ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7894	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 115 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Miljana Nikolic, Miroslav Markicevic, Branko Ružic, Dr Ivan Bauer. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that aside from the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice, I have also called for the session to be attended by Biljana Pavlovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. We continue to work and move on the search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda - PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON THE SIGNING OF THE SIGNIS, RUKOPIS AND PRESIPIS You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Marijan Rističević, Vesna Martinović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djerić, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamović, Riza Halimi, Shaip Camberi, Zoran Babić, Dr Vesna Rakonjac, Neda Jovanovic, Marko Djurisić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović and the Committee for Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Gover. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as from the Government on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word from the promoter? No, I don't. ) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Vesna Martinovic together submitted an amendment proposing that the name of members and members of 4a be added after Article 4. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic have jointly tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5 be added after Article 4. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7895	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleagues from the New Democratic Party and I have submitted an amendment to add a new Article 5, i.e. the title above Article 5, the subsequent application of the regulations, and Article 5, which would read: "In the procedure of the signing, manuscripts and prescriptions, the regulations governing the Republic's administrative tax are applied accordingly. The person who, according to the regulations laid down in Article 1 shall be exempt from the obligation to pay the Republic's administrative fee, shall not pay the award for the work of the public notary or the compensation of the costs incurred in relation to the receipt of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. “ Since the applicant’s intrinsicity to verify the signatures, manuscripts and transcripts is fully transferred to the jurisdiction of the public notebooks, we feel that it is also necessary to bring the provisions of this Act into line with the provisions of the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, which in Articles 18 and 19 regulate cases of exemption from the obligation to pay taxes. If it were not explicitly provided that the public notebook in the process of verifying the signatures, manuscripts and transcripts could not charge fees, i.e. that in these cases it would not charge the reward for its work, i.e. the cost of the costs, certain categories of persons would come in a worse position than they are now. Namely, there are currently no fees for over-recipients in cases of application for a employment competition or for documents relating to the exercise of certain social protection rights. This amendment is of particular importance when it comes to the fact that the material of the prize and the cost of the work of the public notebooks is not yet regulated, that there is not yet a single tariff for the work of the public notebooks, except for the tariff which is provided for under the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Court Taxes, and this applies only to the assembly of public records. The bill envisions the entry into force on September 1st, which means that as early as September 1st, these persons would be in a more unfavourable position. The government has rejected this amendment with an explanation that it is not possible to apply the law in the Republic's administrative fees, since the courts carry out the tasks of the signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, and in the process next to the courts, the Law on judicial fees is applied, but it does not say that the corresponding application of the section relating to the overu, but only to the assembly of public records. The government's explanation is of extreme technical character and clearly shows the government's unwillingness to respect the reasons set out in the reasons for our amendment, which is that, by providing for the subsequent application of the rules for certain categories of citizens, the existing situation of things, i.e. that citizens in certain situations when they apply for a job or when they need to exercise certain social protection rights, are exempt from paying taxes. Such solutions are otherwise envisaged because earlier legislators had in mind that it was a sensitive category of the population such as unemployed, students, students, socially endangered persons to be exempt from paying taxes. It's been a case so far. By refusing amendments to this category, they put themselves in a more unfavourable position than they have ever been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7896	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Neđo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7897	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, my intervention relating to Article 5(1) relates to what has already been present in the principle of discussion as a topic of our discussion, which is soloisation or confirmation of a private document. I would also ask that fellow MPs, given that they will surely meet in practice with such phenomena, or situations, to consider this and to analyse this amendment for the next reason. Since the private ID includes a contract that can be made anywhere, specifically at the agency, the law firm, the legal aid service, anyone providing legal assistance, that contract in any case implies checking everything that is the duty of a public notary. The public register is required to verify whether the contract has elements that make it illegal, whether it has elements that involve certain types of abuse, whether it has elements that make it in any way inappropriate to be in legal traffic. This is the obligation of a public notary in accordance with the provisions of the Public Registration Act. If so, then there is absolutely no single reason for any private document drawn up in the form of a contract to be the subject of such an observation by a public notary. This means that the public not only has to be in charge of drawing up such a contract, but it can be any legal aid provider. The public register will carry out those tasks which are exclusively within its jurisdiction within the meaning of the provisions of the Public Note Act, so that it will only confirm after verifying the content of the contract all that is in its jurisdiction and thus draw up a public record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7898	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? (No) The People's MP Dr Vesna Rakonjac has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament Vesna Martinovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted the 8th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7899	Thank you. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members, the purpose of the amendment is to provide for the Law on the Authorisation of Signatures, Scriptures and manuscripts that the identity of the applicant of the document can be determined solely on the basis of the direct insight of the public notary in public documents, because so far this possibility has not been binding in the situation where the applicant of the document, i.e. the public notary, knows the applicant directly and personally. Since it was a common practice that allowed and the possibility of abuse in a situation where someone does not have valid personal documents with the photograph, and that various documents were certified without valid documentation, and based on the personal acquaintance of the applicant with the applicant, we thought that the amendment submitted was necessary to exclude any possibility of certifying anything to persons who did not have valid personal documents with the photograph. As when voting in the elections, no person can vote and receive a ballot if there is no valid document, and given the practice so far, we thought it was necessary to rule out any possibility of certification based on personal familiarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7900	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7901	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on this amendment to be rejected for the reason that the solution is made by the legislator, or the Government, sufficiently precise, compact and comprehensive. So, the question of whether there is any personal relationship, any familiarity between the notebooks and the one whose identity is determined, is not at all a question of this law and cannot be disputed, since it is very precisely stated I am the process of identifying the identity, which is a personal document or an official document with a photo. In case there is no possibility, the only alternative is two witnesses, so personal acquaintance is not treated in law. On the contrary, it is covered as anything that does not fall into definition and thus is not an option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7902	Thank you, Dr. Orlic. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7903	The situation with witnesses of identity is the same as with the applicant of the I.D. It's not illegal to verify on the basis of personal acquaintances. They are allowed by the applicable law, but they have taken so much power and so much on the counters both in courts and in the municipal authorities of the administration used the opportunities of personal acquaintance that the amendment actually wanted to exclude the possibility of any certification and confirmation of identity based on personal knowledge. So, this is in terms of more precise formulation and exclusion of the possibility of certification based on personal acquaintance, and yet given the practice of the previous practice where personal documents are in a situation where the notifier personally knows any applicant of the document, any witnesses of the identity, these documents did not even ask for an insight, so there was an overa or confirmation of identity and by those persons who did not have valid personal documents with the photograph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7904	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7905	Thank you. I will also use the time of the parliamentary group after two minutes are exhausted for the proposed amendment. The amendment refers to Article 10 which has a rubrum – the legal consequences of the inability to prove identity. Article 10 of the proposed text has two positions. The first is: ‘If the applicant cannot prove his identity in the manner provided for by law, the public notebook refuses to verify the correctness’. That attitude is impeccable because it really provides legal certainty. However, the second view is extremely problematic, and it reads: “The public notary refuses to verify the correctness, although after taking into account the official document, that is, after hearing the witnesses of the identity, he did not gain confidence that the applicant of the credential is the person for which it is issued. ” So the second view also says that if the law provides for a process to determine identity, the public notebook did not gain confidence that it was really about that person. Our proposal, colleagues Borislav Stefanovic and mine, is to delete this position because erasing this attitude prevents abuse by a public notary in case he has not gained confidence. In addition to being problematic in itself, what is the process of obtaining the conviction of a public notary and not having it in this law or otherwise, and what if the public notary has acquired quite the wrong confidence? What happens to the rights of persons who have passed the legally established identity procedure, but have come to the public record's confidence that this person is not yet the person to be betrayed? It is not the first time that, in our opinion and in the members of the law under the covers that this is such legal certainty, because it is obvious that authorities for people who cannot in any way have powers, because a public notary cannot gain confidence if it has documentation in front of it to which it is bound by law. I'll remind you, that's how we asked it to be deleted from Article 179. The law on the work of grounds of dismissal that the employer finds that the employee has committed a crime in connection with the work, and that no criminal proceedings have been initiated, no investigation has been brought, and thus the employer puts himself in the role of the person who assesses whether the crime has been committed or not. I have no doubt that there will also be an idea here that the amendment should be rejected by fellow MPs. The minister has already made that clear, or government, by refusing to accept our amendment on the grounds that the bill's solution is more comprehensive and contributes to greater legal certainty. How does the position under which a public notary is given contribute to greater legal certainty? It is also said in the explanation, given that the provision of Article 9 is paragraph 1. The Public Note Act stipulates that a public notary is required to carry out its activities in accordance with the rules and principles of security and honesty, and that it is responsible for its work in accordance with this law. By eradicating this provision, as proposed in the amendment, it would question both legal certainty and the above-mentioned principle directly related to the behaviour of the public notary. So, the government tells me that if I delete the provision, i.e. I suggest that I delete the provision that the public notary cannot, on the basis of the personal assurance that he has obtained to refuse to accept the identity of the person, that it is greater legal certainty and that he is obliged to do so in accordance with the principles of security and honesty and, consequently, that, if he does not act in such a way, he will already fall under the criminal provisions of this same law in case he is not safe and fair. That's another example, as well as the one I mentioned about the Labour Act, which is completely wrong from my point of view. Like where an employer is given the status of someone who assesses the crime, both here and in health care, as we talked yesterday, and in education. We are not the center of citizens, we are not the center of the person who has access to the notebook, but we believe with legal certainty that the notebook has the right to be confident and then has the right to act, and to act in accordance with Article 9 which obliges it to be safe and honest. What will happen to a citizen who said safe and honest – I went through the procedure, and then he came across a notebook that says – I have confidence that you are not the one? I want Article 10(2) never to be applied, because I know that if it is misapplicated and misused, there will be nothing, but that there will be people who approach their business needs to public records who can have problems because of this. That's why these two examples of me, the employer that counts 179. The labour law gives the right to assess that the employee has committed a criminal offence and therefore needs to be fired, a health debate yesterday when we had, where only doctors are being talked about and the patient should be the center of what we do, well, here and here. It's not the center of this law. It's a public notebook. There are members here who describe his rights and obligations, but the center of every law we pass in the Assembly should be a citizen who addresses any institution in the state. There is a citizen here in the absence of legal certainty and I am sorry that the government has rejected this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7906	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. According to the amendment, MP Vladimir Djukanovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7907	Thank you, Your Honor. I wasn't even thinking about answering today, but I just have to comment on this, because I don't agree with what my dear colleague said. I want to commend the Ministry for just bringing this one attitude. People have to understand the Institute of Public Note. It's something that might be most important in the judiciary. That's how we defined ourselves. The public notebook is the one that goes in front of the state, in front of the citizens, and he has to check absolutely everything. What would the people say? And blood cells. You can't play with the fact that you've got a public notebook that's cutting something off, because it represents a state. I agree that a citizen must be in the epicenter of everything, but the state must first of all be in the epicenter of everything, and therefore protect the citizens. I'd like to ask you, and a team before you've submitted an amendment that derivates all of this, that you still agree on what you want essentially from this law, and you, Mr. Minister and the people who brought this one attitude, I really want to commend because this is a legal certainty, and I think it gives the notebooks a much greater responsibility in the work. This is really commendable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7908	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The People's MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7909	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. With endless gratitude for remarks from fellow MPs, because he confirmed the basic reasons for which we submit amendments. State - these are citizens living in the country. It's not a government state, it's not a state minister, it's not a state National Assembly, it's not a president. It's the state that lives in the state of Serbia. When we say that we want both state and citizen to be epicenters, it's about the language sauce seen in the members of this law. The state is one and the government is another. My amendments do not endanger the support of the government in this country. On the contrary, but it endangers this view of the world that it is a public record of the state and that it goes in front of the citizen and that he needs to check everything. I don't want to bother you reading the entire text of the law one more time. This is about the fact that the public notary who has checked everything gives an additional right that he has the personal confidence that this citizen, who is in fact the center of all our laws and our work, is not yet the person to be betrayed. My question, which was left without an answer and in the comment of my colleague Djukanovic, is – and what if the public notary has acquired mistrust? What kind of mechanisms does a citizen have in front of him who was wronged by a public notary? What public record was wrong for who knows what reasons, perhaps without any intention, simply, respecting and believing that he was honest and saving, but did not approach the job that made the citizen come before him because he gained personal confidence that the citizen was not the one for whom he was betrayed? This is a serious topic for dialogue, because we see completely different what it is that has to be a center, really the only center, not two centres, because if you have two centers, it's an ellipse and it's not right, so what is the center of all our regulations and what is the reason we submit to the amendments, and what is the reason why we enter the controversy? It's the interest of anyone who lives in Serbia. Interested in its or its rights, whatever its name is, being guaranteed and respected by all those who, on behalf of these same citizens, represent a state in institutions, from the president of the state, the Government, the Assembly, to courts, to public notebooks. If we are going to put public notebooks with this attitude that he should go ahead of everyone and count blood cells, I'm afraid that we will only confirm the attitude that I see in some members of the law, that there is a deep misunderstanding about what a truly modern state administration is, what is really a way for institutions to serve a citizen and why everyone who lives in Serbia must be the center of our interest, with observations that all those who serve him must have very clearly defined part-time work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7910	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. For his word, he responded according to the amendment, using the time of the parliamentary group, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7911	Just to find out that I was absolutely right, because just now a short-time distinguished colleague pointed out something where she deeply disagreed with what she voted for in 2011. You gave the Law on Public Registration public records of that kind to the public. What, say, if the public record finds out the citizen forged the document? I'm sorry, but he's entitled to an additional check. That's exactly what gives legal certainty to citizens, who are and who make up the state. If you already have such remarks, you should have made it in 2011. Now the law is passed. Now we're simply coordinating something that you brought in 2011. I think this attitude is something to protect the citizens, and thus protect the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7912	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7913	When read carefully, it uses and helps a lot, so it prevents you from making mistakes with such a clear confidence that you are right. The law on public notebooks was passed in 2010, amendments and additions in 2011, delaying the deadline. I would be happy to answer to the MP why I voted in favour of this law. Because the Institute of Public Note needed and should be introduced into Serbia's legal system, but this has nothing to do with the amendment. They're going to repeat once again what the amendment is about. Therefore, the amendment requires that any possibility be removed that the public notebook and after a legal procedure has been implemented to determine the identity of the person allow itself to have personal confidence that that person is not the person for which it is issued. Even if I accept that, for my own reasons, the legislator thinks it should, there is no answer to the question – what is happening to the citizen around whom the public notary has sinned or acquired mistrust? We're human, we're wrong. Here, there was a mistake here too. It's totally natural. So, 2010, 2011, the law was suspended until February 2013, and so on. This is a synchronization. These mistakes are fine, more or less. What happens if you have an important job with a notebook? You're the one you're turning yourself in. You pass the process of identifying the identity, but the notary says – based on Article 10, Article 2, or on how it will be in the consolidated text of the law, the number and the attitude, I believe that you are not the person for which you are being betrayed. What can a face like that do? That's my application to the Minister for Answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7914	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7915	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the distinguished predecessor said, we are men and we sin, the law was not passed in 2010. The law was passed at the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly on 5 May 2011, and then the President of the Republic signed it on 9 May on Victory Day 2011, and the law was amended and completed in 2012 by "The Official Messenger", 85/2013, "The Official Messenger" 19 and 2014. ‘Official messenger’ 55. So it's not 2010, it's 2011. As for the answer, you know, listening to the debate has elements, it is right- the centre of the modern state are citizens and we fully agree on that. If two persons come to sign a real estate purchase contract, it is the public notebook that will answer both professionally and materially for any lack of that contract and raises doubts about the information contained in the personal documents. If you're looking from an ordinary man's corner, what would a public notary, say, miss to collect a reward of twenty thousand dinars? I'm sorry, as I've listened to you very carefully, let me speak to you. So it's a public notebook that will guarantee the correctness of it. As soon as it guarantees the correctness of it, it must take care literally of all aspects. What should we do in case a person who has forged IDs appears to us, or whose credibility is doubtful? You must leave a public record of opportunity, to that public notary who is obliged to do his job in a safe and fair manner, and that by doing his job he must not refuse the party that has come. So that's one of the principles of the public-book system. He must not refuse the party, but there must be a reason why he is allowed to do so as an exception. Imagine, a person with the power of attorney showing up to do some legal work. For example, these are cases in public records in the world, especially where the youth is as active as the work. It was becoming 70 years ago, but it's a legal and time vacuum so big that we can only talk about it as a historical category. Someone else in Srem, Banat, Backo, one of ours who came from Dalmatia or Slavonia remembers what a notary or notary is, but there is still no strong consciousness that should be rooted for years in front of us. A person who has power of attorney, the power of attorney who has been betrayed by the alleged owner of the estate, the power of attorney he has given him elsewhere. For example, he gave him power of attorney on 29 August 2014 and this power of attorney was approved in court. He was certified by a judicial authority who is not a graduate lawyer, who graduated from high school, who confirmed this power of attorney, and now comes a second person with power of attorney who has not been issued by a public notary and wants to sell the property that is owned by him, or owned by the owner. Let the public notebook doubt that because it is the conclusion of a very serious legal business. So the right to tell you I doubt there will be more than 0.1% of the cases in which they will reach for the application of this provision, but it must exist. Given that we, unfortunately, still have several thousand, I remember when I was the competent minister of affairs and state administration, that we had about six thousand of our citizens who didn't have any personal documents, so we have such a category of persons in our legal system, I am convinced that by continuing what we started with the reforms as a few years ago, that this number of persons would be reduced to a significant, significantly smaller level, one-digit level if they were to be completely eradicated. But such faces exist. A public notebook that corresponds both professionally and materially to do its job must have a legitimate basis to refuse such a thing and far away from someone wanting to deny their rights. Be careful, the citizen will be able to finish with every public notebook in Serbia when it comes to these simple certificates. Here the principle that he is solely in charge because he covers the area of a particular basic court and for the overes that could, for example, be a copy of someone's diploma... The public notebook's interest is to do its job. But if we say that the basic principle of his act is security and honesty, that he cannot refuse the party, it is a disciplinary violation. So if he for no reason refused the party, he will disciplinaryly answer for it. I think, as much as the reasons you've given are correct, the angle of view doesn't stand. It's not a concept of this or the Law of Public Records that calls upon the National Assembly to bring it in. I think this provision is good. I must confess to you by reading the amendments this was an amendment that I said at the first ball, Mr. Cosic and I talked about, to accept. However, when I entered into the essence, in the sense of that attitude, I eventually changed my mind and said it was better to remain in the law. But we had an initial view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7916	The People's MP Nedjo Jovanovic reported on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7917	Thank you, Chairman. I'll use the MP's time. According to this amendment, with respect for the caution that honourable Member Gordana Komic points out, I just need to draw attention to two facts that any of us here can't doubt. First, all the work done by the public notebook has the power of the empire, which means in some way the judicial authorities. Why? Because we transferred a good part of the jurisdiction from the court to the public records. We have transferred almost complete outsider material from the court to the jurisdiction of public notebooks, which means that every decision and every action taken by a public notary has the power of a court decision or the power of the nameperium. It is not at all disputed that in practice he can appear and make a mistake and that this error is going to the party's harm. If the party who reported to the notary is damaged, the notary is indeed in line with the provisions of the Public Note Act with several types of responsibility. One is disciplinary within the framework of public records. The second is material for damages caused by a party being damaged by the public register. The third can be possibly both criminal and criminal. In any event, the right or disposition of a party which is damaged to protect its interest in an appropriate procedure. In no case can we tie our additional hands to the public notary in terms of the exercise of its rights and the powers given to it by the provisions of the Law on Public Records. I therefore truly believe that regardless of the caution shown by this amendment that the amendment may be something that would be as excessive and unnecessary as intervention in this part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7918	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? Yeah. ) National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I signed up a little earlier, but it doesn't matter. The minister said about what I was about to say. There is a verse of Bora Čorba, which is about to read – today every cattle can obtain two witnesses. It's a quote, and you can't punish me. It is possible that the person who comes to verify the contract, some authority may bring in two credible witnesses, who can buy for a few bottles of beer, and thus establish his identity that can be false. Based on this false identity, he can verify a contract, do a very harmful job for some other citizens, make certain consequences happen. If a public notary or a person who verifys it has the knowledge that this person is not a person with an identity who claims, if visually in contact with two witnesses, it can be seen that it can be about an identity that is determined in a way that two witnesses are being bribed, in a way that I have already described or in a slightly more expensive way, if it is about persons who are on the alert for some reason, if they need proper documents and powers, if in such a way a document is certified, if that person wishes to translate some children through the border in the human trade, to resell children, if a public notary who has a particular responsibility or a person who confirms the signatures determines that the matter is in what I was talking about, in that case he should be left with the possibility that he refuses to verify such type of document. Also, on the issue of a document can come to the conviction of one who confirms the signatures, there may be a suspicion that a particular document can be forged, that it can be issued in the Republic of Croatia, that it can be a Legion, that it can be anyone, that it is a completely different person, and that the document that wants to prove its identity that it actually proves by this document some other identity that does not correspond to the right. In such cases, it should be left to the public not to verify such a document, because in the event that it is verified, then the subsequent actions are very long-term, so some criminal responsibility, questioning sometimes a year, sometimes two, sometimes three, and we don't know what would happen to the annulment of the document that the public notary has confirmed, despite the suspicions I raised. Otherwise, I agree with previous speakers that the state is not a government, that the state is not a government, that the state is not a congregation building. I just wish that at a time when this Law on Public Records was passed in 2011, that it was the same belief of my previous speakers, who were now stressing it, had in the matter of Boris Tadic, because at that moment he was both state and party and military and government, he was all, but still, I welcome that someone came up later to admit that the president was not a state, that the government was not a state, as it was, that the people were states and that the state was a community of united people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7920	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Just one request for you to try to respect this high home when using some words and expressions in this high house. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7921	I'm using the time of my authorised representative. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for warning the previous speaker because my colleague received a warning about the words "in the car" and you heard this now. No matter what the quote of a man is, I wouldn't really comment on it, under every level, but especially beneath each level is something like that in the Serbian Parliament. I think we'll try some things here to put together some concise information and a request to the minister. Minister, we're aware, we heard your position. He is well-conceived, contentable, and I would say legally correct, but I also ask you to respect what the opposition is asking through this amendment. Taking the Institute of Convictions from the case law, from the authority of the courts in our Republic, we have not given at all the protection of the interested party. So, on the one hand, you have a public record that essentially has the authority of investigators, detectives and police inspectors, and on the other hand you have a citizen who has to go through a trial, he has to go through the proper procedure himself, and he himself has to go through a otherwise difficult, difficult and slow procedure in front of our court. I ask you to make an effort, because this institute, as it is contained in Croatia or Slovenia, has shown that very much abuse and bad things are created in their legal order, an awful lot. There's a lot of corruption, there's a lot of opportunities for someone with a public notebook to make a deal to prevent a certain person in this way from, say, allowing some deadlines to expire, because they won't be able to verify that correction. I ask you, however, to see that life is what disproves you, that life is the one that imposes incredible situations, that our life, especially legal and judicial life, is abundant in cases of vengefulness, slowness, corruption and everything else that we have witnessed for years. Please accept this amendment, however, because it allows one arbitration, completely volunteering, if you will, to get the set set out of our legal order. This man, this way, I mean the public notebook, gets incredible powers. He gets the opportunity, as his colleague described well with blood cells and the rest, he can do it himself, and a citizen who is not legally unprotected, but it is a burden on him to do so and to go through the odyssey of our legal procedures, findings and everything else, which you are very aware of seems to me. So, please, let us put a citizen on at least equal terms with a man who is part of a legal and public order and who in this way becomes an investigator, becomes a man who himself decides and becomes a man who, by simple action, if you will, can, by moving a small finger on a man's hand, throw a man into a spinning Serbian judiciary that he cannot get out of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7922	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7923	Thank you. My amendment is somehow related logically to the previous discussion on the amendment of counterpart Gordana Komic. Respecting all that we have heard in the previous debate, while respecting the need and the real possibility that in some situations a public notary must refuse to perform an overa, if he is so convinced of the correctness of his conviction, then I suggest that he adopt a legal act on the rejection of the certificate. We can't, what we talked about in the previous debate, that applicant of the I.D. who's talking to the public notary just leaves an estimate, to the arbitrary assessment of the notebook whether it's something for the overa or not. If the public notary has the confidence that something should not be verified, he should bring an act to which the applicant requests must have the right to appeal. We can't leave it unprotected in the legal system and leave it to the self-will of the public notebook and assess whether something meets or doesn't meet the requirements of the overa. In addition to what my amendment is about, and the Law on Administrative Procedure, the clause on the certificate is a kind of certificate issued by a public notary within the meaning of the Law on Administrative Procedure. If, for some reason, the public notary considers justified, regardless of whether they are indeed justified, it is then, within the meaning of the Administrative Procedure Act, obliged to adopt an act rejecting the certificate to which the applicant is required, to have the right to appeal. On the other hand, on the basis of which the applicant will request in some disciplinary procedure against the public register of court etc. prove he's been denied an overa? If there is no act of refusal of the certificate hardly at all able to prove and find witnesses who would be able, they have the courage and courage to testify against, as one of the previous speakers said, the most important foundation in the judiciary, which is a public notary. I wouldn't rely very much on whether it's worth it to a public notary or whether it's worth it to verify something. I think it's very correct to make a public notary, that if he estimated that something doesn't meet the conditions for the overa, that it's in writing, in the form of a legal act on which there's the possibility of an appeal to prove it. I'm very sorry that the government didn't accept such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7924	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric jointly submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. I call upon Mr. Minister to plead under this amendment. Yes, but you should formally accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7925	Dear Chairman, I think it's a technical mistake. The government, in its opinion delivered, accepted the amendment and thus became an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7926	I'm sorry, sir, there's been a mistake here in the service. I'm sorry, it's okay. According to the amendment, the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7927	Thank you. I understand that the amendment is not accepted, and I understand that the electronic unit is not working, but, I mean, still... I wanted to use two minutes per amendment to Article 11, but we didn't get it all in the last second of the application and the chairman, so I don't have the right to use it anymore, and this time I'm using to explain is from the MP's group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7928	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Mr Aleksandar Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national message, Vesna Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7929	Thank you. So, as with the previous amendment, I think it is important to oblige the public notary to adopt an act of refusal in all these cases prescribed by law as legal grounds for refusing the certificate. Not only does this require legal logic and protection of citizens who address the public notary, it also requires the Law on administrative procedure which states that the certification clause has the treatment of the certificate within the meaning of the Administrative Procedure Act and that the Authority which refuses to issue the certificate should adopt an act stating, inter alia, the reasons for the refusal of the certificate, the evidence on which it has established that there are grounds for refusal, as well as a legal lesson on whom, within the time limit of time, the applicant may address for the protection of his or her right to cover. I think the rejection of such an amendment is very harmful. Not only for the work of public notaries but, above all, because of citizens who will address public notaries and risk the possibility of being orally informed that their request for a certificate will be rejected, without having any written evidence that they have addressed the public notary that they have assessed that the conditions for the overu are not met and that they do not have the possibility to pursue the protection of their rights in the further appeal procedure. I who say I am sorry that the government has not accepted this amendment despite these very rational reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7930	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. On the basis of Article 12 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure were submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I call upon Mr. Minister to plead on this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7931	The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7932	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Article 12 by the MP Dr Vesna Rakonjac. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment with a correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7933	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, was not given an answer in the explanation why the word “weakness” was not replaced by the word “blindness”. Weaknesses can read the document, blind people can't. So it specifically referred to this part of the story, and the appropriate electronic form represents the text in the "word". So, the undersighted, or blind persons have software systems in their computers, and it's only necessary for the public notebook to e-mail them text in "Ward" or to have that same text on a flash drive, or on CDs. So it's this electronic form. I don't think any more material costs would have caused public records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7934	Thank you, Mrs. Rakonjac. Members of the 14th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7935	Thank you. Article 14 on which colleagues Borislav Stefanovic, co-worker Vesna Martinovic and I submitted the amendment is a member who defines the certification of the blank signature. That member's got three bets. The first point is that the confirmation of the blank signature is not allowed and that is the default member and we believe that it should remain as the position in Article 14. However, the other two attitudes are the subject of our amendment, and we suggest that they be deleted because they represent a space for abuse. Experiences from the countries of the first enlargement of the EU that introduced public literature, so, eight to ten years before us, and show that the quality criteria of what public literature had in Slovenia, Croatia and other countries were precisely the attitudes of this kind that practically created a space for corruption. Therefore, in the proposed law test, the other two positions are – extremely, the public notebook can verify the signature of a document whose individual parts are not filled if the applicant can provide indicative information on how these parts should be printed and if it proves that there are important reasons for certifying the signature before the document is fully completed. The final position in three points. In the signing certification clause, the public notebook specifically indicates – one, which parts of the document were not filled in at the time of the confirmation of the signature. Two, indicative data provided by the applicant of the document on how these parts of the document should be filled in. Three, the reasons why the signature was certified on a partially filled credential. The process that takes place in verifying the blank signature is a very similar process to that of Article 10, which we asked to delete. In the previous case, it was the belief of a public notary, and here the prices are important reasons for the applicant's application and then, of course, the public notary has to agree that these are important reasons and to approach the certification of the blank signature in one of these three cases. Is it possible that this is exactly the kind of attitude in the members who need to precisely specify the responsibilities of the handling of the public notebook and the parties who approach it, is the space for corruption, the space for unclear application of the law, and is the answer again - and what if the party asks to access the certification of the blank signature under these conditions, and the notary says that it does not consider the relevant reasons that the party states really important? Then again, we have a disciplinary application or in procedures initiated by a citizen. Understanding the full life and the fact that there are situations where there are simply no conditions can be met, we felt that, regardless of which, in the terms of the law, there could not be such definitions and actions, because with full awareness that one part of what we mean by the judge as a conviction of the judge, as the judge's behaviour, as the responsibility of a part of it being passed on to public notebooks, therefore, with a lot of understanding of it here, you have here that the party and the public notary will practically negotiate whether or not there are important reasons to still be a confirmation of the blank signature. I hope that it will never or will never, fully in accordance with the law, be applied this position and that we will not allow ourselves to repeat the bad experiences that others have had when it comes to the blank signature or the free conviction of public notebooks. The power of the public notebook is very similar to the power of the judge and very different because for the power of the judge exist because of the time in which institutions exist and the stalking routes through institutions where you can clearly see the abuse of that power. Public records like the sector that's supposed to start working tomorrow at 9pm is something we're just going to learn about how to prevent the abuse of power given to them and again I'm saying it from the perspective of a citizen who's coming for a favor that he's going to pay to a public notary or a blank signature has or a blank signature doesn't have. This is how individual conditions are stated, with important reasons agreed by the notary and party, as the party cites important reasons for not being able to have a good application, we are confident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7936	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The People's MPs Vesna Martinovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7937	Thank you. Therefore, the above clause lists all of the data which is necessary to indicate exactly when and where the overa was carried out. I think it is very important that, in addition to these data which are otherwise provided for by the bill, the place where the prescribed document is located, whether the public notary has made direct insight into it, whether the applicant has submitted the application for an overa to an audit or if the document is located elsewhere. And seeing as that's very unusual, you think it's unusual, it's usually something that's in force in the current rule of authority, and I don't know why something that's proved to be very good and useful when the manuscript is certified has changed since then, it's also left out from the proposed law when it's not just the point of who, when and where it's put together the correct thing, the original whose copy is being verified, but also where it's at the moment. Also, I regret why this amendment has not been adopted, and the government has not made an effort to convince us by reason of the basics of the rejection of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7938	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The title above Article 29 and Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Enis Imamovic, please sign in. Here you go. You're not in the system, I can't give you my word, try the technical service to give you a new card, so please report to another amendment. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7939	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and I have submitted an amendment to Article 29 relating to cases where the basic courts and municipal administrations retain jurisdiction over the tasks of the Authority and our amendment consists of proposing that Article 2 be changed and Articles 3 and 4 be deleted. Article 2. We propose that changes be made in the sense that basic courts, i.e. municipal administrations, can carry out tasks of certification, signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, as confidential transactions by 1 March 2015, as appropriate to the application of the provisions of this law and the law governing public notary activity. We have proposed such an amendment for the reason that we can allow a copy of the signatures, transcripts and manuscripts to be carried out in both primary courts and municipal administrations and further until 1 March in all cities and municipalities, regardless of whether they are appointed, appointed public notebook or not in those cities and municipalities. This, above all, is for the purpose of leaving one period while the public notebooks are unaccompanied, because we think it will not be possible to move immediately from September 1st to full capacity to work and meet all the needs of citizens for these jobs. However, the government rejected this amendment with an explanation given and in an explanation of the refusal of counterpart Nedja Jovanovic's amendments and says it does not accept the solution set out in the draft law for more purpose. We believe that, above all, this argument of the government is not enough because it does not specify why it is more meaningful, but rather a flat-rate assessment. Secondly, we believe that, as with the previous amendment, the government, which I was talking about where there was not enough hearing for sensitive categories, unemployed, students, students, and in this case there is not enough hearing that there will be legal congestion and that citizens will also be prevented from exercising their rights in a certain period until public notebooks are stalking themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7940	Thank you. People's MP Enis Imamovic called for the word. I'm not gonna take these two minutes away from you after you've had the rights to the previous amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7941	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, if there is any need, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, honourable ministers, respecting the importance of introducing public records into the domestic legal system, which is also another important step of our country towards the EU, we said we would support this bill, which is also an important precondition and important new judicial profession that should start working in Serbia as of tomorrow. The establishment of notaries should contribute to greater legal certainty, investment security, transport of goods, services and competitiveness of the economy. The bill itself and its contents are not very controversial. The law is not ideal and should pay attention to the various obstacles that can stand in the way of effective application of this law that experience teaches us. It is precisely the reason for the submission of this amendment that public notebooks, similar nature and the similar complexity of the work to be done, in some cases for objective reasons will not be able to adequately place themselves at the disposal of political entities interested in participating in the elections or parties in the process of establishment. One such situation is insufficient, i.e. an inadequate number of public records. This amendment provided that support for the electoral list, i.e. the parties to the establishment, in addition to the public notebooks, should also be the primary court, i.e. the city and municipal administration. If we take into account the scope of the work and the obligation to comply with the deadlines prescribed by the electoral legislation, we come to the conclusion that notaries will not be able to meet the needs of political entities and would particularly address this problem through an insufficient number of public notaries designated for municipalities and cities in Sandzak. I want to talk here about the needs of the citizens who chose us here and whose needs we represent here. So, even when we talk about applying this law, we have to go back to the ones that will mostly apply, i.e. to public notebooks. Namely, when determining the number of notaries, cities in Sandzak are not treated under the same conditions as some other cities in other parts of Serbia. I'll take an example of the New Market. Many cities and municipalities that have fewer inhabitants than Novi Pazar have received the same or more notaries, although New Pazar needs are actually far greater. Now I won't list the names of these cities, it wouldn't be fair to make that kind of partnership between cities. As a regional and minority party on this issue, we clearly draw attention to the fact that Bosniaks live in Sandzak whose constitution guarantees the right to participate in public affairs under the same conditions as all citizens. In any case, we are trying to improve in this amendment in a practical way the proposal for this important European law and in principle we have said, I repeat now, that we will support this bill because of its importance for the whole system, for the citizens, for the economy, for the legal, property security, and also for the European integration of our country. Therefore, Minister, I urge you to reconsider this amendment and I call on your colleagues to support this amendment in the voting day that we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7942	Thank you, Mr. Imamovic. Prime Minister Nikola Selakovic spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7943	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to clarify briefly in two minutes one fact that may not be completely clear. Therefore, a provisional regulation has been adopted on the number of public notebooks, i.e. the identification of public records. That rule and the call for competition was according to the actual state of things on the ground. At the time when the competition was called, there was only one candidate from the territory of Novi Pazar, who had passed the same. It was completely unsatisfactory to sign up, say, a contest for three public places, because then we'd get into a situation that I just don't believe would appeal to a respected predecessor. Imagine then someone from Belgrade signing up to be a public notary in Novi Pazar, and then I realize that the established complaint would be – wait, I guess the law should also take into account the national structure of the population in the area of the court for which the public register is elected. Thank God, we got two candidates. In one of the next competitions, I am convinced that there will be a competition and another of the places in Novi Pazar, Tutin, Sjelica, Prijepolje and that people will have opportunities to compete, but far from being discriminated here. Not at all. I'd even be too pleased if we had candidates in New Market who were interested in being executors, but we don't have them. It's the highest court in which there is no executioner. As regards the specific amendments you have submitted, I personally believe that, especially after the application of the electoral laws, the Law on Public Registration, these types of overa concerning the registration of political parties, i.e. the certification of signatures for participation in the elections, support for the candidate, making statements on acceptance of the candidacy, that a special tariff number should be established in which a fixed, as so far the competent minister should set the price. She's 50 dinars. I do not see at all why this price would be changed, but through a special tariff number in the tariffs Regulation, i.e. fees and rewards for the work of public notebooks, to meet this particular purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7944	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's MP, Slobodan Homen, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7945	I'll use the MP's time. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, we come to what was the essence of the debate when we talked about the law in principle. We simply don't understand what the haste to do overnight, or the question is, are we going to have all night, from the jurisdiction of the courts to the jurisdiction of the public notebooks? We are talking about the application of this law, if voted today, I suppose today will be a day to vote, that without publishing in the "Official Messenger" tomorrow they will start working. The question arises why such a haste and why do we have to do it within 12 hours, especially given that this is a completely new institution that didn't exist? Certain public notebooks have been selected whose qualities we can doubt and believe or not believe were political influence in the election. The only thing that will show their quality is a time in which they will show whether they know how to do this job or not. It can't be done overnight. It would also be very logical in the interests of the minister himself, who will ultimately be responsible if this system fails to function, is that parallel application of the regulations, i.e. the possibility of certification in courts and in the public notebook by March 01st. Nor will public notebooks impoverish, if it is not until March 1st, or if it is from tomorrow and not from March 01st. I think it's simply this transitional period in the interest of all citizens. We are witnessing that the previous days have been a great mess and a lot of traffic across all courts, where people have been trying to verify any kind of document for a simple reason because whenever you introduce a new institution, it's normal for citizens not to believe it's going to work. On the other hand, citizens think it will be far more expensive, and the fact is that it will be more expensive than ever, even if the amount of value added tax, which was spoken of by the minister, which will be paid into the state budget and will be financed by the state, although it is far less than it has been budgeted on the basis of the fees, but we leave it all aside. The bottom line is that there is no reason for us to, on the other hand, introduce an institution that is certainly good, which is certainly needed for Serbia, but leave one decent period to work, and in this sense, I ask you to vote today on these amendments, which propose to postpone the deadline on March 1st and be in the interest of this Assembly that passed this law and the minister of justice and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7946	Thank you, Mr. Homen. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 29th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, by amendment, wanted to fix this law and that the courts, municipal administrations, could continue to confirm the signatures concerning the establishment of political parties, related to presidential, parliamentary, regional elections, local elections, as well as elections for local communities. The government has rejected this amendment of mine and the amendment of some of my colleagues, and I'm afraid she's made a mistake. Given the number of public notebooks, which are 25,000, or citizens, given that there may be no public record at all in some environments, I wonder how to verify, say, signatures to support the electoral lists if the local community councils are called together if they are local, regional, city, republican and presidential elections? I wonder if public notebooks, and they won't be all over the space, can at all confirm the signatures of political parties, or the applicant of the electoral lists? The same is true of political parties when they are founded. Not to mention the fees that can be varied, I believe that it will remain a tariff number, that it will remain 50 dinars. For example, elections for local community councils were not burdened somewhere, municipalities made decisions not to charge such signatures. In this case, it will also become an additional cost for those who are running. By the way, it is almost amazing that so far the fees for the presidential elections have cost 50 dinars per statement, for parliamentary 50 dinars, and for some local elections, for example. In India, a charge of 300 dinars per signature. If you're running for community council, you were obliged to attach 30 signatures and add 9,000 dinars. It's proof that these fees can be diverse. I'm surprised this amendment of mine was rejected, since we're all going to the polls. Given the fact that when we reregistered political parties, we had the promise of the then government, which represented the state, that in the future, registered with the corresponding number of signatures, they would no longer make any more statements on the support of certain electoral lists. It is necessary to accept this amendment or to amend the electoral laws and to provide that the political parties, which were registered in the register, minority with a thousand and some signatures, majority with 10,000 and more signatures, as well as that the promise made by the government, which was then a state, are fulfilled and that political parties are no longer making noises in front of public records, that simply registered political parties, which are making financial reports, all and all sorts of things, are free to collect signatures in the future, because this is on the one hand the cost, and on the other hand we are creating incredible crowds and we are bringing in maltenes, we are pulling voters away from each other, dragging them onto the appropriate counters to confirm their statements that they support the party's candidacy, i.e.e. election lists already proposed by the party that already has ten and more of their certified signature signatures, which is due to that support and registration. That's what it was said back then. But due to the change of government, never, what was agreed between political parties has been fulfilled. So, the signatures are still coming together. They are now gathering for local elections in the authorities of the municipal administration. Only for parliamentary and presidential elections are the courts. If we leave all this to the public notebooks, we'll make an unprecedented fuss and I think there may be certain abuses in the election. For these reasons, I have proposed this amendment and I will vote for it, and on my fellow Members everything is left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7948	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7949	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. I think I have to agree with this proposal. I think it's very bad that the government turned down this amendment. I believe that, not only will there be abuses and crowds, not only will there be financial problems and the inability to collect signatures for each election cycle, we will face a whole new structure of people who are now part of our public and legal order, and who are placed in a disputable way, not to be rude, as political parties and representatives of citizens and groups of citizens. So anyone interested in being part of an election process with one, until now, an unprecedented situation, which is that in some places, municipalities and cities of Serbia, people are literally pushing at the door of that man, who has been given the authority to decide everything in that segment, as they report to us, I don't know if it's true, because he's close to the authorities and we're afraid that this will lead to abuse. In the courts we had confidence, and in this now we still need citizens' trust to acquire a practice that will confirm that trust. If this practice is set up like this, we'll have notebooks that will collect signatures, take money for it, and then it'll be valid documents. It's the first time something like this has happened. I am glad that my colleague noticed it and it is something that will certainly cause problems when we know that in some smaller municipalities in Serbia, it is not only difficult to collect signatures because of the lack of money people need to hand over, but also because there is a pre-election situation very heated, tense, often on the edge of incidents, as we have had the opportunity to see in Majdanpek and as we have seen in some previous cases. I think something like this can lead to local impatience because these people all know each other. When I call some people in a certain municipality and ask, "Who is this newly appointed notebook?" They tell me things that are not for the congregation. I know the minister is aware of that, because he's not personally responsible for each of these people and he can't be, but he needs to know what this is going to do in the local environment. In the local community when some priest, tax collector, community president or village farmer, everyone knows everything about him, so they know about these people who they are and what they are. Now everyone needs to come in there and verify their signatures. Do you know what he'll do to them? All power has been given to him in this segment. He's a god and a beating at the bar. It's a good thing you've noticed, not only will there be physical gambling, but I'm afraid there are no worse things, and what I'm witnessing these days. You know, if you're able to organize gynecological checks in a union building in Majdanpek and share school supplies, what do you think you're capable of doing through public notebooks in some environments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7950	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7951	To be fully understood by my colleagues, one of the key reasons for the amendment is that some small environments will have no public records at all. They go to local elections, elections for the councils of local communities, and if election laws and other laws provide for a copy of these signatures of support to certain electoral lists, in such situations they must go to another environment, given that other public notebook laws are provided that the public notary cannot go to the territory of another public notary, or to some territory which is not assigned to it. The public notary's going out on the ground, so far, judicial and municipal administrations have come out to meet political parties, and everyone in their headquarters has been verifying these signatures, so there have been no interactions, or in these hot campaigns when collecting signatures, there have been no mutual contacts between voters belonging to different political parties. Since the law did not well define the conditions under which the verifyer, i.e. the public notifier, has to send the verifyer to the field, it is possible that incidents can lead to physical consequences, or to be dangerous to the health of people. Not all political campaigns have to be civilized, as have been the last few. There may be radicalisation on the political scene, that some environments are not ethnically clean, that there are interethnic tensions among certain voters. For many reasons, I wanted to try to make this amendment to make the government think, to give up collecting signatures for elections especially for political factors already registered for it. At the time of the adoption of the Law on political parties on re-registration, it was made clear, and here I remind my colleagues to plead, because at the time some were MPs in this house, I did not. Other laws were also said to regulate that political parties, registered with 10,000 and more signatures, or minority with 1,000 and more signatures, would not collect voters' signatures to support their election lists. Either the government will do what a previous one has promised or we will have problems at the time of the signing, especially if there are more choices organised at the same time, especially in the environments that do not have public records. It's going to be a problem I wouldn't want to see, and of course no one, not the government itself. This was the reason why I suggested it, since it was not specified that the exit would be mandatory in such situations of a public notary, or persons working for a public notary, given that each environment would not have a notebook, especially those with a slightly smaller population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7952	The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7953	Thank you. With the support of the amendment submitted by fellow MP Marijan Risticevic, and with a request from the minister that if he does not consider that an amendment can be accepted throughout the text, at least until the debate, and in agreement with the MP to accept the amendment of the Committee and with the question, especially in one part of the process that his colleague obviously meant well, and these are elections for national councils. They're scheduled. I know it's not your responsibility as minister of justice, and I also think it's our shared responsibility, so I'd like to get a direct answer to the question because, as we understand colleagues and I, where there can't be any confirmation of all the documents for elections for national councils, which are scheduled for October 26th, that this will be done by the court. Will he or won't he? My question is, on what basis will the court do, in what is as a proposal for this law? Therefore, all applicants of election lists for national councils, if there are no notaries in their municipalities, will then address the ordinary court, so that the process will run smoothly. It is a package of this question, but I think a colleague has quite rightly noticed that while the culture of the notary system, because we are different, I said in the debate when we were working on an extension that in Vojvodina knew which daughter from the Notary House, but it was also a forgotten tradition. So, until it is fully established, no matter what starts tomorrow at 9:00, you should consider, or in the original proposed text, accept the amendment of the MP, or in agreement with the committee of directors. I will support this amendment anyway, because it is written both in good faith and with knowledge of what is really happening in local communities, in municipalities and in local self-governments in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7954	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7955	Thank you. The amendment to Article 31 is to amend the proposed text. In the proposed text of the law, the proposed member speaks of the entry into force of the law and says: "This law enters into force on 1 September 2014. Our proposal is for the text of Article 31 to be: "This law shall enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". In an explanation similar to that of colleagues who have submitted a similar amendment, if not identical, Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korac, Aleksandar Senic and Ninoslav Stojadinovic, it is said that the National Assembly can decide on entry into force earlier than the Constitution of the prescribed deadline, eight days after the day of publication. That's why our amendment is like this – the National Assembly can, but the Government can't. That's what this is about. The draft law sent to the assembly procedure was adopted and sent to the Assembly on 22 August 2014. There is no Rules of Procedure, the Law on Government or the Law on the National Assembly, which, in that bill, the Government can send a document on August 22nd to say that it will enter into force on September 1st. That's what the Parliament decides. Each time it is decided by the congregation and by the Assembly alone. The National Assembly is asked and voted whether it believes that the act discussed should take effect earlier than the Constitution provided for. This can't stand in the law. As much as I have understanding as to the government's message that the law must enter into force on September 1st, the government cannot propose to write it as a member of the law. In addition, the entry into force earlier than the Constitution of a confirmed eight-day period requires an explanation. Here will be an explanation that it has to come into effect because on September 1st they start working notebooks, notary. Notary service leaves tomorrow at 9:00. But it's essentially the government's impeccableness. That can't be an excuse. Since February 2013, we know that on 1 September 2014, and don't think I'm saying this as a criticism of the government. You're going through a lot of my well-meaning in relation to the remarks I've been making on the same subject to ministers I wasn't opposition to but part of the ruling coalition. This is neither the first nor the only hope is that the last time or one of the last times is believed to be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution that the Government adopts the act on 22 August and that the act states that it will enter into force on 1 September. There's no government in that jurisdiction. He also tells me in his explanation that the Assembly has the authority to decide that the law enters into force within eight days. Well, I know that. We're the Assembly. Now we should write to you and do it with this amendment. No government has jurisdiction over such a member of the law. When the time comes when we end the vote both in detail and in principle we, as MPs, will decide on it and this law will come into force. It's not just a seemingly procedural thing. It is a very serious matter when it comes to strict respect for procedures and the National Assembly. So, the unique methodological rules and when it comes to our Rules of Procedure and, hopefully, the Rules of Procedure of the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7956	The MPs, Comic, apologizes. You took advantage of both your time and your MPs. Two plus two. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7957	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7958	Borislav Stefanovic as head of the parliamentary group or authorized. It's the same. One person.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7959	Thank you, Madam President. Before I say anything, I'd like to ask our audio technician who's here to take care of the transmission to do something about the connection between my microphone and my transmission unit because as far as I'm concerned, I'm hearing double. My words are getting stronger. I don't think it's necessary to strengthen them. They're hearing enough all over Serbia. So please. I know you're gonna say you're not into it, but I'm asking someone to look at it because I don't want to be heard twice as often.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7960	I'll deal with it because I'm interested in matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7961	You don't have to personally. This Article 31 contains one of the significant shortcomings that my colleague has already spoken of. This is one of the major problems of this amendment and the addition of the Law because, in a rather cunning way, I would say, it dictates the authority of the National Assembly given to it by the Constitution. Serbia's government in its manner wants everything to happen when it wants not to worry about regulations and rules and some order in this country, and so on. So, as was said just before by distinguished counterpart Komic, the Serbian government has decided this has to be so. Now what the Assembly is going to do, we don't care much, and that's exactly what we're talking about, if you remember, a few days ago here, that someone's trying to make a flow boiler out of the Assembly. That's what you should be worried about, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7962	Just please transform this expression “inverse water heater” into something else. It is very offensive to me to an institution like Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7963	I'm really sorry, as I apologize for the "rightly driving" we've been punished for, but here we have heard today the expressions of the type of "stock", so no one is punished.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7964	Vice President Becic says he's been warned and I'm only three days away for a flow water heater. Just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7965	Believe me, President, I will develop such a vocabulary that you will enjoy every word I say, and yet I will say whatever I want, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7966	It's my pleasure to listen to smart discussions. Just, please, here's to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7967	This amendment has been set up so that we try to restore what is prescribed by the Constitution, to restore what order in application of the regulations. We ask for the law on public records to be applied eight days after its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". It's consistent with what other colleagues have been saying that unfortunately in our courts these few days it's been a big mess, you're aware of that, people have buried those counters, trying to solve it. You published the addresses of public notebooks, you gave this information to the citizens of Serbia. I guarantee you, Minister, the vast majority of citizens who are interested don't know where it is yet. This would reduce some of the problems in the application of the laws that exist. Let this very short period of time get people to adapt, so-so that they get more time, more space, eight days is better than -- it's going to be tomorrow, because we said at the government session. That's outrageous. That's what they're trying to make out of this congregation, one prothromic fluid-heating vessel in order to flow it. See how he can.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7968	That's what I like about this formulation, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7969	So, I wish that wasn't happening at the National Assembly, because that's not what the citizens here have been choosing us for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7970	Thank you. We'll develop a discussion about this, we'll have opportunities. No one's answering for a word. The 31st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7971	Thank you, Madam President. Our amendment is very similar if it is not identical to the previous amendment. I would only support all the arguments given by my colleague, Comic and my colleague Stefanovic, and I would only add that our parliamentary group is the same opinion and that we have therefore submitted an amendment which reads this way: "Article 31 instead of – this law enters into force on 1 September 2014, this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". I would remind, although it is already said, of constitutional provisions which primarily oblige the law to enter into force eight days from the day of publication, and only in exceptional cases can this Assembly decide. This is prejudication, deposing in some way of empowering the Assembly to decide on this. The objection to this amendment applies, in fact, to two parts, firstly to the entry into force of eight days from the day of publication and on 1 September, to which there is no 24 hours, we believe that all these laws will not be able to be prepared and implemented and that the public notebooks will start working perfectly normally tomorrow morning, that legal traffic and that citizens will suffer for it. Secondly, it was left out of the full obligation to publish in "The Official Messenger", and it is a constitutional obligation and I think you must also provide for it in the bill. Otherwise I agree with all the other arguments related to this amendment and I support it, so I think you should reconsider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7972	Thank you. The 31st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Sabine Dazdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7973	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the objective of the amendment is to move the entry of this law within a month. First of all, the movement of the date will provide public notebooks with the ability to work in a technical and organisational sense, in order to perform the public-book function entrusted to them in an efficient and valid manner. On the other hand, preparations for the entry into force of this law are not completed. This is primarily seen in the number of public notebooks currently only one third of the estimated number. We all understand and agree on the need to meet deadlines to speed up Serbia's EU accession process, but this kind of work does not achieve anything. The law will enter into force on Monday, September 1st, and from Monday we will have only one third of the required number of public notebooks to perform functions that also courts will be able to perform by March next year. On the one hand, this represents doing the same job by two state institutions, which is very possible for citizens of this country to take a walk from court to public notebook and back, from public notebook to court for the next six months. This also raises the question of when this law will be realistic in those environments where there is no adequate number of public-book sites, such as Novi Pazar, who has received only one notebook and who will not be able, given the nature of the job, to respond effectively and in the right way to the obligations arising from public-book activities without the involvement of public-book assistants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7974	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE IMPLEMENTATION LAW. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanović, Vesna Martinović, Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojšić, Dejan Capo, Suzanne Spasojevic, Zoran Babić, Neđe Jovanovic, Boban Birmancevic, Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić and academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, as well as amendments submitted by the Committee for Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Gordana Comic, Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinovic, in writing, withdrew the amendment together to Article 2. It's a bill of law. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7975	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, respected presidents of the National Assembly, since Minister Selakovic is not here, please give me your word to explain our amendment to Article 3(2) after Mr Selakovic returns to the Assembly Hall. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7976	Is there a problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7977	Here, I can do it again. Since Mr. Selakovic isn't in the O.R....
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7978	He'll be right in. He hears your discussion, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7979	... I just wanted to ask you to give me your word after Minister Selakovic returns to the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7980	That's just impossible. I don't have such a provision in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7981	What do we do?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7982	We'll change the Rules of Procedure. That's how long we've got to go. Go ahead. There's his associate, he'll pass it on safely, and he'll be back.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7983	All right, but please just give me the time to have two minutes. Therefore, the Serbian Government has sent this bill and in Article 3(2), it writes the following: land used for the regular use of the building is determined by a real estate transport contract, and if this is not agreed, the rules provided for in the rules on planning and construction which define the land used for the regular use of the building are applied. We felt that Article 3.'s position should be changed and this is the case: land used for the regular use of the building is not determined by a real estate transport contract, but by the procedure provided for in the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction which defines the land used for the regular use of the building. The government has explained to us why it is unable to accept our amendment and it writes in its explanation – the government does not accept the amendment because of the provisions of Article 3(2). The bill is not excluded from the application of the rules provided for by the regulations on planning and construction which define land used for the regular use of the building, unless it is governed by the fixed-state transport contract, but our suggestion was next – we felt, I am sorry that Mr Selakovic is not there now, and Mr. Cosic can then record it, so maybe we should discuss it. It can't be a public notary that we, I think we understand Serbia's laws well, can't have a public notary establishing land. So, to determine the land that serves the regular use of the building. The land used for the regular use of the building is determined by the procedure laid down in the second law, it is the Law on Planning and Construction, and we believe that, if we adopt this law with Article 2 as it stands now in Article 3. The bill of law, that we will have a discrepancy of texts of different laws that treat this matter. In other words, if we adopt this bill today, with this attitude 2 in Article 3, we will legally confirm the disorder and I believe that the legislative body of the Serbian Parliament should never do so, and that is why I think we have a clean situation within which I do not understand why our amendment was rejected, and I do not understand this argument here in the letter sent by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7984	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7985	Thank you, President. I do not claim that the issue of founding and answering the place of minister, but I am obliged to explain from the point of view of the profession at least to all of us here, and also to the citizens of Serbia that the Institute of Land for the Regular Use of the facility is not only in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, but is also known in the provisions of the Law on Fundamentals of Legal Relations. It is not only a land that, under the Law on Planning and Construction, involves the minimum area needed to form a building plot, but it is a land that, under the basis of the law on property legal relations, can be the subject of a contract. I, as the owner of a plot that has 10 hectares, am significantly exceeding the area that would be required under the Law on Planning and Construction and to be a land for regular use of the facility. The land, for the regular use of the building, is both the land under the building and the land that is in the function of the facility and for the approach, and for access to both the storage and the yard space, for many things. What means freedom to negotiate, and it implies the disposition of parties to identify how much this land will be in the function of an object available as a land for regular use. So, only by changing the law on the basis of property legal relations and other laws can we satisfy this amendment to which the predecessor has appealed, and until then this amendment is not acceptable in terms of what the law prescribes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7986	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, by amendment? You're wasting your time together?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7987	Always your own.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7988	Just spend your time, five minutes, never someone else's?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7989	Always your own. We have an obvious example of one attempt to get into a small door by emergency procedure for the weekend at 12.05 p.m., which is almost five to 12, undergoing something that will cause major problems for the citizens of Serbia, and will introduce illegality into the legal system in another way, i.e. another law. As we had the example of Article 20g of the Privatisation Act, which was unconstitutional, so now we have a legal solution here again that is completely contrary to other different laws. It is absolutely pointless for anyone to report and explain the matter that the minister should explain, even if the minister is not in the O.R., but the previous explanation is particularly pointless, because if we see it as presented to us, that means that each of us can negotiate on his plot anything and there is no need to have laws dealing with planning, building, building, control, no need to have any inspection, but all of this is agreed on by one of the bonds that are signed under the auspices of a public notary. So what we're offering is that the competent authorities of local self-government and the state of Serbia are in control of what is meant under the land used for the regular use of the building. Of course, there are rules on this, and of course these regulations must be strict and applied and controlled daily by the competent authorities. Whether a public notary can in any way determine whether that space, that land, is necessary for the regular use of a building or whether it is the will of two parties that have nothing to do with the law, is unconvinced by a public notary. There is no reason not to accept our amendment, and especially because the Government rejected it by reason and did not exclude the application of the rules provided for in the rules on planning and construction. So we're suggesting that this rule is going to be harshly violated, and here it's not said that it's protected, but that it's not ruled out to apply that rule, I'm not a lawyer, but a very strange legal institute, and we can hardly find it in any legal theory or practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7990	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Susana Spasojevic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) A new Article 4a of the amendment was added to Article 4 as well as to the addition of a new Article 4a to Article 4a of the amendment by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7991	I honestly thought that the amendment would be analysed far more carefully in terms of the substance of the amendments and because it is based on the profession, the SPS parliamentary group continues to insist on further reviewing the position when it comes to the refusal of this amendment, with an appeal for the same amendment to be accepted. Why? I'll illustrate it through practical examples. This is specifically about immovableity contracts. The question arises – what is the difference if I, as a lawyer, draw up an immovableity contract, and my party takes the same contract to a public notary to draw up a public record? What difference does it make when the same party leaves the code book to draw up a public notary, which also implies the conclusion of a contract? In one situation and another, the public notary is obliged to review the contract, and the one that I have drawn up, and especially to review and when the party comes to him, the identity of the party, the party's request, does the party have any which it must not have, does that make certain abuses, is that contrary to the positive legal regulations? So there's absolutely no difference. The contract I put together has the character of a private ID in the form of legal work. That legal work is a traffic jam. If so, then it only facilitates the business of a public notary which my private correction in the form of legal work as a traffic on immovable property will be supplied with a public record which will be some sort of decision with a special legal force. So there's absolutely no difference. On the other hand, small towns, not to mention municipalities, have very few public notebooks or will have very few public notebooks. There are about 100 lawyers in Užica, and there will be only four public notebooks, up to four public notebooks. Belgrade has nearly two million inhabitants, no more than 50 public notebooks. What the Law on Public Registration has prescribed is contained in Article 82. Article 82 contains something which cannot be legally regarded as exclusive jurisdiction of a public notary. It says “precisely. ” Especially not exclusive. And it is written in article 82 that a public notebook is responsible for making up a public record where real estate is present and available. Dear colleagues and citizens of Serbia, the availability of real estate is not only about real estate, it is not just about buying, it can be about renting, it can be about servants, it can also be a gift. Is it far more practical, and we in the SPS parliamentary group are convinced that it is, it is far more practical that they can do so both to lawyers, and to legal aid services, and to mediators, and those who are legal aid providers on other grounds, especially free legal aid, and thus facilitate public notebooks a job that comes down to making up public records. I have to stand in the protection of the profession, and above all, the profession that I'm dealing with, because this profession has taken a unique position on this matter, that really those legal affairs that involve affairs in the jurisdiction of public notebooks, these are public notebooks, can also be through the confirmation of legal documents, or as it is said professionally to solemnize a private document, which is precisely the confirmation of contracts drawn up by all those who provide legal assistance. That is why I once again think it would be good to consider accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7992	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word wants Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7993	Article 10 defines in several of its views how the right to prevent purchases is governed. We have suggested that it be changed and that it is said – If the seller has sold the immovable property, and has not previously offered it to the holder of the right to a yarn of the purchase, or that the immovableity has sold under conditions more favourable than the terms of the offer, the right holder of the purchase may appeal at the court to request the cancellation of the immovable property sale contract and to sell the immovable property under the same conditions. In which we have defined, therefore colleagues Borislav Stefanovic and my colleague Vesna Martinovic and I that the complaint under Article 1 can be filed within 30 days, counting on the day when the rightholder of the purchase obstacle learned about the sale of the property and no later than two years after the conclusion of the real estate sale contract. The government has not accepted this amendment, it has four other positions, with the reason that it is practically proposing to retain an existing member of the 10th existing Law on Transport of Immobility, while considering that he is a member of 10. The draft law completes and precises the legal solution in force is better when it comes to the legal protection of the right of purchase. We can only hope that this argument from the explanation, that the existing proposal is a better legal solution, that it will prove in practice that it is really better. As it says, not that it is no better than it will create many misunderstandings, misunderstandings and circumstances in which there will be more lawsuits than you have accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7994	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Gordana Komic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7995	The amendment applies to Chapter 3 – Special Provisions and Article 12, which reads in the proposed text in its two positions – immovableities in public property can be alienated in accordance with the law governing public property, if the special law is not otherwise laid down. In the second position, agricultural and construction land, forests and forest land, as well as port land cannot be alienated from public property if the law does not determine otherwise. We have proposed, colleagues Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinović and myself, that Article 12 is changed and read – public property immovableities can be alienated in accordance with a law governing public property if the special law is not otherwise laid down. We have detailed in a total of four positions what the case is, how the alienation of immovable property is done, that it is by public competition or by collecting written offers, and that the agreement on estrangement of immovableity in public property is concluded against the provisions of this article, as we propose to change nothing. The government has given reason not to accept the amendment for reasons of supplementing Article 12. The draft law, proposed by the amendment, is not necessary because the process of estrangement of immovable property from public property is governed by the Public Property Act. I purposely read the reasoning by asking again that all those who work in both professional services and that all those who are competent to examine before delivering an explanation to the congregation not to send such an explanation anymore. I'll read it one more time to make it clear why I read it twice out of protest. The Government does not accept the amendment for reasons of supplementing Article 12. The draft law proposed by the amendment is not necessary for a reason... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7996	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word from the transporter? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7997	I stayed involved in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7998	It says Veroljub Matić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u7999	If you want, I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8000	Here you go again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8001	Thank you. Article 13 shall be the continuation of Article 12 of the Chapter of the Specific Provisions. It's about estrangement of public property. A colleague, Borislav Stefanovic, Vesna Martinovic and I have proposed changes, so that we have also specified the role of the public notebook and the procedure when the owner of the property is unilaterally denied the right to property in favour of the Republic of Serbia. The argument given by the government is that the amendment should not be accepted for the reason that it accepted the amendment of MP Boban Birmancevic to Article 13. The bill, which stipulates that besides the Republic of Serbia and an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government can acquire property on immovable property in the event that the owner of the immovable property is denied by a unilateral declaration of his property. The amendment of my colleague Birmancevic is in several different ways, but I would like to be given an explanation for the refusal of amendments that I bear that the reason why my amendment is not good is not to say that it has been rejected because another amendment has been accepted. So my amendment is good or bad. The area with which the Government writes its arguments, regardless of which government, I ask you to be absolutely clear, is a kind of disrespect for the National Assembly, and it is essentially a message a little more street eloquent – let us banish these arguments and amendments, it does not matter anyway. That's not what amendments are for. The amendments serve to be heard carefully by the MP, to be criticised for the idea the MP has or to accept the idea the MP has. It is unacceptable for an amendment signed by one MP to be rejected because someone else has been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8002	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8003	Thank you. Honored presidents, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the amendment tabled by counterpart Boban Birmancevic was accepted by the government, by the Committee and I hope that in the day of voting and to be voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8004	It is the next amendment and has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8005	Thank you. Since I made the introduction, I don't think there's any need now. I want to say something that's important and to be heard and known. I think that by accepting the amendments of counterpart Boban Birmancevic practically after the Republic of Serbia and an autonomous province and local self-government can be those who, through a unilateral declaration of their right to property, can give up for local self-government and autonomous province. What is important is that a permanent conference of cities and municipalities as the largest association of all towns and municipalities in Serbia, similar or such a request, had for us MPs. I think that their request is justified and that most cities and municipalities want to pass such an amendment in the Assembly for the reasons that these immovableities, located on the territory of local self-government, will be best used if the cities or municipalities are available to them. So on behalf of all of them, thank you in this part. I hope this will be voted during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8006	The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8007	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens, I wanted only for the sake of citizens who do not have this law just to read the first position of Article 13 of this law, which is extremely important, which reads: "The owner of immovable property can, by unilaterally declaring, deny property rights in favour of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, or unit of local self-government". It is simply very clear that everything has been defined and there is no need after fellow Matic to explain this amendment. What is very important to say, and that is when amendments are a question and not just for this law, and for all other laws, I think that all those who follow the work of this Assembly are witnesses that amendments that contribute to better quality solutions and improve the law are accepted, regardless of who proposes them, or whether they come from a position or opposition. Among other things, when we talk about applying a set of these laws, it is clear that the importance of this set is that order is introduced into a very important area. What is crucial and what the accent is put into the adoption of these laws and the proposal is right on the citizens, they will be ahead, they will have a greater opportunity, or they will be closer and simpler to do the jobs that are important for signing, copying and over the contract. What must be said is that both this government and this Assembly, of course, and this ministry, have introduced a new practice that has not been present in previous governments, which is that laws are being passed that will be passed as soon as possible, specifically, when these laws are at stake, but tomorrow they will be applied if they are voted on, they will also have their own useful value. It's just that there's no time to postpone. What others were doing, putting it off and waiting for someone to do something, it took too long. Citizens no longer had the patience to wait, so they gave their voice to SNS and Alexander Vukic, who leads new ideas and all that will make Serbia and these citizens better. It is irresponsible of the opposition to challenge the application of this law and all other laws in advance, because simply when it comes to public records and the fact that we only have a third of the verifyers, or authorized notebooks, we are definitely going to apply this law. It is as if we were to wait for the conditions to be met with irrigation for the whole of Serbia to begin. When it comes to Serbia, when it comes to this government, we will not wait. There's no such thing as chaos, of course. Those who do not have a public register in their municipalities and cities have the opportunity to do as they have so far, in courts and local self-government. It's simply very irresponsible to take such a bill and to consider such a law and to interpret it as the introduction of a chaos, which of course is not true. In voting day, I expect the opposition to accept these laws, because simply these laws restore order... (President: Please refer to the amendment. We're done arguing. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8008	I'm asking you about the amendment. We're done arguing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8009	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8010	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 15, was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Minister Selakovic answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8011	The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8012	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 16, was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Minister Selakovic answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8013	The amendment of the Committee is also accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8014	Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanović and Vesna Martinović, together with the MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is wanted by the MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8015	Thank you. Article 18 speaks of when this law enters into force and, as any proposal to amend and supplement the laws that we are discussing today in particular, and after the debate in principle, they are in line with the law on public notebooks. Article 18 states that this law enters into force on 1 September 2014. As in the case of the previous law, the government adopted this proposal on 22 August 2014 and then referred it as a proposal to the Assembly. The assembly can decide when the law will take effect by voting, and the Constitution determines, when the Assembly does not do so, that the law will then enter into force eight days from the day of its publication. This article should read so - that the law enters into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication. The government cannot decide on the entry into force of the law sooner than the Constitution prescribes. The government's refusal to accept this amendment shows that we have a problem with understanding the authority of the government and the Assembly. How and how the Government in the document, which adopted on 22 August, put the law into effect on 1 September without it being possible to do so in the Constitution. Moreover, all those who know better about the Government Act and who know the Constitutional Court procedures, the Constitutional Court has the authority to assess the constitutionality of the proposal before it comes into force, as we remember. These eight days, which the government has put completely unconstitutional to apply in the draft law, is the subject of the Constitutional Court's assessment, and it is additionally unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8016	The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8017	Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, I have no intention of taking up the time of this assembly. I just want to repeat what I said in principle and according to the previous amendment. I don't think there's any need for her to be in such a hurry to apply this law. The point is that this law gives quality results. The point is that the judiciary is better, that the citizens are satisfied. I'm afraid that due to a few days or the adoption of certain laws or parts of the law, especially through final provisions, we can really create a problem in practice. I urge you to reconsider and postpone the full application of this law, not to delay, but to go to parallel application of all regulations together with courts, municipalities by March 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8018	Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8019	We've already brought this up in principle debate, and we're going to do it again now, and other colleagues have made a number of objections to this bill. It's obvious that starting to apply this law tomorrow would create major problems, introducing illegality, legal uncertainty, mass of strangers. The law should be implemented by public notebooks, and they should be 250 in Serbia. They're 90 today and something. The chamber of public notebooks is an important factor in their work and it cannot be formed unless there are 100 notebooks, and they are not available today. We have indicated in the previous amendment that there is a discrepancy with the Law on Planning and Construction. There are many other objections, as well as the adoption of this law with a delayed start-up deadline, that means on July 1st of next year, a sufficient deadline, even for such a government to correct all these bad things, all the shortcomings, and that by July 1st of next year, after five or six years of preparation, it will begin to do public-book service, and that all the laws concerning this service and that part of our legal system will be such that they will not cause problems for the citizens of Serbia, illegality, legal uncertainty, rather than helping them to make life in Serbia, at least in that area better than it was today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8020	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8021	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, honored presidents of the National Assembly, I think it's worth trying once again to convince the minister and his associates to accept our idea of delaying the entry into force of the motion for a law on the transport of immovableity. Two days ago, and today we're trying to do that, we offered a series of arguments and we think it would be very good for all Serbian citizens. I'd like to single out only four things, like some kind of reminder. I believe that if this bill enters into force tomorrow, September 1, 2014, it will mean that the Serbian Parliament here will verify a kind of legal disorder for which the Serbian government is responsible. This type of legal disorder concerns the discrepancies contained in this bill with the content of other laws that exist in our country, which treat similar or same matter. By entering into force of this law, it seems exactly that and a legal mess is being created. The two of us, New Party MPs, will be against it. The second thing, which is important as part of our argument, concerns the next one. I think it is particularly worrying that the Serbian government in this kind of action, contributing to the creation of a legal disorder, represents the minister of justice, who, by all we know about the political system in Serbia, should be the first man to defend the principle of rule of law, which is one of the basic principles on which our Constitution and our state rest. We haven't forgotten, gentlemen, a serious violation that was committed here when the government proposed an amendment to Article 20g in the framework of amendments to the Privatisation Act, which is obviously, which we found here, was unconstitutional. Here we want to go back to some of the principles that are important to modern states, to modern democracies, such as the principles of constitutionality and legality. Besides, it's very inappropriate, I mean, that these laws are passed at the last minute, by emergency procedure, and we're offering an argument asking you to postpone the application of that law. So there is no kind of urgency that should put us in the field of legal unrest, not just a legal mess, but we have proved here, I think, that if this bill was passed, it would cause damage to the real estate, which would be one of the effects of adopting this law. I hope you'll think about our amendments one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8022	As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular and since we have carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're going to the 3rd point. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi, Šib Kamberi, Marijan Risticevic, Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Slobodan Homena, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Gordana Komić and master Aleksandra Jerkov. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, and pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8023	Thank you. We have submitted an amendment where we are asking for a reduction in the amount of taxis that are intended to form legal transactions that have the form of a public record, a tax is paid, etc. First, let me tell you that the law is called the Law on Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes, but to be clear to those who do not understand, that these fees do not go to courts but go to public notebooks, so that this is a completely different flow of money and these prices would have to be much lower. In the past few days, we've had praises about the work of public notebooks, that it's the most important job in the legal system. That's what we heard from the ministers and some of the others. It's very strange that this job has been done for decades by people who have had medium professional equipment, and it has not produced any major problems with the moss, nor has it caused trouble in courts because, of course, this job has not been done by judges, but has been done by one department, usually a counter that even physically has nothing to do with the court building, so this explanation is completely pointless. The way in which at least 50% of the public notebooks were chosen, which we pointed out, were the brother-in-laws, whom the minister says are not relatives, which is true, I did not say they were relatives, but the brother-in-laws of some ministers, the children of high-ranking judges and members of some of the ruling parties, etc. I got an explanation why it's such a top-notch job and why it's a pedestal of rights or legal practice in this country, because the taxes are so big, that first of all, this troubled and poor people are having a dilemma whether they're even using that right to go over some kind of contract, and on the other hand, there's a huge profit of public notebooks, and that's why we're asking that tax to be reduced, because this people don't have the money to pay it, and because one part of the public notebooks, despite the reduced taxis, will be able to make enough money to pay their fees to those who have allowed them to get that function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8024	Thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halim and Shib Kamberi. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Sabina Dazdarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8025	Thank you, Madam President. The proposed law stipulates that according to the values of the property that is the subject of legal work, which is up to 600,000 dinars is one tax, that is, the tax will be the same if the value of the property is 10,000 dinars and the value of the property is 600,000 dinars. This amendment shall bring the price of the tax into line with the value of assets less than the value indicated, i.e. less charges for less asset values are provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8026	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Koraic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8027	Thank you, Madam President. My colleague and I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 which consists of two parts. In the first part, we ask that Section 7 of heading 13a be added in Section 2 to the words – as a donor and a child after these words – that is to say to the donor and the donor who is legally heir to the first inheritance order of the donor under the right of representation. In view of the solution to the hereditary legal and tax rules and other rules relating to the legal succession law of the first inheritance order, and on the basis of which the offspring of the deceased child's deceased are equal to the rest of his children, we believe that such a solution should also be applied in this law, i.e. that those children are also released, or that they are subject to a reduced tax. The second part of this amendment refers to point 1 and we suggest that the words – the total value of the property that is the subject of the legal transaction – be replaced by the value of the property established by the legal business, because what does that mean? Who is to assess the total value of the legal work, so we ask that the legal certainty of the parties be assumed to stand – the value of the property of the legal work established by the legal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8028	Free Homen has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8029	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be very brief. There are certain circumstances where the legislator also felt that a lower fee should be charged for a simple reason, because it is not about buying property or the fact that someone has earned money, so now he buys himself something new or improves his property situation, but rather about a very common situation when it comes to inheriting. I will read the text of the law, with which I am of course agreed, our proposal is to expand the circle of the person who will have the right to reduce the fee. So, for making up a public-book note, a gift contract between parents as a donor and a child as a donor when the object of gifts is immobility is paid 50% of the tax. Our proposal is very simple. It's perfectly fine to pay for reduced practice between parents and children, but our proposal is to expand the circle of the face. In particular, if a leaver is a grandfather or a grandmother and they leave her granddaughter. Also, we believe that there is a condition here when it comes to inheriting a lower tax and there is no reason for it to be charged in full. I think this is good. That there are a large number of cases here when this kind of gift contract is drawn up and there's no reason to put extra burden on the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8030	Members of the 2nd Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and academician Ninoslav Stojadinović. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8031	Thank you. In this law, and when it comes into force, there is a member who says it enters into force on 1 September 2014. This is the third law passed by the government and forwarded it to the Assembly for debate and adoption on 22 August 2014, with a member claiming that the law should enter into force on 1 September 2014. And in previous reasons, I have proposed, this time along with my colleague Aleksandra Jerkov, that the law enters into force on the eighth day of publication, on the basis of the Constitution. What's interesting is the question is, in the voting day, when we vote on these three laws in principle and in particular, will we vote on the law to come into force within a short period of time than is provided for by the Constitution? If we vote, what does this member serve, and if we do not vote on how this law will enter into force on 1 September 2014, when does the Constitution stipulate that this will be the eighth day since the day of its publication? It is not so much a legal matter, or normative, as it is a paradigm about the way the Government does its work, whatever it rules, and the way the Assembly fails to establish its place in the legal system and in defending the constitutional powers given to each of us by the MPs. It can be a special member of the law that will pass other members of the law, it can be a date if the law was passed months earlier, it cannot stand for 1 September 2014 if the bill was passed on 22 August, whether you adopt the amendment or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8032	Thank you. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8033	Thank you, Madam President. This is an amendment that our parliamentary group has submitted to all three laws and I say, as I did the previous time, that I agree with the arguments tabled by my colleague Comic on the need to accept such an amendment. I must remind myself of what I have already said and in the debate in principle, the government has explained why this amendment refuses to apply the law on public records on 1 September, so it is necessary that the same day also the law on amending and supplementing the law on court fees is applied. The same is true of the law on the order of signature, transcription and of the law on the transport of immovableity. But why did it ever occur to us that the day before the entry into force, i.e. before the application of the Public Note Act, we must adopt these laws and that in less than 24 hours they must enter into force? The ruling majority has been running the country for two years. She had to be familiar with the state of affairs and needs, even in legislative processes. What, then, is the reason why we were waiting to now, in this way, break constitutional provisions and violate the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly and adopt the rules of good parliamentaryism in this way with the proposed final provisions? Is it negligence and incompetence of the Government or a boastful attitude towards the Assembly, counting on an absolute majority that will vote all that is proposed, regardless of whether it is in accordance with the Constitution and whether it is meaningful? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8034	I thank Mrs. Hasanovic Korac. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since we have completed the debate on the 1, 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly can determine that the day for voting on a bill will be right after the examination of the bill is completed. In accordance with this provision, I determine Sunday, 31 August 2014, starting at 13 p.m., as Voting Day on the first three points of the agenda of this session, i.e.: Proposal for a Law on the Authentication of Signatures, Scriptures and Prescriptions, Proposal for a Law on Transport of Immobility and Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8035	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 172 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171, v – 12, abstentions - there are no, there are no two, of the 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of the MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric to Article 11 and Zoran Babic to Article 29 and the amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Article 12. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 169 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Vesna Martinovic together submitted an amendment proposing that the name of members and members of 4a be added after article 4. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 170 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Aleksandar Senic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new article be added after Article 4. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 172 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, no one, with abstentions, voted 162 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Dr Vesna Rakonjac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote 178 of the 187 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of Parliament Vesna Martinovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov jointly submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 174 out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – two abstentions - no, 169 of the total of the 188 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 173 of the 189 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 173 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – one, the abstentioned - did not vote 175 of the 191 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – three abstentions - no, 175 of the total attendance of 182 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On article 12 of the amendment, submitted by the MP Dr Vesna Rakonjac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the total attendance of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – one, the abstentioned - did not vote 177 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – two abstentions – no, 175 of the 193 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the title above Article 29 and Article 29, MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – four, abstentions – there is no, 181 MPs did not vote, out of a total of 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Aleksandar Senic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – two abstentions – there is no, 178 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 181 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, v – eight abstentions – there is no vote, 170 of the total 194 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 31st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 177 of the total 194 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 31st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – 13, the abstentions – no, 175 of the total 194 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of 31st. The draft law provides for this law to enter into force on 1 September 2014. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force at the earliest eight days from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 177 against – 13 abstentions – there are no, four of the 194 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill to the vote on the bill of approval of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 177 against – 13, the abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by four of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. We are going to vote on item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE IMPLEMENTATION LAW. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the motion for a traffic law on immovableity, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 177 against – 12 abstentions – there are no votes, five of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments together submitted by the MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinović to Article 6; Zoran Babic to Article 4; Boban Birmancevic to Article 13 and Nedjo Jovanovic to Article 13, as well as an amendment to Article 15 and to Article 16 submitted to the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. I also remind you that the MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinovic, in writing, withdrew the amendment that they submitted together to Article 2. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, v – two abstentions – no, 179 of the total 194 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 185 of the total of 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – voted 183 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A new Article 4a shall be added to Article 4. The amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 173 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – four abstentions – there are no, 176 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, v – two abstentions – there is no vote, 181 of the total 194 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 181 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 179 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 164 of the total 194 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 27, against – one, abstention – two, 164 of the 194 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – three, abstentions – there is no, 185 of the total 194 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 18th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Vesna Martinović and together MPs Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senic and academician Ninoslav Stojadinović submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – three abstentions – there are no, 178 of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, not 180 of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of 18. The draft law provides for this law to enter into force on 1 September 2014. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 178, against – 14 abstentions – there are no, two of the 194 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the motion for a law on the transport of immovableity in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 176, against – 11 abstentions – there are no, seven of the 194 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the transport of immovable property. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COURT TEXT Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 177, v – 14 abstentions – there are no, three of the 194 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 177 of the total attendance of 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 181 of the total attendance of 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 191 of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The first amendment includes MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and academician Ninoslav Stojadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 182 of the total attendance of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and academician Ninoslav Stojadinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 180 of the total attendance of 194 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you it's Article 2. The draft law provides for this law to enter into force on 1 September 2014. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 176, against – 14 abstentions – no, four of the 194 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 177, v – 14 abstentions – there are no, three of the 194 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Law on Court Taxes. Dear Members of the People, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set a break in work. With further work, we will continue at 16 hours and 16 minutes. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue to work and move on to a search in detail on item 4 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE Health PROTECTION under Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I am next to the representative of the acc promoter. Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, called for the meetings to be attended by Professor Dragan Jovanovic, special adviser to Health Minister Natasa Gudovic, Jelica Radulović and Svetlana Zekovic, senior adviser at the Ministry of Health. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavićevic, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamović, Riza Halimi, Shaip Kamberi, Dr Blaže Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8037	It is also clear on the basis of the debate in principle that the proposal that we have from our colleague, Aleksandra Jerkov and I, that this member is deleted, and consequently another member of the law, and not because we believe that the solution that has been explained in several of the principled debates is to be abolished for two years and to allow for a greater number of specialists, that after yesterday's debate it was the subject, but because of the lack of analysis and because of the way to choose this kind of parliamentary struggle, to put pressure on each minister who makes the bill, that it cannot be decided without sufficient data and good enough arguments. As a contrasting argument can be the position of the promoter – you, if you do not want to vote for the law, no argument will be good enough. This serves as an approach to the content of the amendment, which is deleted by the proposed member, because on the part of us opposition MPs there must be evidence of action procedures, not to say that it is not about apriora criticism and that it is not about apriora opposition to any proposal, such as that. our position to vote for the amendment depending on what the amendment says, not who suggested it, which we had the opportunity to prove here. Therefore, I have no doubt that this amendment will not be accepted, but we do not have any other instruments other than these to force all legislators, regardless of whether they are members of the government as legislators of the law, MPs or other legislators of the law under the Constitution, to be unequivocally and without any misunderstanding whatsoever to the citizens, and then to give us an argument as to why the proposed solution is better, what results they will give, in what time the results will be measurable, how much it will cost and who will pay for it. That's the way parliaments normally work. I am saying all of this to remove any suspicion that as members of the opposition DS we are ready to propose a law that he understands, in mutual dialogue, you reach answers to these questions, which many of us here have witnessed about laws from other areas, and which I hope we will also testify about this area that you will lead in the term of office of this Government, i.e. the area of health care. To conclude, in an explanation of why we are asking for this member to be deleted, following a careful debate in principle and having a lot of understanding that in the debate, we are all in principle, including you as a promoter, the key thing was what happened to human resources when it comes to healthcare professionals. So, what is the position of the doctors who graduate, what everything he or she has to do in order to have a subspecialisation or specialization, what is the material position of the doctor, what is the network and whether it is good and whose jurisdiction, your or health centres, what do we expect from that network of health institutions in the coverage of Serbia as a whole? So in all these topics that we have been very detailed and with a lot of attention and thoroughness all of us who participated in the debate shared arguments, I lacked an important dimension when it comes to health care laws, which is the patient. For the first time since your predecessor, Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic has heard ideas about when we are doing reforms in our healthcare system that the patient is the center of the health system, as the student and student should be the center of the education system, such as the centre of the justice system of the parties, the user, not all of us. It's my regret that I still don't see it. I don't hear that tone. We're dealing with what's going on with a citizen who lives in Serbia. I'm speaking by heart, as an example, that applying this law at the end of 2015 will be enough, say, trained enough to work with people, ready to treat people, willing doctors specialists, interns, cardio surgeons, whatever. So, if this debate leaves us as a consequence of a future proposal, and I have no doubt that there will be other additions and amendments to the Health Protection Act, that there may be a new Health Protection Act... If we can establish a dialogue, talk about the consequences this will produce, within what time, how much it costs, and who will pay for it... Most important of all, what the citizen, who wants health care, will have out of the results of the proposals of this law, then as a member of the Government who, I have no doubt, wants to succeed in reforming and strengthening the health care system in Serbia and I as a member of the DS in the good performance of our work, because some woman who lives in Zrenjanin, Novi Sad, Nis, Kursumlija, Prijepolje, in Prokuplje, in Belgrade, in Savsko Venec, in Mali Crnic, wherever you want, who is 45 years old and never, for example, has had a preventive view of possible breast cancer or cervix, there will be no health insurance, because she is provided through a family member or in a farm household, so that some woman named Marija Marić, from our discussion, will clearly see that in her own environment, in her local self-government, there will be someone who will have health care. In order for all of this to happen, I do not have another instrument, but because in this debate, our proposal is to delete this member of the law, Article 1, which of course assumes the validity of the existing law and the applicable regulation, existing when it comes to specialization and subspecies. What I would never like to see happen in one year from now is to be management and that the amendments to this law don't happen in the number of specialists, so that no change can happen for the better or in the number of those who have completed the specialization, or that a change will happen for the better in the right criteria of who gets the specialization. So, to tell you the truth, I'd like you to be right in a year from today, not me. It is my job and it is my duty to make sure that I regularly ask you whether the application of this law is going the way you promised in the opening statement that there will be a change in the law, which, when it comes to specialists, will be produced in Serbia's health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8038	Do you want to wait for the other debaters because you have two minutes per amendment or individually? No, you can total one amendment for two minutes. That's why I'm asking you-- do you want to listen to the others? The minister is using his time right now. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8039	Let me get this straight, and I think we'll agree. That's why I read yesterday because of facts that are unobstructive, that go from the Institute of Public Health Batut, which are numbers, how many specialists, how old they are, and what kind of problem we are in. This is a way to solve this, but for the citizens' sake, I have to let you know, you know, on average, specialization takes five years. So, we're going to start today to get all the specials of the lady we imagined, only five years from now, those people will be specialists. So it's impossible that you say we'll get specialists at the end of the year. It's, you know, yourself. Five years, on average, four, five and six years of specialization. That's why we started, because in those five, six years from now, according to what we've reported, people are going to retire and we have that age line, and then we're going to have even less specialists, just that, I think we agree on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8040	Thank you. The word is Gordana Zoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8041	The Honorable Presidency, respected ministers with fellow Members, honourable MPs, I was just about to resort to my discussion by my colleague, Comic, about why the amendment should not be accepted. The proposed law, i.e. the proposed member of the law, which stipulates that two years of compulsory internship should be abolished, has great significance in so much that it will help us produce specialists much faster than it has ever been before. I hope that colleagues will agree that for many specializations the time spent in general practice is practically lost time, because a pathologist, or someone who attends pathology specialisation, is really best to move from the college bench to a specialist in cardiosurgeon, microbiologist and many other specializations. Practice in the infirmary general practice is completely unnecessary and it is a clean loss. Society gets, that way, a much faster specialist and thus a younger one. I wanted to look back on what the minister had already said. As of today, if we adopt not five, but even six years, because as long as we start preparing to implement this law in action, we will not have finished specialists in six years, and what will be done within those six years, since in the meantime the situation will be worse because many will retire. Since the subject of this amendment of the law is practically specialization, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity, I suppose the minister knows, but because of my fellow medical professional, I have an obligation to publicly state that there is a major problem in the field of medical work. Most people probably don't know that medical work is the only specialization that's been removed from the budget. It is no longer financed from the RFO's funds. Two years ago, we were brought before a final act to define ourselves or we will work as doctors, as elected doctors, and be on the budget, since until then we have worked as elected doctors, as specialists in medical work, or we will be defined to work as selected doctors, or we will do medical work, but we will provide paid funds exclusively from what we do. I think that made one big mistake. I hope it can be corrected, that it is not too late, because the medical work itself, as a specialization, is not so attractive for various reasons, and health care has been denied for those who generate income to this country, means workers, metal workers, miners, workers in the chemical industry, various other areas, where the impact on the health of employees is quite large. Medical work is a preventive branch, and since the trend in general and that it should be, that we should cultivate preventive branches, I think that by taking medicine away from the budget has been made a huge mistake, because it will happen that at this point in Serbia around 150 people are engaged, or 150 doctors are dealing with clean medical work, so they have defined themselves to be doing clean medical work, and the average specialist in medical work, I received data from the director of the Institute of Medicine, the average age is 59, so the average age of medical specialist is 59 years. I have to tell you that these are specialists who issue medical assurances for work, so they determine the working ability of a certain man for a particular profession. They're the only ones educated for that. These are previous checks, doing periodic checks. So, by law, you know that there are interests where the employer is obliged to send a worker once a year for review. This is all financed either from the patient's or from the employer's funds and it was practically a clean income with very little cost to health care institutions. In this way, the health care facility will in some ways be denied, it is one and the other, due to the high average age of the doctor, due to a small number of specialists in the medical work, I wonder who will be reviewing professional drivers in four years, who will issue beliefs about the health skills for amateur drivers. Does this mean, since I assume that the small medical work specialist will be located mainly in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, does this mean that, for example, one agricultural producer from Dubovac, about 50.60km from Belgrade, will have to come to Belgrade to get assurances about the health ability to manage tractors? That's gonna be a big problem. So I would ask the Minister to simply contact the Director of the Institute of Medicine and to see if there is any possibility of finding a more favourable solution there, to make it good for the state, because I think that the existence of medical work in the health care home, as it has been, is quite sustainable. It does not burden the state, but therefore very much helps patients, i.e. I do services provided by medical work available to patients outside large centres. I'd like a model to be found, because these young doctors who opt for new specializations should also motivate them to commit to labor medicine. As things stand now, I'm not sure they'll be happy to define themselves. So, in three, four years, we're gonna have a big problem. These are previous examinations, so doctors' beliefs for work, periodic checks, amateur driver's checks, professional driver's checks. The only specialty that's qualified to give a job skills assessment is medicine. There's no other specialization that can replace that, and that's why it's very important, and I think that now is some time when we'd start dealing with and finding a solution to that specialization, which may be the most valuable of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8042	The People's Messenger, Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, has the word, as authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8043	Dear Parliament Speakers, dear fellow Minister, Mr Loncar, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, Mr Comic's amendment and yesterday's debate over this amendment to the Health Protection Act is precisely our misunderstanding of what is happening with this change. What I was asking yesterday, asking a question on the Health and Family Committee this morning, I'm going to ask now. I don't think they're clear criteria for who gets the special. When you put a member of the law that says – the Ministry of Health has a discretionary right to give specialization to someone, there is a need to make it clear who can get a specialization, when a competition is being held for these specializations and what is the number of these specializations that our young colleagues can apply to. What was wrong with me yesterday and I'm saying it again, that's the statement of the Ministry of Health and your personal, and I have that information and I confirm that they are correct, that in Serbia there were more than 2,455 doctors on the desk. Dear Serbian citizens, we have 2,500 doctors on the desk, and today you heard from the Ministry of Health that we have a lack of doctors in Serbia's hospitals. It's a big question to me – what now? How come previous managements of the health ministry couldn't create a nice rationalization of personnel, how could they not create one pattern of health care facilities, a pattern of health care in these hospitals, to avoid this frantic data? This is possible only in Serbia, you have 2,500 doctors at the Bureau, and by hospitals, as the minister said, as I tell you, you have a lack of doctors, you have doctors who are between 45 and 49 on average and slowly our medical profession is old. These are some things that I absolutely don't understand. I wonder what specialists get when they get specials. Many specialists who specialize in Belgrade, Novi Sad, in Nis are sufficiently trained for independent specialist work or many doctors avoid providing adequate scientific support, adequate scientific progress in their stay at their clinics. I know that many young doctors, returning from the clinical centres of Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, continue to work in some smaller areas of their environments, avoid doing some of the procedures that are scheduled for their specialisation. I'm asking a question, are they not learned enough or did they not have the conditions to learn in those facilities or do they not have enough equipment in those centers where they work? These are things that are very important to answer. What I made in the media yesterday, or I support the abolition of two years, I think that's a good thing, but if you're saying that we're going to solve the problem of young doctors, it's not true that we're going to solve the problem of young doctors, we're just going to postpone their problem, since we have 2,500 doctors waiting for work on the desk. We didn't open the door for them to get a job. That's something we have to do together, let's say -- the state of Serbia takes care of the smartest layer of society, of people who will take over white coats to heal our nation, we want as a responsible state to prevent them from leaving and to treat the citizens of Germany, Sweden and Norway, but rather to heal us. It's an idea, but I also want to tell you in 2013 a law was passed here, I was against that law, about the ban on employment in public institutions, health care is the same thing. Then we are literally under the ban of hiring the Ministry of Finance. How much money is in the Ministry of Finance that determines if you can hire a young doctor. In your report, you state that there are discrepancies in the number of doctors in different circles across Serbia. You even mentioned that Nisavsky County, from which I come, has a number of doctors, and you compared some of the districts around Vojvodina where there are fewer doctors than Nisavski County. I'll tell you that you have KC in Nisavski County, and in KC itself you have 700 and some doctors, so don't fool the statisticians, because statistics are a collection of incorrect data, I like to say it through a joke, so let's not make a mistake. We have a problem with the frame, we have a problem in Nis, as we have a problem in India, in Ruma. So we have a problem with young doctors and the need to go very responsibly after the adoption of amendments to the Health Protection Act with a clear solution to the problem, i.e. opening doors to young doctors so they can come in and find a job. It is something that we must be responsible for both the authorities and the opposition to strive to tell those of our smartest young people – you are welcome to us and not that when they graduate from college, I will tell you as a professor, I have asked them on my exercises and lectures several times – what are you planning afterwards? The only chance is that under some sign of success they get a job as some pharmaceutical agents to sell drugs, etc. Not to find work and what they are trying to do, it's learning German and going to other countries. I'm not saying that you can physically prevent someone from leaving if they pay better in a country, but we give them the opportunity when they graduate from college that these best children treat Serbian citizens rather than treat these others. Many other countries and many other health sectors are looking forward to good doctors from Serbia. It was a lot of dilemma whether we had a good health care sector or not. We have a good health care sector, I'm behind it, medical colleges in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis are good. It's a good fit for us to go to school, and that piece of work goes to Germany without a problem. So the idea is to keep that piece. Yesterday I was talking about getting out of health policy, not getting a job as doctors who are members of a party, or being the sons of a professor, but being children who are good. I'm proud to have the opportunity to work as a professor with the smartest kids to come from Babusnica, Vladic's Han, from Bosilegrad, from these small environments where their parents are workers, where parents don't literally have the money to live, but they gave that kid a chance to learn. The child has an average of 9-9,5 but the child cannot get the current job in Nis or Belgrade precisely because of these artificial receptions by doctors who are members of a party. Now yours, yesterday ours, the day before the SPS, etc. This must be prevented and best children treated by Serbian citizens. One idea for specialists and specialists. You need to streamline to see how many specialists we really have in the state health sector, in the military health sector and in the private health sector, and to schedule all these specialists, and to make a plan for all time -- we want Serbia by 2020 as much as we need and to clear education, to open up competitions at medical schools, like this yesterday I told you that the Republic Health Insurance Fund has been separated practically, that it has autonomy in the state, since it has its own budget of two billion euros, and that you as the Ministry of Health have a significantly smaller, smaller budget, and that the question is that it must be put under the auspices of the Ministry to implement what the needs of citizens and what is the Health Ministry Directive. It wasn't a practice until now. It is important that the military health sector that has good facilities, good hospitals, good appliances, good doctors, which is pharmaceuticald for the former Yugoslavia, the former lesson in Yugoslavia, is now unusable. So, the hospital in Nis and Novi Sad, why couldn't they be city hospitals? I was making a suggestion to my former Minister Sutanovac, it wasn't accepted. I'm making a suggestion to you, too. I think something that exists, that the citizens of Serbia have made out of the budget, belongs to the citizens of Serbia. In the war, we're all war health. In peace we are all peaceful health care for our citizens. So let's make a move. I'm making a proposal in Nis we don't have a city hospital, we don't have a city hospital in Novi Sad, clinical centres are packed with a number of patients who need secondary health care to solve, they need specialists in city hospitals, and I have a proposal from this session that the military hospitals in Nis and Novi Sad become city hospitals, they're financed from one budget, and that we forget the military budget of health care, the republican budget of the health care of citizens. We're all citizens of Serbia, we're poor, let's make use of these capacities so these appliances don't stand unused in military hospitals. We also have machines in many hospitals in Serbia. The most used are in Kragujevac, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Clinical Centre. But in my suburbs of Nis, a number of small towns around Nis you have a lot of anaesthetic devices that are not used, you have a lot of machines sitting in hospitals, surgical salamis are not used or because doctors don't know or because they avoid doing some complex interventions, and the overloaded apparatus in our centers is slowly breathing and breaking down, so as one house we have to take over if someone isn't using, to transfer it to one of our hospitals. I will end this first one-case exposure in Nis, I have initiated the Director-General of the Clinical Centre in Nis, Professor Radovanovic, the neurosurgery clinic has a set of instruments for functional endescopic surgery. An ORL clinic for hypophysic tumor surgery, for endonsal access. We at Nis at the ORL clinic don't have that kind of apparatus, but we asked to make it, to use that machine and to solve all the polyps, nose problems and sinuses with it. Let's use what we have together, so we don't get any memos, I need this machine, I need that one. How much you've trained, how much of this stuff is ready to use that equipment and that equipment we've got, we're using adequately. I hope that some of my examples have contributed to today’s work, and later in several subsequent amendments I will report with some other ideas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8044	The word is Dr. Ivica Jevtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8045	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, this is a good law that will allow young doctors at the beginning of their careers to get specializations, but it should not forget older colleagues who for various reasons have not received specializations, five, 10 or 15 years and who work as doctors of general medicine. I think the law and regulations should put them in an even position with young doctors. However, so far there has been one illogicality which, as I have seen, is not corrected by this law either, or when a doctor gets a specialization, which is already in a working relationship, he will not work with his patients for at least four, five or six years, and fellow patients who remain have to accept his patients, which increases the number of patients per selected doctor. So I suggest that immediately after going to any doctor's specialization, he be admitted to his post until he gets back from specialization, at least, and after that, if the specialization is such that the doctor goes to the hospital, to be admitted to his post as a doctor from the Bureau. We heard there were 2,400 unemployed doctors. Touching the specials to doctors who are at the Bureau, I don't think it would be meaningful, because, by doing so, European countries are looking forward to and accepting our doctors, to get doctors from the Bureau who would go abroad even more easily. I suggest that long-awaiting doctors who, for various reasons, did not get specialization due to disagreements with the director, due to political belongings, be taken into account, that they get specializations, that their colleagues receive specializations by this law, which I agree is fine, and that doctors from the Bureau come in, because for four years and five years, doctors who are in the home of health are covering doctors who are on specialization, it's not okay. If one home of health has 50 doctors and 10 of them get specializations, four years of those 40 doctors will do their job and be shut down, first it happens with rural hospitals, because colleagues physically cannot cover two, three or more hospitals, instead of colleagues who got specialization. Several years ago, by abolishing health centres, health homes were formed, the founders of which were local self-government and general hospitals, whose founder is the Republic. Therefore, doctors from the home of health cannot apply to specializations in general hospitals, but to specializations that exist within the home of health, they can compete in general medicine, medicine, emergency, gynaecology and paediatrics. That's all doctors can get in health care homes. Also, doctors working in secondary and therapeutic health care, who will be treated as clinical physicians, as trainees, they cannot compete for specialization in health homes, which I think is absurd. There is a possibility of calling specialisations at the level of the Republic, so far from any part of Serbia can compete in any city and vice versa. But in practice, this means that, for example, if a doctor from Nis or Valjevo gets a specialization in Smederevo, which is now possible, he will surely seek to return to Nis or Valjevo, or any other city, so that the Smederevo I belong to will again be left without the specialist he sought. Of course, there's a possibility, there's a provision that twice as many years of specialization has to be spent in that organization, but believe me, it doesn't happen in practice. I was under the impression that, like many of my colleagues, the removal of health centers was one of the mistakes, and that until then these problems did not exist. I believe that it is primarily necessary to strengthen primary health care because 80% of the medical work is being done in primary health care. We all know that, and we all know that prevention is the most important thing in every job and in medicine. Yesterday we heard from colleagues that 60% of budget funds go to secondary and therapeutic protection and 40% to primary. And now you see, 60% of the money goes to a secondary and therapeutic one where 20% of the work is done throughout medicine, and 40% of the money goes to primary health care. So I think that every dinar invested in prevention, i.e. in primary health care, comes back multiplely, because we all know that in time, the disease is much easier to treat, much less disability, and in the end, much less cost to the state. It already exists in other countries. I suggest one more thing, which is that for at least two years each of our fellow citizens does a systematic examination, which means going to their chosen doctor where they will conduct the interview, where they will be examined, do basic laboratory analysis, ECG, ultrasound, dental examination, wife examination of gynecologists, and that the confirmation of this is a condition for over-the-book medical books. Such a recommendation already exists, but it is not binding. In this way we can save many lives, prevent the complications of many serious diseases, because more than half of our fellow citizens do not visit doctors and care enough about their health. Also, education, teaching in schools, starting with kindergarten, through means of public information would be useful and now of course, these recommendations exist, but until they are legally forced to do so, it will not happen. I also suggest that the diabetes counselling centres, which have been abolished, advisement for young people already exist, are back again, but we are witnessing a very large increase in the complications of diabetes, which would prevent the return of diabetes counselling. We in Smederev saw these problems in health care, so at the beginning of this year, I wanted it to be before, through the budget of the city of Smederev, we received all the doctors and all the dentists from the employment bureau. No exceptions, and that's nine doctors and four dentists. So we have greatly improved the situation in our health care in Smederev. We are also working on the regulation of the infirmary, so that already many hospitals are more suitable for work, out of the health home of Smederevo, we have opened a "mini home of health" in the Moravia area, where 20 thousand inhabitants are gravitated and it is possible to review not only general medicine doctors, but also children's physician, gynecologists, since 1 September internalists and gastroenterologists, also dentists and prosthetics, and there is also a pharmacy and patronage. I hope the ultrasound and the basic laboratory analysis will work soon. All of this has been done by donations from our fellow citizens. Such a "mini home of health" will also be in the forest part of our municipality, which will greatly relieve the pressure on the home health centre and bring the patients closer to primary health care. I also propose to other local self-governments to do the same in order to improve health care in Serbia. In the environments where health homes are away from patients, I suggest that mobile teams of doctors and technicians be formed to provide them with adequate healthcare, where there are home treatment services and where there are no need to form them, to strengthen the teams of doctors and technicians and also to the rolling stock, so that remote villages are covered by home treatment and not just urban environments. No one mentioned the drug lists, and they're a special story. For example, how does a doctor practically explain to a patient that a drug that needs to be paid at a pharmacy by 25, 50 or 90%? How do you explain that the medicine prescribed to him by a specialist doctor doesn't go to one code because of the subcode? There are inescapable differences, no matter how hard we try to explain it, and I feel that a law should be passed as soon as possible, under which doctors will be official. After more than a quarter of a century of work and more than 250,000 patients so far, I've always had the impression that health laws and rules are being passed by someone who's never examined 50, 60 patients a day, and he's also not waiting in the waiting room with 50, 60 of his fellow citizens in line. I think that for the first time the doctors have been consulted are practitioners, and I also think that our proposals and observations and suggestions need much more to be taken into account in health care. Ours is a low place on the European scale. I'm sure it's not the doctors' fault, because our doctors are highly appreciated abroad and the obituaries are accepted in all European countries so that doctors and technicians are certainly not to blame and new system solutions I think will raise health care in Serbia to a much higher level and to the level at which it really should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8046	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Zvonimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8047	Madam Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, I advertise the violation of Rule 106. The speaker may speak only of the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I think you were obliged to warn a former colleague because we are now discussing, having an individual discussion and discussing amendments to the Health Protection Act, and the essence of the amendment is to cut specialisations after a graduate college and after a state exam, without clinical training to go to specialization. With all due respect to the state of health and health care in which we are both in the system and as an institution and as a people, I think that yesterday we had opportunities and that we will still have opportunities, given that we insist on reforms and I advertise the injury and ask you to warn your colleagues that there is an individual debate, and not a general debate, we ended it yesterday and that we stick to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8048	Thank you. The truth is, I haven't heard a single word of the last discussion at all, so I haven't been able to react, and the other MPs haven't turned my attention that it came out of subject to amendment 1. I call on Members to speak only of the amendment to Article 1. Otherwise, there are measures in the Rules of Procedure to take time from the parliamentary group if you harm the Rules of Procedure and do something else and not what is scheduled. Who's answering for the word after the amendment to Article 1? The word has a folk MP, Dr Branko Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8049	Dear Presidents, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Health, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday we spoke in principle about the amendment of Article 184. The health care law. On the basis of the discussion, I was under the impression that virtually no one is opposed to changing that amendment, relating to Article 184. What is important yesterday as part of the principle story of changing this article, I asked whether the change of this member will have a positive reflection on our ranking, related to the European Health Consumer Index or the European Health Consumer Index. Based on that analysis, we have come to the conclusion absolutely that it will have a positive connotation and a positive result. We didn't hide for a moment that based on the ranking of this study, or this project, we're in the last place. What has personally given me great hope that the change of this member is only an introduction to a complete reorganisation of the health system of the Republic of Serbia that is what the health minister told us yesterday, that the Executive Director of the European Health Consumer Index, Mr Arne Bjornberg, is present and invited by the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia. We faced the truth. The Executive Director of the European Health Consumer Index is here in Serbia. It is a person who needs to help us solve and with a comprehensive solution to the health system problem. The change of this member of the Health Protection Act is just the beginning, and that is my deep opinion, a comprehensive reorganisation of the health system. It's not a question of each and every one of us saying where the problem is. I'm a neurosurgeon at the Clinical Centre of Serbia, a regular professor at the University of Belgrade Medical School. In Serbia's health system, there is one coin that says -- a reference health institution. If we have several neurosurgery clinics in the Republic of Serbia, the reference health care institution knows which is and by definition the reference health institution knows what the health care institution should do. If we do, he mentioned a colleague, so-called. transvenoidal surgery of a pituitary tumor, or a small brain-based tumor...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8050	Doctor, I respect your knowledge. Please accept your suggestion and speak precisely about the amendment, therefore, about the possibility of professional training under the terms of the current law and the bill we adopt. That's how we can all do it, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8051	I'm talking about this being the beginning of a comprehensive reorganisation and that's how it's treated. The evidence is that the executive director is practically this project in Serbia. We can talk here for hours that problems are related to Serbia's health system and more or less everyone will be right, but this is the beginning of something, and the beginning consists of facing the truth, and at some next stage we should start to reorganise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8052	I have a suggestion from the MPs to take a break if they don't want the MPs to talk about the amendment and make a little arrangements on how to end it. We'll give some more MPs a chance. From all MPs' groups, I am advised not to talk about the subject. The word is Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8053	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, Mr Minister, members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, I am against the amendment tabled by a colleague from the DS. I believe the motion to amend Article 184. The Health Protection Act, proposed by the ministry and the minister, should be strongly supported, as the objective of this change is very clear, which is to provide quality and available health care, enabling faster and more efficient renewal of personnel. I don't want to be long. In the end, I would say that I am very pleased that my colleagues from the DS are so full of suggestions and ideas. I'm talking about the functioning of the health system. I wonder what they contributed from 2008 to 2012, and some of them have been participating in power for much longer, and some of them have reported only four times for a four-year term of office, and they have only spoken twice about the health care system. So much for their care.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8054	Thank you. The word has Dr Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8055	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not think we should accept this amendment because during yesterday's debate we have heard in principle the reasons for the adoption of this law on amendments to the Health Protection Act. I simply didn't want to report on this amendment, but my colleague, Milisavljevic, challenged me by saying that he was worried and feeling the fear we would take of the criteria during the specialization assignment. I'd just say that the SNS has shown clearly so far that it's the most important expertise. As a doctor in 2002, I was the only one on the waiting list, because I didn't want to be a member of a party director who belonged to a very...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8056	I'm asking you about the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8057	This amendment will not be accepted by me or by my colleagues from the SNS, and I say that I was the victim of exactly the director who belonged to his party and was the only one on the waiting list for a job in 2002. Therefore, there is no need for colleagues from the DS to care...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8058	I won't allow it anymore, not because I'm against it, but because we can't recognize the discussion of the amendments. It's not about anyone individually, it's about the problem of having a session, because I don't know when I give a word about what someone's going to say in advance, and we don't have the possibility of written discussions. The word has a folk MP, Dr Slobodan Gvozdenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8059	Dear Presidents, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, the essence of the amendment refers to the fact that during the assignment of the specialisation they do not know the criteria in which they will be allocated. The criteria for the assignment of specialization can be different. It may be the length of study, it may be the average you had in your studies, and we are also all aware that mostly of who gets the specialization is decided most often by the chiefs of services where the chosen doctors have spent one part of their internship or by the directors of medical centres or clinical centres. What remains after 10 years of management of Professor Milosavljevic with Serbian health can only be called one word - Hiroshima. So you, Mr. Minister, are expected to do the right thing. It won't be easy for you at all, but these mental anorexic amendments to the opposition for SNS are totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8060	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8061	The amendment that's been discussed is my amendment and there's no word in it about the criteria, not at all. It's short, it's easy to read. It is said: “In the Proposal for a Law amending the Health Protection Act, Article 1 is deleted. “ It would be much easier for all of us to read what we want to talk about. But I use the time of the parliamentary group because of the comments the minister had and I find it extremely important to remove any doubt as to why I explained the strategy of submitting such an amendment and why I said the sentence – we will see each other at the end of 2015. Because at the end of 2015 we have to have some measurable result. With full awareness that the time of specialization of four, five or six years, but if next year you don't have any measurable result of having more of those who started specializing, then there's not five or six years, then you're six or seven years old. When I tell you about the control of such a species or pressure, it's not meant as an attack, as a challenge, it's, first of all, our constitutional jurisdiction, and it comes from the fact that you can't change a system that you don't measure first. They don't help big things. They don't help general places. When it comes to changing such a system that is quite measurable, it only helps us to know how many specialists we will have at the end of 2015 that they started specializing, that they started subspecies and that it is guaranteed that in five or six years then we will cover the network of specialist services in the way you propose and explain that they will be. I have no reason to doubt that's the case, but it's good for you to make a cut at the end of 2015. Why am I talking about the end of 2015? We have a budget rebalancing ahead of us and before you. If so, if the finance minister does not decide as in 2013 to bring together the rebalancing for 2014 and the new budget for 2014. This is the first moment when you can change everything more or less in a general way about the need to be employed by a doctor, about the need to change the work of the RFO, about the need to change the budget of your ministry by showing in terms of rebalancing or for 2015 you say – we want to hire a doctor so that we can do that commission that serves not to apply the Employment Prohibition Act, as an example in Smedereva, that's what you had to decide to be employed, so if we really want to change the system, and I'm rooting for the health care system of people in Serbia to change for the better, then you and I, I don't think of me personally, any of my colleagues, at the end of 2015, has to ask you the question: how does it stand with the application of this member of the law that you changed in health care? If there is no change compared to 2014 or 2013, all that you want to do well, by increasing the number of specialists, by increasing the employment of doctors who are graduated, who have no or no internship, no change, for example, the budget rebalancing proposal or the 2015 budget, will not happen. It's not my goal to argue that you have the right to talk about what's going to happen. It is my goal that you and I together, because of people who need to be health care users, we know that we tell them clear information, to measure the system together, so that we can change it. And that's why my proposal to amend this content. Because when you write such an amendment, then it gives you space to open a dialogue, if on the other hand, there is will and readiness for dialogue. If we have listened carefully to all of us, then it is quite clear how huge an empty field is, without dialogue, when it comes to health care in Serbia and how much time you could spend here in public hearings, on round tables, in discussions with MPs about how many numbers you would need to implement reforms that you would suggest through changes to the law or through completely new laws. This is all in the sentence – I will ask you, Minister, at the end of 2015, how many new specialists, what has changed for the better, so that it can be said that there are now so many, in these and those areas, with these and these subspecies, which in 2020 means coverage. Then let's take it one step further. Then we look at what we have to do to make sure everything else is planned to be improved in the health care system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8062	Injury of the Rules of Procedure or are you wasting your time, I ask Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic? It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8063	Dear President, thank you so much for giving me your word. I'm advocating Article 107 that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. And I'm at a meeting yesterday, and I'm sending an appeal today. When you say - mental anorexic amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8064	Who said that exactly because Gordana Komic didn't say that?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8065	It was said at the sitting – mentally anorexic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8066	Who?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8067	A pay phone before her. I don't want to mention anyone's name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8068	You have to be very specific about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's no "an general" anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8069	You'll see from the stenogram. It doesn't matter what the pay phone is. It's said and look in the stenogram. What is done does not violate the dignity of the congregation, violates the dignity of patients who suffer from these diagnosiss. So you didn't insult any MPs or any politician. Politicians have thick soles, fat cheeks...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8070	They don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8071	... But patients who suffer from severe illness are offended.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8072	I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8073	The appeal is not to allow any more MPs to use in insulting any other diagnosis, for it does not offend him, but offends patients who suffer from these diagnosiss.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8074	I can't agree that I hurt the Rules of Procedure, because you were saying something in general and you didn't want to say who. I don't know what "mentally anorexic" means. I can't react. I'd have to be an expert in several areas. Gordana Komic didn't say that. You must report to the Rules of Procedure at the moment of your injury. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure in anything. Do you want to vote on it? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8075	President-in-Office, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was quite concerned that one assembly session would pass without the opposition submitting an amendment that reads - is deleted. Article 1 is deleted; Article 2 is deleted; everything is deleted to stop, to erase, to prevent reforms in every law so far. What do they want to wipe out? Perhaps the need and desire for young people to be educated, young people to get specializations, to get into a situation to correct these injustices that have arisen, to have so many old specialists who in a few years will retire, and there will be no one to replace them. Is that what we need to wipe out? What, gentlemen, has been going on for 12 years? You wiped out everything you could wipe out. You've also wiped out health care, morals and ethics. The economy has been wiped out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8076	Please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8077	It's about wanting to delete these members from health care reform. They had a chance to plan the personnel, everything they needed. Was it hard to measure when some specialist retired? Was it hard to see that in five years' time, he was going to start a new specialization in his place? What was planned for 12 years except for the chaos that occurred? There was a purchase of equipment, and now the opposition is saying there's a lot of equipment out there that has no one to use. Why did you buy the equipment? Equipment was bought to take something from this equipment, but the personnel were not educated, and it takes 10 years to train one person, and it takes five minutes to buy equipment. Now we're in this situation and now we're giving lectures on what we should do. Leave it. Health reform is on its way, and no one's gonna stop them. It's the only way this health care can get better. We don't have another way. Health care is expensive which is based on ignorance, health care is expensive to those who are disorganized, health care is expensive to those who are based on unquality, because then hospital days are extended, there are misdiagnosed, there are mistreatments and expensive medications to do, it's expensive health care. Health based on knowledge, quality, which is based on the training of our young people, this health care is not expensive and will never be because it produces health. This ministry and this government are going to do something that you haven't done in 12 years, it's transplants. Where are we in Europe? We're back in last place. Not since yesterday, we've been here for the last 12 years. Don't teach us what to do anymore, but let us get this reform started and it ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8078	Thank you. By amendment, Dr. Milletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8079	I'm not really a doctor or anything like that. Dear President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I will not vote for this amendment because of what it says – it is deleted because we want our health care to get better. I'm coming, I'll always say it, I come from a small town of Srlig. It is perhaps the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, it is the most beautiful one, which has major health problems, and with us there is no time to wait...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8080	MP, please, about the amendment, about the specialization.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8081	... Yes, that's precisely why I'm saying, to delete this amendment precisely because we in the municipality urgently need the specialization of internal medicine and therefore we need this bill to adopt to get an internalist there as soon as possible, a man who will treat people, because in Srvlig, as in many of these small municipalities, there are major health problems. Indeed, as a man, I have confidence in the government and Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, in his ministers, because I am sure that this law will improve some things, and it matters to me as a man who comes from a small municipality, who has 500 square miles, who has a large number of old people who need treatment, who need an intern, a man...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8082	I'm asking you about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8083	... One more thing, according to the amendment normally, I really won't vote for this amendment, just because of what it says – delete. We need to adopt this bill, because we really have a lot of big problems. I've heard from my colleague Marjan now, and he's got some water problems in India, and he needs some specializations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8084	Thank you. I'm gonna have to take a break for two, three minutes. It really can't be done like this, there's general noise in the O.R. It's not worth saying after every sentence - here's the amendment. It's best if we take a break for two minutes, you'll figure it out for me, so we can work quality. We've got 20 more reported. You'll get back to me after your break to get on with it. A two-minute break to try and keep working on the amendments, which is why the minister came and we're all gathered here to discuss the details of the law. Just two minutes of time to think about it and talk to the heads of Parliament. [[After break, 17.32 hours]] We made a deal, we move on to the next amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, the Honored Ministers, the Honored Guests, my proposal is to now focus on the debate on the content of our amendment which we have submitted to Article 1 amending Article 184. Proposal for a Law amending the Health Protection Act. I now have one belief that there is a chance that today's majority here will adopt this amendment and I have this belief based on yesterday's principle debate, and especially after this morning's debate that we had in the Committee on Health and Family within which I heard the opinions of doctors from various political parties, from the SPS, for example, from SNS, for example, Mrs Djukic Dejanovic, Dr Miletic, Dr Radivojic, Dr Rakonjac, that there is a clear, justified and good logic in our amendment. Since it exists, I expect we to adopt our amendment here today regarding the next one. In the proposal for a law sent by the Government, in paragraph 2, a health care professional with higher education may be perfected and in close speciality provided that he has performed health care tasks in accordance with this law as a specialist in certain branches of medicine, dentistry, or pharmacies, and that is fine. The next position, that is the position of the 3rd member, defines the unemployed healthcare professional and the possibility of that person getting or applying or starting his own specialisation. We believe that, on the basis of a proposal from the Government, a healthcare worker who is employed and a health worker who is not employed, that they are not legally equal in respect of certain rights. We have submitted an amendment adding one position to the bill, which is Section 3 where we believe that these two types of people who want to enroll should be legally even. Just for that idea, I understood it so, we have a kind of feeling of understanding from the minister, so I understood yesterday's debate, from a large number of members and members of the Health Committee, and I couldn't predict that it is possible for this amendment to not be adopted today and that for the first time in this Assembly we perform as a legislative body against something which is a bad proposal or a bad proposal from the executive authority in our country. Let's talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8087	Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8088	I wanted a replica after I was mentioned. Obviously, I'm not well understood on the board. Logic is not disputed and well-intentioned and well-intentioned tends that doctors who are unemployed, who have a desire to perfect themselves, should be perfected and in this sense we have agreed, but the Committee has also fully agreed with the exception of the proposings of this amendment that it cannot be without some synchronisation. He can't create a huge number of highly specialized people and stand behind it, that they don't have a job behind it, and then criticize how we train them, and they go abroad. So the public health institution and the ministry must have a plan of what number of people it is. We agreed that it is quite right that by December 31st, as stated in the bill, the minister makes a list of all deficit specialities and that there will be volunteer specializations. So logic and well-meaning stand, but the justification to synchronise this process itself. So far, there's been no volunteer specialization at all. Now they will be for all those who can make a contract in private practice or in a network of health institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8089	Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8090	On this amendment, we have received a response from the Government that I will partially quote. It says – the provisions of Article 173a of the Health Protection Act stipulated that the minister is adopting a staff plan for employees of health care institutions from the Network Plan, a "p" large, which determines the maximum number of employees in those health institutions that must be in line with the financial resources, etc. What was the plan? We can see that now. Everyone in Serbia is saying, both the government and the opposition, and the minister, and the doctors, and the employees, and the unemployed, that we have a problem with leaving a large number of doctors with specialization, that some go abroad, some are retired, and that we are faced with a shortage of people with specialization. So much for the plan. The plan, as another expression, is the personnel plan. It's a half-century dictionary. What kind of personnel plans? In what country do you have health plans? Who can stop anyone who has enough knowledge and resources and who wants to specialize in some medical branch, who can stop it? That doesn't guarantee, of course, a job. No one is guaranteed a job, no matter what it says or what it says in the Constitution. A man can for his own free will, for his own cabinet, or perhaps by doing so, he wants to establish a private health care facility. There's a big master plan here, which the former ministers made, so we see what it looks like now. I hope the new minister doesn't fall into that trap, that with his plan, this agony that we now have extends to an even longer period. What is the initiation of our amendment is that everyone who has enough knowledge, who is qualified through regular studies, applies to specialization, to pass, of course, absolutely the same program as everyone who works in the state sector or who comes from the private sector, or who doesn't work anywhere, which is our amendment and that they can come to a specialization. This increases the number of people who specialize in doctors in our country. It's called the market. I know that's one dangerous word, that a lot of people are afraid of it. But if that's mentioned in party programs, if that's said to all the bells in the exposé, so let's apply that. There's no better chance than health care. Who's gonna mind? You said you had no potential. Only four colleges don't have enough space to take people into specialization, create legal conditions. Perhaps when such legal conditions are created, colleges will find a way to expand their potential, perhaps they will see a source of new funding, without reducing the criteria for specialists. It's all possible to do, it just takes a little bit of will and I hope we all think well of this country, and if we think that, let's create legal conditions today, and of course that by the end of the year won't bring people from specialization, it takes five years. If we wait with this decision for a year, it'll be six years. If we wait to create all the conditions, it'll be ten years and we'll always have a problem with having unemployed doctors and a lack of doctors in clinical health. All that's going on right now until one real reform measure like this, along with all the other ones that I've mentioned, with a change in health insurance system, I said that we have one system that hasn't worked realistically for 15 years, which is called Bizmarkov, by definition, to change it for one another where we cut the fund, we stop insurance from having only employees and temporarily unemployed, but all of them have insurance by their births, and that's one step. The second step, I was already speaking yesterday, and today my colleague reiterated that the potentials of military health, primarily accommodation, should be used together with civil health, to affirm private health, that many investments for which the state does not have money, the private sector would find money, if it were the fund or in this other way through another health insurance system to come to the market and to charge those services, not peppered by the citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8091	You've spent five minutes. (Zoran Zivkovi, from the place: I think it's all clear.) Yes, it's all clear. The word comes first from the minister and then from the MP Marijan Risticevic. You'll have to sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8092	We're not going in now, I'm going to say there's a technical problem. Tonight we watched if there was a possibility of doing it, and it can't be done for one reason. Two-thirds of the specialization program, there's a specialization program and now there is, because it's not just about the specialization of institutions, it's about college, it's about everything. A little less than half the time you have to spend in a home institution. When you come, it has to be so, the parent institution has to guarantee for the implementation of the program, but when a man comes, there's no suggestion of a parent institution, it comes from home. He can't do that part from home, and the other problem is that at this point we don't have the capacity for what we're supposed to start now since October. It's just a technical problem that can't be carried out that less than half the time you spend at home, because it's such a specialization that you have 40 percent depending on the specialization, to spend in the home institution, and the rest of it, going round one, rounding the other, signing these and them, and you have what you have in the home, and it's not recognized when you come, that's what anyone who's currently in health can say. They have to create preconditions, but it's not up to the Ministry of Health, it's up to the medical colleges, because they have to find a way where these people are supposed to perform at the home institution, to get the facilities, to approve everything. It's a technical problem, so we don't talk about it now, because we have to solve it. As for the approval of the specialization and everything, it clearly states, it is neither a discretionary right of the minister nor anything, the institution itself makes a proposal, it is considered in institutions dealing with budgets and everything. It's just coming to the agreement that people don't think, discretionary law, now the minister is giving specialization, and it has nothing to do with the brain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8093	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8094	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Chairman, I might agree with my fellow farmer's argument that we need as many specialists as possible. So, given that our average age, especially in the country, 59 years old, if we were an old nation, if we had more and more sick, if we had more and more crowds in front of waiting rooms, in front of specialist offices, I could totally agree that every doctor who passed the state exam has the right to specialize, but I can't agree with that part of doing it without a plan. Even a vineyard when you plant, even a vineyard when you germinate, you have to have a plan. So, we can't make specialists without any plan because around the minister has a review, he needs to bring in some regulation, some regulation that requires regulation as many specialists as necessary. So we can't make specialists, so let's just say they're all psychiatrists. I believe that, according to some statements, we need them. Let's just say, everyone is, specializing without a plan, being psychiatrists, and then we don't have enough orthopaedics, we don't have enough surgeons, etc. Someone's got to take care of it, and we farmers can't see it. We winemakers can't see it. So it's the health minister who needs to prescribe how many specialists he needs. He has the best overview of how many are ill, what kinds of diseases are and how they should be treated and where the number of specialists should be increased and where they should be reduced. He's the one who can evaluate waiting lists, etc. I don't see that we farmers can determine that. We are patients, we are willing to go over the line, but we don't want to wait that long, but we can't have insights that can have those who are responsible for health care, and that's the Minister of Health. Today it is one man, tomorrow it may be quite another, and in some next session it will be quite another medical expert, some other health minister will fill that plan in his own way. I don't agree to do it without a plan. I'm also dissatisfied because a colleague who spoke about medical and veterinary binding, classical medicine and veterinary, I think we need experts who, and specialists, will ask the minister to follow it, who will follow, especially the specialist in infectious diseases, who will monitor animal diseases, especially those that can be transmitted to humans. So animal health can endanger human health. It can be transmitted, like fever, it can be transmitted to Ebola. I believe that the way Ebola moves from animal to human, from monkey to human, that the amendment promoter knows that. So it's absolutely not a dispute that a fellow veteran tried to point out that. We know an expert who was an afla toxist, who cared so much about animal and human health. However, it has happened to this expert in aflata toxin, which is proof that through milk can be endangered through animals and human health, let's say that the one who has taken care of animal health and people's health so much as makes waterfall in India, let's say the device, I've already said that in this House, has done a recycling of lead and lead batteries, thereby jeopardising people's health. Then someone in India today - forbidden use of water for both cooking and drinking. Now we have another problem. The well-known afla toxist thus endangered people back in 2007 and 2008, although warned even by Dulic, endangered people's health and won the post of vice president for the award in a party that is now opposition, and until recently there was a ruling small party, and he took the stand as vice president in the party. If he cares about the health of people and animals, as he now doesn't care to say that it is forbidden to use water to power cows and animals, because if there are heavy metals, and it's about the processing of lead, if there are heavy metals in that water because someone on the water supply made a battery factory and now became the vice president of the party, and apparently looks after people's health, then it's called a hypocrite. If it endangers human health, if it endangers animal health, lead will be deposited in meat and milk...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8095	Please, Mr. Ristivoevich, return to the amendment immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8096	Of course, I'll be right back for the amendment. That's why I'm saying we need specialists. The minister can plan this, and I do not agree that this is done beyond the plan, because we need specialists in infectious diseases, toxicologists in this case, to assess that the milk and meat of cows, or lead stored in it, will come back into contact with people and in such a way heavy metals will reach people, people will suffer permanently by threatening to light up us in India, and he has become the vice president of the democratic, or party of the former regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8097	Thank you, Mr. Ristivoevich. Please, MP Borislav Stefanovic according to the Rules of Procedure. Please quote a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8098	A constant example of violations of Articles 106 and 107. In fact, four minutes and 38 seconds you allowed the previous speaker to be completely out of the picture even though he was, of course, skillful but not fun. Then in 107, you allowed the most disgusting way to be false and about the party, about the vice president of the party that is not present here. You only warned four and a few minutes later, to the soul mildly and then he said the following, quote: "I am going back to the amendment", and continued to talk about toxicology, lead and similar toxic matter, which I also have to mention exists in unexplored silos and in unpaid taxes of the MP concerned. When it's done that, then the same thing can come back from the other side, and you're there to warn and break in time, because then we're going to have to take a break again because when it's said, here's what I'm going to do on the amendment, so it's going to go on. Please do not allow such practice, no matter what MP it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8099	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. It's a bit of a problem because there's noise in the O.R. and believe that we as chairman don't hear half of what the speaker is saying and I feel that the previous speaker is talking about the subject, so I warned him so I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8100	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8101	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8102	Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8103	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8104	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, a member of 108 has been injured where he writes in Section 1. - Okay, at the National Assembly meeting, the president of the National Assembly is taking care of. Mr. Chairman, you've been told a little while ago that you can't hear what's being said in this House, now you're telling me that you don't see what I'm showing you that I'm reporting in the Rules of Procedure. Your Honor, you yourself have now confirmed that there are no conditions for you to conduct this session because you cannot take care of the order of the session on the basis of article 108, and please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8105	Mr. Pavicevic, why did I ask you? Because you were out before the previous speaker spoke, you were in the system as reported. In the meantime, you applied to the Rules of Procedure, and I was just asking if you wanted to use the first right you reported for. Okay, now I see you've raised the Rules of Procedure. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8106	So here I am going to repeat, since you have been respected by the chairman of my court now shown one impatience and one intolerance towards the MPs coming out of the opposition. Why did you do it, I don't know, but it's obvious that this impatience exists. I was right when I received my word to announce in two minutes why I consider you to have injured Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You interrupted me in 30 seconds, you wouldn't let me explain what I was doing and I think you just kept breaking the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Dear Chairman Bečić, if you yourself admit that you are unable to secure order at the National Assembly session, which provides for Article 108, please interrupt this session here now, to give a break of an hour and a half so that someone else who hears a little better and sees this session run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8107	Thank you. That's what the chairman decides, not you. Do you want the Assembly to plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8108	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8109	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ristivojevic, I see you're raising some paper, not a Rules of Procedure. When you raise the Rules of Procedure, I'll give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Milisavic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8110	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I will return to this amendment submitted by Prof. Pavicevic also suggested that all graduate medical students have the right to apply to volunteer specialization. I personally remember a time when Slobodan Milosevic was in Serbia, when everyone could enroll volunteer specializations. At the time, I was not to such an extent because it shows the weakness and inability of the state to take care of its young doctors. I think it is much more important that the Ministry of Health make a plan as many doctors as it takes for the state of Serbia and how many medical schools, how many medical schools are allowed to enroll students in the first year. The data from the Ministry of Health is that every year 1,100 students enter medical schools, if I have received accurate information from your Ministry, I think I have, and at the Bureau we have 2,500 employees and now there is a problem with specialization, where Mr Pavicevic asks that all students have the right to enroll in specialization, and I tell you – no, this is not the way to solve the problem. The problem is solved by having to make a problem as much as the state of Serbia needs a doctor compared to the sick population, and you are looking for medical schools to enter an adequate number, not to print up some number of doctors and mentioning the Faculty of Kosovo Mitrovica who is studying for which territory of our country. Let's be serious about ourselves. We're spending a lot of money, and we're making an evil thing for our young colleagues who are smart, and when you let them finish college, the kids are looking to get a job. Let's say, the problem is in the number to treat the citizens in the next five, ten or twenty years. I think that's the solution. This solution right now is the shift of the best, it's not the best. The shift is better if you have the right to get a specialization so we can get a little bit of renewed when young doctors do, but we still haven't found a solution to how many doctors. It takes a plan for Serbia how many doctors it takes on an annual basis to educate our medical colleges and make it a law for everyone, not that many medical schools find ways to put in 10, 20, 30, 50 students to get some funds for personal needs. This amendment is good. I supported him today on the Health and Family Committee, but the final solution will be when we find a way to tell these young doctors -- you can study, you can get specialization, and after specialization, my dear colleagues, the most important that they start working. If they don't start working, it doesn't matter what specialization they finish. The most important thing is to continue their education, to help citizens for the next 20 years, how much they invest in their education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8111	Thank you, Dr. Milisavljevic. Mr. Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8112	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I am advocating Article 103(1) and Article 4 in relation to Article 107. So these are some obligations prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and it does not say that I am obliged to keep my Rules of Procedure high. I can rewrite the actions of the Rules of Procedure, I can also lose it, but it is a duty and a duty to quote the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on whose violation I indicate. The first injury I point to, Mr. Chairman, it was only the third time you hit my last name. I'm not Ristivojevic, I'm Rističevic, and we're here to testify that you've crossed me twice. I've been baptized for a month. So there's no need for anyone to cross me in this room. The breach of the Rules of Procedure that I point to in relation to article 107, because here is an offensive and untrue term regarding article 107. It is said here that my company owes a tax and owes something to the stock reserves. Here, I am solemnly declaring in connection with the part of the speech of the MPs of a small opposition party, very small, that I do not have a firm, that I do not owe a tax, and if he has evidence of it, I will resign as a MP if I have a firm or if that firm owes a tax, but if that is not true, I would like that MP, who is the untrues who print in "Blica" and publish on B92, also resign because it is a lie. I thank you so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8113	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Vesna Rakonjac, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8114	Dear Chairman, Your Honor, we've heard a lot about this amendment. I think it's a good idea to introduce volunteer specializations, but they can't be properly introduced and we can't define ourselves as volunteer specialists. All serious states have some normative as many doctors as needy to which number of residents and what number of specialities. As for volunteer specializations, the minister said facilities were needed in institutions where professional practice would be carried out. Therefore, you can't get volunteer specialization off the normative. It is clearly prescribed to 100,000 residents who specialize in how they are determined and won. The next procedure is when one institution wants to send someone to specialize, it sends a professional opinion to the Institute of Public Health, which covers the territory whether it is humanely justified or not. After that, the memo is sent to the ministry and only with the approval of the ministry is competed in October or April of the month at a certain higher education institution, i.e. medical school and medical school, prescribed exactly how many specialists are enrolled per year. That's the job for both regular and volunteer specializations, that's what it's gonna be. As for personnel, personnel planning, in the previous period, members of your party, professors of medical school at the Department of Social Medicine, I don't want to mention the name of the professor who was a worker of the Ministry of Health, she did it like this, and so we now have this mess that's tragic in our health care. Not to mention the formation of a specialization called public health specialization, which lasted a year and was supposed to replace all preventive branches, and in this specialization the right to enrol was also given by those graduates of organizational sciences, various managers, machine engineers, literally all profiles, environmental engineers, so we got one chaos on the market and not from health staff under the auspices of the specialization from public health in health institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8115	Thank you, Mrs. Rakonjac. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. You've got four minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Guest, I am now even more convinced that there is a chance that this Assembly will adopt this amendment and oppose finally one proposal from the Government for which the possibility of improvement is not accepted, and for that there are conditions. The conditions are secured by the amendment which we have submitted to Article 1 amending Article 184. Proposal for a Law amending the Health Protection Act. To remind the MPs and MPs of what this fundamental change is that we are proposing here. We say this, this is our proposal – an unemployed health care worker with higher education can be trained professionally. This is our message, to get specialization from the area of the deficit branches of medicine, dentistry, or pharmacies about its cost (voluntary), provided that it completed the traineeship and passed the professional exam. Gentlemen, we're starting with every single individual who's enrolled in medical school, who now wants to sign up for some specialization, who can decide on his own whether he's going to enlist a specialisation if he has the means to pay for it, not to have the individual ministry, government or state decide what will happen to her or his professional internship or career. Gentlemen, I think it's some kind of civilization fluid, so we can't treat individuals here as his minister, and that follows from your 3rd position because he says extremely of the first-member position, so the minister determines... We don't think that's supposed to happen. Let's imagine, for example, a person A who now wants to sign up for specialization wants to be a top cardio surgeon and can't because there's a possibility that the minister, or the ministry, can't say - you can't. Where's that? Gentlemen, we invite you to make the market a final criterion for something. The example of Germany is often cited here. Our doctors, here, we've all noticed it here, there's no dilemma, they're going to Germany. We've heard, learning German. They go there, and in Germany there are some branches of medicine that are also now deficiting. Why? Because doctors in that country are also looking for better conditions to achieve their professional ambitions. Has the German state, gentlemen, prevented any man, a doctor from any branch of medicine, from developing his professional career as this person wishes? It's unimaginable that the state is telling me now – well, you can specialize and you can't. We just want to do it the following way – that an individual has an opportunity in his country to define his life and his professional career without the arbitration of the ministry, the Committee on Health, Government or State. Gentlemen, I just have one more addition here to tell you. Based on these discussions of Mrs Rakonjac, Mr Radivojjevic, this morning, other people and all parties here, I still think there is a chance that we can adopt this amendment and send people a message – perfect yourself. Rate whether you're going to be better here or somewhere else, and our country just needs to create conditions for our people to be the best here. By not accepting this amendment our country says – we are not interested, it is complex, it will take a long time. The only obstacle I see now, with regard to the possibility of adopting this amendment, is that the amendment came from one of the strongest opposition parties in Serbia today. I don't think that should be an impregnable obstacle.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8117	The word is Mr Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Pavicevic said that this morning on the Committee he was under the impression that many were on his side and that he had some hope that this amendment would be adopted. I don't know, we probably weren't on the same board. He may have been physically present there, and this is how he was on another committee. Of the 14 present, 12 voted against, and he and another MP voted in favour. With his two votes, he concluded that there was some hope for this amendment to be adopted. This amendment is about how little Perica imagines life. You have to understand that writing an amendment on specializations, and not knowing about it is a very complicated thing and often can lead you on a completely wrong path. To acquire a specialization requires capacity, a mentor is needed to lead. If we load up to one of the university professors the unplanned, first the specialists that are planned, then if we let all the unemployed who have the money go and they can put in that special, and then we load them up, and then we load them to his students, and then we load him up with the subspecies, and then we load him up with the patients and what he has to do, and he'll write the papers, and even if he has a girlfriend, then he can kill himself. It is absolutely physically impossible to create such a system on which you will do something through chaos and create an expert. Imagine, now that 30 specialists come to cardiosurgery. When will they see the heart? They won't be able to approach the table, operate and practice, or gain any knowledge. Finish your specialization and you won't get into the hands of a scalpel or a holder, nothing. There's some things I need to know. What we're talking about isn't what we're talking about, so come on, people, everybody has a right to take specials, it's pure populism. We'll make 300 cardio surgeons who won't work anywhere. Every plan and bad plan is better than not having any plan. We must make a planful life for this land, and not always demagoguely go to it. Give everyone the right, give everyone something to do, what we will do, we will make noise, and make a state out of it. No, that's not what the country says. The state makes sense. The state is being organised and the state is being made professional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8119	The word is made by the People's Messenger Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Quote a member of the Rules of Procedure and please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8120	Gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, honourable ministers, honored guests, respected chairman, of course I will quote a member of the Rules of Procedure, as I always do when I report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't remind me of that. I'm a decent man, I know the rules, and I always follow those rules. Members 106 and 107 were injured. Article 106. – the speaker can only talk about the agenda point on which the...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8121	I'm sorry, but I still have to interrupt. You've already quoted those members of the Rules of Procedure, they've already been quoted. According to this amendment, these members have already been quoted. You can't do it again, both 103, and 104, and 107, and 108, and 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8122	Can I explain why you're wrong?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8123	You can't follow the same members who have already been on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8124	I think you're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8125	I can't give you my word. You can't do the same articles that are quoted under this amendment. If you know the Rules of Procedure, you must know that. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I know the Rules of Procedure. The MP has a right to... You don't have the same members that are advertised. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: If not the same basis, respected chairman, I am right. Read the Rules of Procedure. ) The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kanberi. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8126	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, in your explanation for the adoption of this law, you yourself have stated that indicators indicate the need to allow healthcare professionals to be referred to specialisation after a traineeship and a professional examination, and in order to enrich the healthcare system in the coming years with professional specialist staff, which would provide quality health care to patients. This amendment provides for the possibility of specialising and specialising in jobless healthcare workers with high education and passed a professional exam, which would be financed by interested healthcare professionals through their own resources. This amendment allows a greater number of healthcare professionals to carry out a specialisation that would be financed by their own resources. We thus, to a certain extent, create equal opportunities for advancement in the profession and create new opportunities, but also for the development of health care. So far, the number of specializations depended on the decision of the Minister, i.e. on the possibility of budgets and states that are very modest in terms of needs, even in far more developed countries than ours. We fully agree with the bill's proposal, when it comes to the need to improve the health system, and especially in the area of human resources, by creating a larger number of expert specialist staff. We also feel that we should have gone a few steps further. One of these steps has just been contained in this amendment proposal. Health institutions and patients need professional staff who are able to provide adequate and quality health care services. We are aware that there are problems of other species, which are not human beings and which directly affect both human beings and the quality and efficiency of the health system and health care. We agreed that working conditions are a very important prerequisite for everything that we seek with these laws and laws. I want to commend your willingness to move towards creating conditions for better and better quality health care in Sandzak. In this you have our full support and assistance in every sense, both field assistance and in contact with potential donors because health exceeds politics and because it is necessary to push the policy out of the health system. In order to open the possibility of a meaningful determination of specialisation, but also in order to provide adequate healthcare in Sandzak, it is necessary to access the establishment of a clinical hospital centre in Novi Pazar, and for which all the necessary conditions exist. It's something that's vital to all the citizens who live in Sandzak. It is also important to remove all obstacles that stand in the way of the start of work of the Institute of Public Health in Novi Pazar, as well as to allow the health institution in Sjenica to obtain general hospital status. And to sum up by following the spirit...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8127	I'm listening, just keep going. And the minister listens to you. Ask your colleagues to listen to you too.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8128	Please, a colleague wants you to listen to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8130	That's what you should have done. I don't need to ask. You're the chair of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8131	I can't, really. I feel like I'm some kind of manager.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8132	I will only sum up by following the spirit and meaning of this bill, the amendment we have submitted aims to enable this law to also obtain so-called. volunteer specializations for those healthcare professionals who have their own resources so they can finance their further training in medicine, dentistry, or pharmacies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8133	The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. You have as authorized one minute and 20 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8134	President-in-Office, respected ministers, I am discussing the amendment, and all amendments are with a desire to allow young doctors to come to work as soon as possible and get specialization. I asked you yesterday what the ministry did to prevent corruption in Serbia, so that we could prevent the money that Serbian citizens earn, which goes into the Republic of Serbia's budget, from corruption. One question – what about all donations from 2000 to 2014 or 12? Where are the money that could be used for Serbian citizens, for patients, for young doctors, for specializations? What happened to the tender that was annulled, which is the Ministry of Health...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8135	I'll have to take your word for it. We told you about the amendments. What kind of tenders now? So don't, please. One minute, to calm down colleagues who tend to talk about something else and get out of the bench. One minute. [[After break, 17.19 hours]] We can keep going. You have to call back to give you my word. Please, just about the amendment, I interrupt every now and then, no matter what MP group. The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8137	And this amendment, and the previous amendments, were designed to allow young doctors to come to specialization as soon as possible. I ask, when the minister says -- we don't have enough money, we don't have enough conditions to allow young doctors to specialize, we don't have enough money to give these specialists a medical opportunity in operating halls, we don't have the instruments, we ask, a lot of money's gone missing in Serbia, in these big affairs, so I asked what happened to the tender that the health ministry called and was annulled?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8138	I'm taking your word for it. The word has Dr. Darko Laketic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8139	President-in-Office, honourable ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, first of all, I am very pleased to say that a large number of MPs have really taken active part in the discussion and I see that the topic is very important and very important, not only for the MPs, but I also consider it important for the citizens of the Serbian state. First of all, I really understand the proposal's efforts to find together with all of us the best solution to certain problems in this area that we are talking about today, but I will say my position that I personally do not think that we should accept this amendment. I hope to have an adequate argument. The suggestion that all unemployed health care professionals with higher education are granted specializations personally is not good, that's why. A careful analysis of the personnel I think should be this starting base and the foundation of that health system that we're talking about and that order, not anarchy, must be that primary postulate that we're talking about today. What is very important is that this would not satisfy the needs of the health system, I am now saying if the amendment were adopted, the needs of the health system would not be met, and on the other hand, there would be an unplanned professional training of a number of doctors, which I personally don't think would contribute to improving health care in our country. Also, this second part of the amendment on the specialisation proposal is, above all, the proposal is to propose that the proposal for a decision on the approval of specialisation and rope specialisation be made by the Director on the proposal of the head of the relevant department. Personally, I think that the existing way is more than a good and existing solution, and that is, above all, that the proposal for specialist and subspecial training comes from expert advice. We know that the expert advice represents one body that is made up of the most important, most important, favorite doctors in one health institution, and I think that the expert advice really represents a relevant body for this initial act, for this initiative. So, for these very reasons, I find this proposal, so this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8140	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8141	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, an interesting topic, an interesting debate I did not enjoy this afternoon, I believe most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not and I don't have any health contact points, except one good part of my family and my family are in health care, but I appreciate the work these people do for one society, they do for our country, because without people, without healthy people, we don't have a country, we don't have a future. No doctors, no specialists to hope for. What kind of state are we building? For SNS, this amendment is not acceptable, it is not acceptable because we consider it to be a sort of cloudy issue, those issues that I can ask as a citizen, as a citizen who is concerned not only about personal health but also about family health, but also about the health of the entire nation. No one asked a question today, and I'm going to ask you, Mr. Minister, who's responsible for coming into this situation, who's responsible because we don't have enough specialists, who's responsible for coming here, you came out very bravely and responsibly, and you went out to people and said, "We're broke with that and those specialists"? A large number of citizens of our country won't be able to get close to health care. For many people, going to a regional centre where there are probably specialists is effort and financial and any other effort. Yes, and this topic, which tangs one, I believe a small number of people in our state who are unemployed, and they are ready and able to go after a six-year study, and on average, the Faculty of Medicine in Nis, is 8.6 years. Do they have financial opportunities to finance their own specialization? This is a collision of different concepts.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8142	You're wasting group time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8145	This is a collision of different concepts, a conceptually advanced party to make a plan and this is what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. I'm grateful to you, Mr. Lonchart, for what you're doing. This is a concept where these people will be sent a clear message – don't just look at the state, form your companies, form your companies, do your offices, provide a service, get a job, need this society. But I'm not going to stop, not today, not in the future, watching a single important topic split up, divorce. There's talk of local problems that there's a lot in our country. Who's responsible for this condition? Who's responsible because we don't have enough specialists? Who's responsible and who forced us to come into this situation to give an opportunity to people who don't have to go through two years, unless I'm wrong, to get into the specialization process? Why are we texting citizens today to be worried? A specialist isn't born overnight. A specialist doctor pretends to be, as my colleagues told me, four to six years of specialization takes place. Is it small? Now, as of now, in 2014, will we be able to think only about 2020 that we have a sufficient number of specialists? Who's responsible? Who's responsible for this state of health? Who's responsible because we don't have enough specialists? Who's responsible because specialists are now or on their way abroad, or on their way to retirement? Who is responsible because people in Serbia are concerned? And he'll get a job, and he'll make a living, and there's a mistake in every profession. In health care, the mistake is the most expensive. Let's not. Anyone can say – I'm sorry, the doctor can't say – I'm sorry. That's why I have a huge respect for these people and responsibilities and everything that's in their hands. I'm saying this as a citizen, but don't, because of the topic that's tanging, a few people or a few dozen people in Serbia, with a big question about whether they have after exhausting studies that last six years, and rarely on average and nine years, whether they have money and whether they're thinking about additional funding for the next four to six years of their specialization, or how they're going to start a job. The SNS concept will allow them to employ, not in the state, in their companies, their offices, to employ other colleagues. And for the third time I will ask and continue to ask in this Parliament and in our public – who is responsible because there was no plan in the previous 12, 14 years? Who's responsible for not thinking about specialists? Who's responsible for the wrong plans? Who's responsible because all our citizens at this point believe they share my opinion that has nothing to do with politics, but it has to do with life, that they're worried? In their midst, in one Leskovac, Piroth, one Babusnica in southern Serbia, where the hardest living is, and living everywhere is hard, they have no business, they have no future, and now they have no health, they have no doctors, they have no specialists, what to hope for? Who is responsible for this condition in our health care? So don't put topics that will cloud reality, let people, responsible people, and that's why I'm picking you up, and I support you, Mr. Lonchar, and as a friend and as an associate, as a responsible man who worked responsibly, whether within the clinical or emergency center, to keep working planically, that at least we can tell our citizens, if we are now at risk, we have a plan, sleep more peacefully, we know who we are schooling, we know where these people are going to work, it's not just health in Belgrade, health is in the King, and in Babushnica, in Sombor, anywhere in this country. This is the plan and this is the draft law on amendments to the Health Protection Act and this is one of those steps. I'm not going to let the wild subject get distracted by what's the point of who's responsible because all our citizens don't have access to specialists, who's responsible because 12 years has no plan or the plan is wrong, bad, and now, on top of that, by delegating topics that are irrelevant to this law or less relevant to this law trying to get the subject off the ground? Therefore, the SNS will allow correct and shorter discussions to put this law to the vote as soon as possible and I believe that during the day to continue to do your job responsibly, Mr Loncar, and in this you will have the support of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8146	The word has Enis Imamovic, you have the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8147	I just have a few questions. Who's gonna be responsible today? Who will be responsible for the future? The problem with political parties is that they only observe the state through their mandate. What was used in the previous term as an excuse, and it wasn't in my term, I don't care, and what happens in the next term, I'll do my best when we win power in the elections. What citizens feel is both the previous mandate and the one before that and the one that will come after that, and my question is who will be responsible for the future in which our citizens live? I have another question, which office can a student who's just finished medical school open? We in the amendment are not talking about any blurry, we're talking about the essence, we're not talking about unplanned specialization, we're talking about the part of the planning specialization that can make the budget easier. We have loaded the solution for the deficiting specialist staff only on the fragile back of the budget and made the specialists wait for bread from the budget and from the state, and we know well what state the budget, the state, and that it cannot meet all the needs of health care, or the needs of specialist staff. According to this proposal, a solution like I said, is attached to the fragile back of the budget. This is about the desire for young people to be hired, to take matters into their own hands, and on the other hand, in an indirect way, to make them wait for a solution from the state and to sit with their hands cut off, waiting for it to give them space for specialization and possible space to finally go the way they plotted when they were writing down studies.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8148	Thank you. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradic and Biljana Hasanovic-Korac submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8149	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us another law in a series of emergency procedures, where the Ministry of Health, without respecting the procedure that should be in force in this high house, without public debate, has put forward a proposal to amend Article 184, which I will say a little later, and that I am right, speaks the following. In point 9, in the material delivered by the Ministry of Health to the MPs, it is said, on the question whether the interested parties had the opportunity to state their position, the Ministry of Health gives to the MPs, you who have carefully read the material you encountered on this passage, that "under Article 41(2), paragraph 3. The Government's Rules of Procedure, the consolidated text, etc., reached a conclusion 05 No 011 of 22 July 2014 adopting the Ministry of Health's proposal not to hold a public debate on the draft Law amending the Health Protection Act. “ A very interesting sentence and a very interesting finding for something that goes according to the urgent procedure in front of the MPs to adopt an amendment to the law. Since I see that the assembly majority will vote this amendment to Article 184, but also for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, in order to know what we are talking about here so strongly, I would like to tell you what the essence of Article 184 is. The essence of Article 184 is how to get specializations from the network plan and from private institutions, meaning that specializations and pathways are approved and how these specializations are obtained, and the reason for changing this member is that I see that you have all missed in the discussion – deficit specializations in Serbian health, if I understand correctly, Mr. Minister. So the amendment of Article 184 is based on the need for certain specialities missing from Serbian health care. To make it more clear to people how specializations are obtained, until now, until this member is changed, specialization can only be obtained by one who has a permanent working relationship in the institutions of the Network Plan, which are, translated into our language, to allow citizens to understand, state health institutions. It's a network plan facility. So, in order for someone to get a specialization based on a specialisation plan created by the Institute of Public Health and the Ministry of Health, they must be constantly employed. It'd be all right if they didn't exist. The famous staff plans provided by the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Public Health "Batut" every 1 January, under the health institutions contract, where the institution can have health workers and associates. All institutions in the Republic of Serbia have excess personnel. So you have, let's say, 95% of the workers of a healthcare institution are paid through the budget, i.e. through the Republic Health Insurance Fund and 5% from the so-called personal incomes made by healthcare institutions and this is the surplus that has been discussed for months and years in Serbian health. The institutions are taken into account in various ways because staff plans are not taken into account that someone is getting sick, not taking into account annual holidays, not taking into account the structure and schedule of the population in the territory and health care institution, but rather doing this in a typical manner, so we have a situation that large homes of health, such as the local health care centre, have, according to the staff plan, a surplus of doctors and de facto, on the ground, lack doctors because they have a dissident network. There are 54 villages where he can't cover the doctors, because he doesn't have enough patients in those villages, and they're away from Nis and they need health care. These specialities, especially as the Ministry sent us here, and the deficit specialities that cause the amendment of Article 184 are surgical branches, pathology, ophthalmology, meaning all those branches where we have waiting lists, and the reason for the amendment of Article 184, where two new categories are introduced: this is that so far the need to have two years of working experience at a permanent work in a health care facility to get specialization, and that is not irrelevant so far, because then, for those two years, people who are older colleagues, so on. The mentors who lead the beginner through work and introduce him into working with patients, they estimate whether he is for a specialty or not, which he would run for, means, it is deleted, and secondly, it is introduced that students, i.e. Doctors who have graduated from college, performed mandatory medical training and passed a professional exam, can get specialization, but only, if I understand correctly, Mr. Minister, from the deficit branches. So, not all the specials. You have said this well here – especially from the position of the 1st member for the area of deficits of medicine, dentistry or pharmacies, the Ministry can be an unemployed health worker with higher education, who completed a traineeship and passed a professional exam, to approve specialization as well as a narrow specialization according to a passed specialist exam. That's what the article says. This means that at the Niška Clinical Center, where the anesthesiologists are missing and where we have 3,050 employees arranged and where we have, say, 200, or 100, or 50, I don't know the exact number of uncontracted doctors who can get specialization and have experience and affinity for that field of medicine, they won't be able to get specialization, but they'll get those who have finished medical school and who have resigned and passed a professional exam. That's what it says in your article. I don't know what you think, but it says here. In order for a doctor who is in the clinical center to be overnumbered, i.e. He's not contracted, he's got a specialization, he's got to meet one of the conditions, and he says he has to be permanently employed, and he's thought to be contracted with a health fund. That's what it says in your article. For the sake of Serbian citizens, my amendment that I have invested in a member, and I will read to you a member who gave the Ministry of Health, in the original form, so that people can see what it is. Thus, Article 184 states: “A health worker and a health associate with a higher education, who founded a working relationship on a fixed period of time with a medical institution or private practice, can be trained professionally, obtained specialisation, provided that he has completed his traineeship and passed a professional exam unless this law is otherwise determined. A health care professional with higher education can be completed in close speciality, provided that he has performed health care tasks under this law, as a specialist in certain branches of medicine, dentistry or pharmacies. Exceptionally from Article 1 – this is the interesting part in this article – for the areas of deficitary branches of medicine, dentistry or pharmacies, the Ministry can be an unemployed health care worker with higher education, who completed a traineeship and passed a professional exam, to approve specialization as well as narrow specialization, according to a passed specialist exam. “ In translation, it means that all those who have completed medical or dentistry or pharmacies, have performed a mandatory medical training and passed a professional exam, will have to pay their own specialisation costs and to support themselves for all time specialization, while those people who are in constant work and who through the institution where they are employed receive specialization will receive a salary from the Republic Health Insurance Fund, as a contracted worker and institution will pay them specialization. The Minister for each calendar year, no later than 31 December of the current year, makes a decision in the areas of medicine, dentistry, or pharmacies, which are deficited in the Republic of Serbia based on the opinion of the public health institute established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia under the law. The approval of specialisation and narrow specialisation shall be carried out by a health institution, i.e. private practice in accordance with the professional training plan set out in Article 183. The decision on the approval of specialisation and rope specialisation in accordance with the position of the 5th member shall be made by the Director of Health Institutions, i.e. the Founder of Private Practice. The Minister shall give consent to the decision referred to in Article 6, etc. A healthcare professional, i.e. a health associate, is required to conclude a contract with a healthcare institution, i.e. private practice on rights, obligations and responsibilities during professional training during specialisation, i.e. a rope specialisation. A very interesting part of this member who says – a health care worker, or health associate, is required to conduct in a health care facility from the network plan for a working relationship for a double period of time from the period of specialization, i.e. a rope specialization according to a specialised examination. This has been the case so far in the Health Protection Act, but this concerned people who have a permanent working relationship in a health care institution and who the institution is funding to complete the specialisation. According to this article, this applies to these people who are going to school, perfect themselves and pay themselves specialization and will literally sign with the institution, as this member says, because otherwise I don't see him standing there, that he will spend twice as long a period of time working in that institution when he finishes his specialization. I'm asking, how are they going to spend, like, unnecessarily or inconclusive? Here is the basic point of the problem that the state, i.e. The ministry is trying to get everything that was supposed to be a normal renewal of medical personnel to a private cost, because nobody can convince me that an orthopedist, who is disabled, that an anesthesiologist, a cardio surgeon, a vascular surgeon, a pathologist, because because someone didn't plan well, no, because health institutions because of the staff plan they have at the beginning of the year and a certain number of salaries they receive from the RFO do not have the opportunity to receive a finished doctor who will be sent to specialise. With this ministry, we are trying to make up for the lack of speciality, which will occur over a period of time, by getting finished specialists on their expenses, and by making first and second-class citizens with finished doctors. How many will be able to fund himself for four, five years and his family and pay for the specialization? Are they the best or the ones who are in the situation? That is why we need to think hard about voting this member. I propose, if the Assembly is in the mood to accept my amendment, which reads: “A health worker and a health associate with a higher education who has completed a traineeship, has passed a professional exam and has performed health work for two years after a professional examination, can be trained professionally, receive specialization in accordance with the plan for professional training of a health institution, and if he is in a working relationship, and if he is unemployed for the deficitary specialities to be resolved by the minister. The Minister for each calendar year, no later than 31 December of the current year, makes a decision in the field of medicine, dentistry, or pharmacies that are deficited in the Republic of Serbia, based on the opinion of the Public Health Institute established for the territory of the Republic in accordance with the law. A healthcare professional, or a health associate, may carry out health care from an area that specializes only under the supervision of an authorised healthcare professional, a health associate or a mentor. A health care professional with a high level of professional training, which is in a working relationship, can be completed in close speciality in accordance with the plan for professional training of a healthcare institution, and a healthcare professional with high professional training who is unemployed for the deficit line of speciality according to the Minister's solution. Approval of specialisation and close specialisation for healthcare professionals, i.e. healthcare associates, engaged in a health care institution, i.e. the owner of private practice, in accordance with the training plan set out in Article 183. The decision to approve the specialisation, the specialisation of a healthcare professional and health associate who are in a working relationship, in accordance with Article 5, shall be made by the Director of a medical institution, i.e. the Founder. The decision of the Minister referred to in points 7 and 8 of this article is final and can be initiated against him." This aims to ensure that the proposed amendment provides that healthcare professionals, or healthcare professionals, have to perform health care work for two years before they can professionally improve, or get specialization. I believe that given the importance of health care, it is necessary for a healthcare professional to perform a certain period of health work in order to clearly determine which branch of medicine can achieve the best results and, in line with that, to be referred to the appropriate specialisation. This way, with the introduction of additional training measures, we would have better quality health staff. Mr. Minister, as far as these additional measures are concerned, I suggest that health institutions be opened for volunteer work and professional training for two years according to the mentoring model for the number of persons according to the natural drain plan of each individual institution from the network plan. Two, to arrange a legal framework to accept volunteer work as the basis for fulfilling the requirements of two years of work in a health institution. Under three, in the first act to approve the deficit specializations of the corresponding analysis of quotas per part-time for a specific territory of the statistical region for unemployed persons, which have obtained a certain working experience for at least two years, and according to your data there are 900 in Serbia, I think doctors who have a certain time to work. Under four, it is necessary to analyse the deficit areas of health professions for the institutions of the network plan to do an analysis of competitive mentors in specialist areas, meeting the conditions in the teaching databases of the medical professions for the implementation of specialist and rope specialist studies programmes. Finally, the above measures establish a programme of clear and precise controlled activities aimed at addressing the problem of the staff deficits of a specific specialty. I think this proposal of Article 184 that I have given through the amendment would be far more meaningful, comprehensive and give much better results than a member who has proposed by the Government, because it really is the way of indetermination and puts finished students of medicine, dentistry and pharmacies especially where the most complex and demanding specialities are in an unequal position, because we will get these specializations to be given to those who can finance, and not to those who are the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8150	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8151	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I think that yesterday in the principle debate we agreed less, but we all agreed that in our focus of interest, the patient, the citizen, and today we seem to be listening to a rather reverse story. We, respecting the need to speed up the creation of new personnel, i.e. to compensate for the deficit we found ourselves in when it comes to specialists, have tabled an amendment to the two positions of this member relating to the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Namely, we have proposed a supplement to Article 4 which says that the Minister for each calendar year, no later than 31 December of the current year, makes a decision on the areas of medicine, dentistry, or pharmacies, which are deficited in the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the opinion of the Public Health Institute established for the territory of the Republic and here we have added: respecting the law of the defined jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and sentence – from the Public Health Institute established for the territory of the Republic of Vojvodina, in accordance with the law. Can you help me out a little bit? I can't get used to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8152	I'm ringing, but they don't answer my calls.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8153	In order to propose such an amendment, i.e. supplementing this position, this proposed supplement is given in order to take a more comprehensive and complete view of the needs for specialisations in public-owned health institutions established on the territory of the AP Vojvodina through the exercise of the competence of the Public Health Institute for the territory of the AP Vojvodina, established in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the responsibilities of the AP Vojvodina, as well as through social care for the health of the AP to monitor the health status of the population and the work of health services in its territory, as well as the care of the implementation of established health care priorities, which as the jurisdiction of the AP is prescribed by the provisions of the members of the Health Protection Act. We have also proposed a supplement to Article 7 which says that the minister of the solution agrees with the decision of the 6th member. I would like to remind you that the decision to approve a rope specialisation is made by the director of a medical institution, i.e. the founder of private practice. We have here proposed the addition of this member and we say that the Minister gives the solution consent to the decision of the 6th member's position, and for healthcare professionals and health associates from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, according to the formerly obtained opinion of the Head of the Regional Authority of the Health Administration. Why did we suggest that? The proposed solutions would provide for the participation of the AP Vojvodina in the process of granting specialisation and tight specialisation, since there is no minimum information in this area for now on what specialisations are approved and which institutions in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. In fact, the whole procedure is conducted between health institutions established in the territory of the AP Vojvodina with the Ministry of Health which the province cannot influence, and of vital importance for the work of health institutions, the founder of which is the province and for which it has original competences, in accordance with the law, as well as for primary ones, whose establishment is not the founder, but is required to monitor the work of health care in the entire territory of the province. If the responsibilities defined, i.e. given to the AP Vojvodina in the field of health care, it is seen that the Regional Secretariat of Health, Social Policy and Demography makes a proposal to the Minister of Health to determine the number of trainees in health institutions based on AP Vojvodina, gives a proposal to the Minister responsible for Health, a health development plan for institutions located in Vojvodina territory, etc., it gives an opinion on the proposal for obtaining the name “primarius” for doctors of medicine, dentists and graduate pharmacists from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, so it was quite logical that in the case of selecting specialists, it was also possible for the competent authority of the AP Vojvodina to give an opinion. In this regard, we felt that it was entirely too much for our amendment to be adopted. The ministry, however, has refused to rely only on the provisions of the Health Act, not respecting the provisions of the Law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8154	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and the magistrate, Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8155	Thank you. The amendment, which my colleague Aleksandra Jerkov and I have submitted, is a resulting amendment to the amendment to Article 1. It is an amendment to Article 2 and it reads that this Article 2 is deleted. In the proposed text of the law, Article 2 speaks of the entry into force of the law and says it enters into force eight days from the day of its publication, as does the Constitution. What is interesting about this amendment is that, in an explanation submitted by the Government, why it does not accept the amendment to Article 2 which deletes entry into force, the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting amendments under regular number 5 and the explanation for this amendment reads: “The amendment is not accepted for the reasons why the bill will allow for an increase in the number of expert staff, specialists and narrow specialists under 55 years of age in health institutions from the network plan, which would improve the age structure of employees, increase the number of staff from the deficit branches of medicine, dentists and pharmacies, i.e. providing better quality and accessible healthcare. The proposed legislative solution aims to provide deficit professional staff in the relevant areas of health care." You gave me this explanation for eradicating the law. That's what I'm trying to tell you every time I get an explanation from the government that's being written because it doesn't really matter what kind of explanation is going to be given to the MP. Until we understand that the thoroughness of the reasoning that you provide to me is necessary, in order to create a crumb of trust with everything else you're saying, we're hardly going to have real development in an area that you and I are interested in. So when you tell me because of the surface that the reasoning is the same, then I have the right to give you notice that either no one has read the amendment, or no one cares that they respect their own regulations about how the government is obliged to provide an explanation to the MP. It can't be the same explanation for an amendment that speaks of the entry into force of the law, as well as a thematic amendment that defends the whole idea of the law. It's probably gonna take us a long time to understand that this is inadmissible. For a long time to understand how much we're all about winning that only here in reason, it really does write a reason why the government doesn't think a subsequent amendment should be adopted that speaks of eradicating a member, which speaks of the entry into force of the law. I have to submit that consequent amendment, if I want to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the uniform methodological rules. What's a problem in common is I know that most of my colleagues, who are currently supporting the ruling coalition, don't understand that the government thinks she doesn't have the same obligation when it comes to respecting the procedure. There is. While this first line of procedure, and the procedure is culture, we will not be able to reach together, there will be hardly any real dialogue that otherwise, whose need is quite obvious in the debate that has been under way about one member, will be changed by a member who should have been relatively harmless. We will not share the joy of a common success in changing for the better in the health care system, if we do not read the amendments or consider – never mind, this amendment will refuse, so we do not have to write an explanation. That we have awareness that it's as much a part of the rule of law as words about the need to have more specialists and subspecies, that it's exactly the same when it comes to defending and building a rule of law. So, until we understand that, we're hardly going to have any measurable advances. In me, whether I am an opposition or I support you under some bill or in general, you will always have a partner for dialogue and you will have someone who will have a critical word for that kind of surface to delete me on an amendment that deletes a member of the law's entry into force an argument concerning a completely different member of the law. If negligent is present at that level, everything you can think of, what a negligence there is outside the eyes of an MP who reads the papers. It's unnecessary, because our joint job here is to build trust between two different institutions and that people, who we all sit here, would trust your idea of a larger number of specialists, in your idea of health reform. I regret to say that the practice of both these governments and the government's 2012 mandate, the Government of 2008. - In 2012, Government in 2007. - 2008, Government 2004. - In 2007, the government continued in 2001. The Assembly doesn't need to change. You have to change in your relationship with what we're building together as a legal state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-31-0.u8156	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, and given that it had previously voted on the first three items of the agenda, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Sunday, 31 August 2014, starting at 19.05, as the day for voting on the remainder of the session's session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 163 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Health Protection Act in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 against – three abstentions – there are no votes, seven of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, most of the votes. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – 14 abstentions – there is no vote, not 149 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – eight, abstentions – there is no vote of 158 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Kalimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – five, abstentions – there is no vote, 161 of the total of 172 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr. Blagoja Bradic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – five, abstentions – no, 159 of the total of 172 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – one abstention – there is no vote of 160 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – 22, abstentions – there is no, 142 of the 172 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the bill amending the Health Protection Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, four of the 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a bill amending the Health Protection Act. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 30 August 2014 at 11 o'clock and five minutes, pointed to a violation of members 96 and 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – 12, abstentions – there is no, 136 of the total of 152 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Mr Alexander Jerkov, at a session on 30 August 2014 at 14 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – 15 abstentions – there is no, 131 of the 150 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 30 August 2014 at 14 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 107, 108 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – 11 abstentions – there is no, 136 of the 151 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 31 August 2014 at 17 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – eight, abstentions – there is no vote, 138 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Thank you.
