ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2118	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 124 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2119	Dear Presidents, respected colleagues, a year and a half ago, Marija Obradovic, Vesna Milikic and I applied to the Minister of Education at the time, today's MP, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, to consider the founding of the draft amendment to the Law on Copyright, which was contained in the letters of the Association of Serbian Drama Artists. This was not a political request, since the three MPs who handed it over or submitted it to the minister from different political parties are our desire to equalise the rights of artists. I'll read the memo forwarded to the Ministry and the Ministry's reply. We suggest that Article 117 reads: The interpreter has the right to issue and re-emission his interpretation from the video, 2) public statement of his interpretation which is broadcast from the video, 3) public statement of his interpretation from the video released. The right to compensation referred to in Article 1 of this Article may be effected only through a collectively-performing organisation of copyright and related rights. The method of payment of the fee referred to in Article 1(1) shall be determined by Article 127 of this Act. Explanation: We do not have different colleges for film and theatre actors, but everyone works on all the media, so we have a situation that many actors play in musicals and that these musicals are broadcast and re-emissioned via television. Today, opera shows are recorded on video, not just as a tone record on a sound carrier, and as such are also broadcast and re-emissioned on television. Music artists no longer use a phonogram like before, but their interpretations are recorded on video, music videos. That is why we believe it is necessary to amend Article 117 because there has been technological progress in the way of recording and broadcasting, but also more sophisticated demands of theatre. That would avoid the chaos of law enforcement and equate the rights of artists. This memo was submitted to the Minister of Education a year and a half ago. I can ask, and I would like to ask the Minister in charge of Education, Science and Technological Development whether and when any changes to that memo will be considered on the agenda. I would also like to know if and how much the former minister has done on this issue in the previous period of the day when he was handed a letter to him until the day his post ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2120	The word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2121	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, I refer my question today to the finance minister regarding the blocking of the Cup of Europe account. Before I ask the question, first of all, I want to welcome these measures that the new government is preparing for new employment, i.e. for reliefs for companies that employ new workers. Also, I'd like to say that these reliefs won't help much if there's no work in this country. With years of private experience, I know that businesses in Serbia have not failed because of taxes and taxes to the state, but our businesses are failing because of the lack of work and poor management in these companies. Minister Krstic, here is our tax administration, i.e. the tax administration of the Republic of Serbia, blocked a state-owned company and that illegal enterprise is currently in a silent strike. I'm asking you if anyone from the IRS has put on paper how many states they lose if they continue to block this company. This is the 2005, 2006 and 2007 debt. The company is in restructuring. It's a state-owned company. So the state can collect its debt from this company after the sale, i.e. from the sale price of the company. How much does it cost the state to have 50 workers go to the bureau today because the company was at peace with its obligations? So, the state has to pay for the social programme, 40-50 families stay on welfare, the state doesn't raise money for social protection, pension, no VAT. That's what a shame it is to be boastful of an individual in the IRS. That's why I wouldn't want your answer to be the tax administration or some institution to blame. I ask you to name us an individual responsible for blocking this company and for the damage it suffers. If I tell you that this company currently has four hotels and it works normally, pays all taxes and contributions and that the state blocks it and keeps it in a blockade because of the boast of an individual, whom I hope you will determine which one and that 50 workers in a poor municipality like Surdulica are left out of work, and we here, as the prime minister said, work day and night to pass laws. Someone should apply those laws, Minister. My question to you is: is it reasonable that, because of the intent and responsibility of the individual in the tax administration, the state-owned company is being held by force in order to safely go bankrupt? It's a company that was considered to be very successful by the day of the blockade. All of its legal obligations to workers and to the state, as well as to suppliers, were settled neatly. I ask you, with your influence, to remove this company as soon as possible, to continue to operate, and the state will collect its debt safely from the sale. By the time I got back, I'd like to ask these stimulating employment measures do you have any special reliefs for undeveloped municipalities in Serbia? As you know, we have 47 underdeveloped municipalities. I'm particularly interested in southern Serbia. Thank you, and I expect answers from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2122	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2123	Dear President, my question will be addressed to Minister of Education Srdjan Verbic, given that we are facing high-grade hyperproduction in schools and universities and that this is one of our biggest problems in the field of education in Serbia. According to the Office for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education, each other's eighth grade student was excellent, and last year, in a generation of primary school graduates, we had the fact that every week the student was a wolf. It's similar at universities. In 2001, there were 1147 academics at all state universities with an average score higher than 8.5, and today there were about 17500 of them, and the average score in the period from 2001 to today was raised from 7.5 to 8.5. Sharing high grades without cover is a big social evil, giving a fake picture of our schools, and students won't be able to help when they want to get a job someday. Schools are running more or less, which will have better successes. That's why they get big prizes. Some teachers who hold strict criteria are often under pressure from the entire collective to give in. The consequences of these trends in schools are huge differences between grades and students' achievements in independent tests. So our fives on the PISA tests barely become triples, and for great students, based on the results of the PISA tests, it turns out that they're functionally illiterate. Too much reproductive knowledge of our students, and the lack of reproductive knowledge is a long-rooted problem and Minister of Education Srdjan Verbić is well known. Since you have not been in a situation to change our education system so far, my question for you is – what exactly will you do to reduce the number of wolves and replace this reproductive knowledge with functional? My suggestion is that we have as many independent tests as possible. The state has to provide funds for this, but I'm interested in what exactly will the Ministry of Education do on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2124	The word has the People's MP Velinka Tosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2125	Honored presidents, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, my question is to the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, which is to say – which company is responsible for maintaining the access channels in the Drin River in Banja Koviljaca and which person is empowered and responsible to regulate the gaps, i.e. raises and lowers the valves on these channels, in order to prevent water spillage in Drin when increasing the water supply? It's about the next one. In the 1980s, when a defensive rash was made on the Drina River in Banja Koviljaca, the company "Serbian" built a system of leaks to allow water pouring from Mount Gučevo, as well as water from rain and natural springs to be poured out in control of the Drin River. This regulation is made by having valves closed and opened as needed, or designed for the situation when the river Drina is raised and to stop its swimming of the lower part of the spa. These valves have raised and lowered the faces that have been engaged in civil protection, that civil protection has not existed in our space for many years. Handling those valves seemed incompetent. Ten years ago, no one keeps channels. Many are buried, deliberately or by accident. The water is missed by unprofessional faces, creating major problems and material damage to the citizens of Banja Koviljača. Citizens addressed the authorities in the city administration of Loznica, presented their problems, but did not find their understanding, let alone solving them. The Mayan disasters caused the floods. About 240 houses of the lower part of Banja Koviljača were flooded. Banja is not flooded by the spill of the river Drina, not by natural disasters, but by the unprofessional handling of these gaps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2126	The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2127	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, today, as I have seen in recent weeks, I believe that the current issue of the flood in Serbia and that, as I come from Obrenovac, it may be the most interesting issue for me that bothers the citizens of Obrenovac and everyone in the region of the town of Obrenovac. I can only say that I share grief with the citizens of the Obrenovac, for the lives lost and hope that it will never happen again. And one lost life is infinitely valuable, and it shouldn't have come to that in Obrenovac. If I were to say what the citizens of Obrenovac think today and what they told me yesterday when I was in Obrenovac, you would probably take away my word in the first minute, but I will try to convince what is happening in Obrenovac, what was happening in Obrenovac and what the Obrenovci expect from the National Assembly, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I owe my personal gratitude to the President of Parliament, who invited me on Saturday to ask how my family is and how my health is. We have saved over twenty children from my building thanks to this call, and I owe you immense gratitude. I stayed until Tuesday night in Obrenovac until I started saying emergency evacuation, but the evacuation was recommended. I practically spent all these days in Obrenovac. In addition, gratitude is deserved by many well - known and unknown Obrenovians who found themselves on Friday morning between two, three, four, five o'clock in the morning, who organised themselves and saved a large number of people. It was only in the early hours of the morning that rescuers appeared, and it seems to me that there was a special appreciation for the minister of police who best handled himself under these extraordinary circumstances and raised all units. What upsets the citizens of Obrenovac is the situation of Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. Many appeared in Obrenovac, many took pictures, many said that Obrenovac would defend hands, legs, bodies, some other parts of the body. Unfortunately, Friday morning and Saturday none of them showed up. Everyone was in the mood on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday to be questioned and important, but the moment that responsibility was to be taken, the moment someone had to make a decision on how to defend the Defense Officer, there was no brave man to do so. It was only then that all responsibility would be taken over by the prime minister and thus shown to us that everyone else was guilty because they were not doing their job well, from the penitentiary headquarters, through the competent organizations, through emergency situations. If everyone had done their job, if everyone had taken over part of the responsibility in the domain that was their job, we'd probably have avoided the disaster in Obrenovac. Why hasn't anyone responded when we have a report from the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute since 12 May at 1200 hours that says for 14 and 15 that it's a very dangerous phenomenon and predicts very dangerous phenomena for 14 and 15. On the 13th for 15, 16 and 17 very dangerous phenomena predicts, and this means particularly dangerous weather phenomena that can cause great material damage and be very dangerous to the safety of humans and animals. The citizens of Obrenovac expect an answer, which is a failure and which is responsible in the defense chain of the Obrenovac from the flood. Once again, on behalf of the citizens of Obrenovac, we owe great thanks for avoiding significant victims. The material damage is huge. The craftsman looks like an Athenian city. The good part of town is still in the dark and I hope this is going to be the topic we're going to talk about and get answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2128	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2129	The Honorable Madam President of the Assembly, my question, and there are several of them, I will try to put them together in a few sentences. I ask the question of Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and Foreign Minister Dacic. Why, after these catastrophic floods and the extraordinary solidarity and efforts that our citizens, especially young people, have shown during this cataclysm and when the whole world has come to Serbia for help, when many countries have sent material aid and rescuers, we are witnesses today, i.e. Yesterday, how did a group of Russian rescue workers leave our airport home in the Russian Federation sent by a group of right-wing workers, instead of any of the two ministers mentioned come to escort these people who saved a large number of Serbian citizens? I think it's a great shame for our country and it shows one endemic dysfunction in situations where the state shows itself, where its face should be seen. I think it is a great shame and a shame for the citizens of Serbia that people who risked their lives, in this case rescuers from the Russian Federation, or others, go to their country sent by some informal group, and none of the state structures came to tell them a word and to escort them home. My question – why were none of them, what were the more important obligations for the two ministers mentioned? The second question concerns the same thing with the interior minister – how long did it take to investigate and determine responsibility for the fact that DS member in Vrbas, Danilo Bobic, was beaten during the election night in this municipality? What was found about the perpetrators, given that the DS reported the incident, filed a criminal report? We know the name of the perpetrator. So our question is, what happened to this particular case and when will it be processed until the end? The third thing also applies to the interior minister. We are interested in what happens to the published, published, clearly provided information on the registered purchase of votes for several red, say, in the municipality of Pećinca, in the municipality of Odzac and in the municipality of Vrbas by the ruling parties, and does the Serbian police have the capacity to investigate this until the end and until it has gone into the investigation of what has clearly violated the will of Serbian citizens, which is against the law and anti-constitutional action? My question for the Minister of Education Verbic is whether there is a concrete plan for Serbian education, its reform and its functioning at all levels, so from pre-school to university? What exactly is he going to do? Is the only thing Minister Verbic has done so far sent to the mandater, Vukic, whose answer are we waiting for? While we wait for an answer, neither does he know what he has to do, nor do we know what he means to do and whether he means to do something concrete with Serbian education. During that time, elementary school students strike us. My question is, what's he gonna do about it? Is it able to revise the decision to pass a small graduation for those who have been affected by catastrophic floods and thus spare our children from destroyed parts of Serbia from something they are unable to implement to the end? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2130	Although Aleksandar Jugovic and Zoran Zivkovic have been reported, they cannot get the word now. See Article 287. It applies to you in one address, you used it, and you look at it, because you don't belong to any of the MPs' groups. So on Tuesdays and Thursdays you can't ask questions. Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladeta Kostic, Dr Miljana Nikolic, Aleksandar Jablanović, Milovan Drecun, Milena Ćorilić, Olena Papuga and Olgica Batic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of the proposing Lazar Krstic, Minister of Finance, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Niksa Vusurovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt Administration and Aleksandar Kocic Ranđelović, adviser at the Public Debt Administration. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in points 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a bill on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a borrower and the Government of Emirat Abu Dhabi as a lender in respect of a billion-dollar loan, a bill on the approval of a loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund for the Development of Abu Dhabi for the financing of the development of a system for irrigation – and a phase and a proposal for a law on the approval of the Financial Treaty "Apeks Loan for Small and Medium Enterprises and Other Priorities III/A" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia. Does the representative of Proposer Lazar Krstic, the finance minister, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2131	Thank you. I'd just like to say a few words about these loans, or contracts. So we're doing ratifications now. One refers to a billion-dollar budget loan to finance deficits from the United Arab Emirates, specifically from Abu Dhabi. There have been a lot of words about it, I believe, in the budget procedure and all sorts of other opportunities, as well as in the media. I just want to say, we've already been having a lot of debate about it, that the contract is under very favourable conditions, that compared to the reference interest rates, at which we would now be in debt, make up a savings of about 300 million dollars for the Republic of Serbia, and at the rate of interest that we would pay for ten years. In addition, it has a positive effect in terms of calming investors and keeping promises, which is something investors watch when you come out with bilateral contracts. Also, I think it is, in some ways, a clear sign that our bilateral co-operation with the United Arab Emirates is much wider than this loan, progressing properly. In that sense, it is the first of what should be a few tranches of this loan. Furthermore, to be very clear, I've said this before, if we hadn't taken this bilateral loan, we'd have to be in debt the way we're in debt and otherwise, on the international banking market. But it's simply not a matter of choice, it's a matter of necessity, considering the structure of our budget, or the height of the deficit. I would like to take the opportunity to express my satisfaction as finance minister that because of the political, good international relations and positions we have, we have the opportunity to achieve these conditions, which is not the case with almost one country in the region. As for the next loan, which is also related to the United Arab Emirates, it is a watering loan, the first 100 million, or, more specifically, 97 million from the Abu Dhabi Development Fund. So this loan is intended and is intended for agriculture, specifically for irrigation. In particular, it is 14 different projects in agriculture, related to irrigation and disposal, which I think is also the situation we had, and the potential we have in agriculture that we should achieve in the future, simply requires and requires that we address capital investments in an adequate way. The loan was planned in the budget in co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture and in line with the priorities of different capital projects and their dynamics adopted by the government in the previous budgetary procedure and its withdrawal was planned over the next four years, in line with the dynamics presented on the budget and fiscal strategy, as it relates to the next three years. The last of the three loans or international contracts that we ratify is the Apeks loan, which is actually the fifth tranche, Apex IIIa. It is another instrument of economic policy that has proved very successful in its previous manifestations. I believe all previous governments used it. It is a loan administered through the National Bank of Serbia and then through commercial banks. Therefore, the risk is not taken by the state, is used for the cheap financing of business entities, businesses and, in that sense, involves the most favourable source of funding for banks and businesses, and the effective interest rate at which companies using the Apeks line are owed is around 3-4%. We are talking about a total volume of 500m euros, i.e. the first tranche of 150m euros, which will be distributed immediately after ratification, or made available to commercial banks to place them in the economy. Two more things I want to say. And this loan is one of the instruments of economic policy, and it will make it possible for economic operators to get more favourable loans than it is, given the current interest rates in our country, to go to good businesses, those that will be able to finance it because it is administered through banks and should be seen in general with other economic policy measures. We talked about one of them yesterday, about tax breaks. But also in the context of subsidized loans as one of the instruments that is not temporary. We have been using it for years, but it is there to simply enable things to start in the economy, especially until the structural reforms that will be implemented during this year and in 2015 do not have full effect. As for the Apeks Line, it is the European Investment Bank, so I think we have a good combination if we absorb what we are accomplishing on our way to the EU, but we also realize thanks to the good political relations we have with other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2132	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2133	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, Parliament's president, respected colleagues, Serbia has been a country in which we have referred to it in various ways from abroad since 2000, with loans, loans, donations, funds from international funds and other ways, several tens of billions of euros have arrived. For all those years of DOS rule, one, the other, the third democratic government, we have not felt a visible shift in the standard or quality of life of Serbian citizens. On the contrary, as the duties grew and Serbia weakened, the burden of interest on the loan fell and burdened the backs of ordinary citizens more and more. That period was even a paradise for the establishment from the '90s, so it created an ambience for petty merchants of the '90s to become tycoons. They were using political ties and money to get the best jobs and monopoly behaviour on the market to destroy Serbia's economy. Small and medium-sized enterprises became their slaves who had to accept the conditions of the market created by the tycoons. How? The payment deadline for goods delivered to large monopolies has become inaccessible. It goes from a few months to never. Therefore, special attention should be paid to the financial agreement between Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank, so on the loan for small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises can be a driver for the development of the Serbian economy. In addition to the government's measures announced yesterday by Minister Krstic in parliament, which means tough measures against the gray zone of business in every respect and stimulating employment, reviving small and medium-sized enterprises in the same competition for all, without privileges, we could quickly as a state feel the signs of recovery of the economy. The transparency of government's work, which is higher than in the previous period, can lead to more objective allocation of funds in the context of equal conditions for all by prescribing the rules of a fair economic match in which the best and most capable would be found. Once upon a time, one of the founders of the "Universal" trade association in Chačka, the Association of craftsmen was my father, so I can testify that this association protected the interests of small entrepreneurs. The town of Cačak was richer because of this association than other cities in western Serbia, and no one took a job, but helped each other. What's with the weather? I hope that this financial agreement between Serbia and the European Investment Bank is a sign of a return to the good experience of a well-respected country. The tax system should be progressive, less burdensome and production factors and the Norwegian system should be applied in Serbia. I'll do one parallel, in Norway it's not equal to punishment and even for financial or tax violations for those who have high incomes. It's not the same punishment for those who have high incomes as for those who have low incomes. So those who are abnormally wealthy, those who have high incomes pay far greater penalties than those who do not have the means because it is believed that the penalty if the person who has a large amount of money is not enough, and yet I believe that we are in a country where many people live on the edge of poverty and the penalties for various violations are too great for them. So, to align the fines with the incomes and wealth of individual people in Serbia. Therefore, I say that the burden of crisis and recovery must be borne by those who have used all the benefits since 2000 and who have created empires on the torture of the poor people. Therefore, due to suspicions of abuse until yesterday, untouchable people create an environment in which someone will find it harder to decide to impose extra-legal conditions or abuses through pressure over power or money. A billion-dollar loan under the most favourable conditions of the United Arab Emirates will also be a strong injection of our economy. Serbia's policy where we find our strategic partners in the common interest can and must be worth it to the citizens of Serbia. Inherited problems must be solved. As boastful of the generations that come best, the fact that loans since 2000 have been taken on such unfavourable conditions that it simply does not see the logic of borrowing itself. Now even more favourable loans must be returned from that period of boasting. So, in Serbia's breakdown, those who were aimlessly, unsystemic, paying no attention to the interest rate were in debt and so needlessly threw into the great debt of our country and our children. That is why a clearly tracked political path without calculations can restore Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2134	The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2135	Dear Presidents, respected presidency, respected ministers, co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are several agreements on the agenda between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. It's about favourable loans to our country. At first, I want to point out that we will support these agreements. Allow me to state the position of the SVM Parliamentary Group, primarily on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund for Development Abu Dhabi for the financing of the development of the irrigation system. The Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates established a legal framework for the implementation of the activities of the two countries in all areas of common interest, as well as in the area of agriculture through investment, both in the development of agricultural production and in the irrigation of land, drainage systems, modernisation and procurement of the necessary agricultural equipment. Given the share that the agriculture sector has in the structure of the GDP of the Republic of Serbia, any improvement in the business environment related to agriculture and the availability of financial resources in this area is of particular social and economic importance. As the agreement puts it, the Abu Dhabi Fund granted to Serbia a loan for the implementation of the first phase of the development of the irrigation system, which, I am deeply confident, will enable the stability of yields in warfare and fruit production, regardless of adverse climate impacts. The project at this stage covers 11 agricultural sites in the AP Vojvodina and three in central Serbia and a total area of more than 30,000 hectares, most of which were obtained local and construction permits. They'll be working on projects, for example. Tisa, Palić, 1,800 hectares, in Ada at 1,100 hectares, in Mali Mijos 760 hectares, in Kikinda 2,330 hectares, Nova Crnja, Apartment 800 hectares, in the water system Premenac in Čačka 2,510 hectares. It is also good that there is a possibility of funding and a greater number of locations after our site has completed the construction of missing technical documentation and provides conditions for the start of work, until the loan is fully used. As we heard, the loan agreement with the Republic of Serbia approved funds under financial conditions that are significantly more favourable than marketable. The loan amount is 97 million US dollars, which is about 8.2 billion dinars. The maturity of the loan is 20 years, in a crucial period of five years. It is also a good intention to employ domestic public water companies and state-owned companies in the realisation of the project, which have the capacity to carry out investment operations in the construction and reconstruction of water facilities. Land and water are non-renewable resources where everything starts, including the overall economy of any area. As a result, the development of irrigation that draws with it and the development of agriculture in general depends on the availability of these basic resources. Irrigation in the world is applied to slightly more than 15% of the working surfaces. One of the basic factors in the spread of irrigation is rainfall, i.e. the lack of rainfall, because 55% of the earth's surface needs irrigation due to climate. However, unfavourable rainfall schedules and frequent dry periods move this line to 75% of surfaces that need permanent or occasional irrigation. Natural conditions in our country allow different uses of land in the form of orans, forests, orchards, vineyards, pastures and meadows. Large natural water streams in Serbia such as Tisa, Sava, Danube provide the necessary amounts of water for irrigation, while other regional hydrosystems and one number of accumulations must be trained for this purpose. As a result of the absence of irrigation and deforestation channels, the uncleaning of some canals, the disorder of some rivers, to some extent, are currently suffering from citizens of many municipalities around Serbia. On Saturday, as a member of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, I had the opportunity to visit some of the municipalities affected by an unprecedented elemental disaster, floods. The picture is scary on the ground, citizens don't know how to move on, the damage is huge and not just in agriculture. In some places, citizens say, water has been a problem decades ago, but unfortunately nothing has been done in recent years, or little has been done on the ground. We who are members of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture plan to organise in the future some meetings of the Committee on the field in municipalities affected by floods and intend to through dialogue with representatives of municipalities, with representatives of agricultural producers living in these municipalities, propose some solutions so that these things do not happen again. This problem needs to be addressed systematically and in the future we need to create projects to regulate water streams where it is most necessary, for example for the Sava that flows through several countries, members and future EU members. The state should make new or implement existing projects and attract funds from European funds to finance such cross-border projects that are of general importance. Unfortunately, the rate of irrigation development in Serbia does not meet the needs of stable and efficient agricultural production. Due to various problems, irrigation has not found its right place in our agriculture, as each birth year suppresses it into another plan. The existing systems were built in the '70s, in the '80s they were abandoned, invalid, so they were partly out of use or not used because of the inability of larger investments in them. According to the percentage of irrigated areas, i.e. total land areas that are suitable for irrigation, our country far lags behind all neighbouring countries and is located at the very bottom of Europe. The current state of irrigation in Serbia is such that about 1% of agricultural land is irrigated intensively. Statistics show that total irrigation in central Serbia is only about 5,000 hectares and in Vojvodina about 25.30 thousand hectares, which is satisfactory. We all want high production results by applying irrigation, and the economy of investment in irigation systems indicates that this measure should be given priority in agricultural production. Namely, irrigation can stabilise, i.e. increase production food and boost the development of livestock, processing and other industries necessary for Serbia. For our country characterized by changing climate conditions where rainfall vary from year to year, irrigation is an important factor in increasing and stabilising agricultural production. We know well that the landing schedule is spatial and time-unbalanced, i.e. ranged from more than 1,200 millimeters in mountain areas to 550 millimeters in the Srema, Backa and Banata flat areas. On the other hand, the smallest amount of rainfall is in areas of the highest quality land during the vegetation period, when the highest needs of plants are for water. That's why almost every year there's a dry season, regardless of the annual rainfall. Modern modern intensive agricultural production is not possible without the use of irrigation and therefore I am sure that the importance of this loan is enormous, because irrigation increases contributions without which Serbia has no progress towards the EU, no productivity, and we are all in the interest of increasing production. Once again, I want to repeat that this area has been neglected for dozens of years. We all know well that some projects have been waiting since the '70s to be realized, and I hope that after accepting this agreement, we will finally start implementing projects of national interest. It's important that we start working and continue on that path in the coming years. Of course, we also support the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Emirat Abu Dhabi. The loan amount is a billion US dollars, with which we will finance the budget deficit and partially refinance Serbia's public debt. The loan is taken at a fixed interest rate of 2% a year, which is a very favourable interest rate, especially since it is fixed. I believe this agreement will improve our financial situation. Due to all these facts, the SVM parliamentary group will also support the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Abu Dhabi Development Fund to finance the development of the irrigation system, as well as other agreements and loans on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2136	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2137	The Honorable Presidents, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we have three laws before us: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a Borrower and the Government of Emirat Abu Dhabi, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund for the Development of Abu Dhabi and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Treaty "Apex Loan for Small and Medium Enterprises and Other Priorities" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. At first, since all three contracts, regardless of topics, are different, are more or less similar, let me say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all three laws. Mr. Minister, I'm sorry I didn't get an answer from you yesterday on that proposal I made for you, and it's about salary tax and it's about local self-government. This situation where we're all together right now, and when it comes to finance, with you at the head, it's definitely not easy and the situation is such that it has to react quickly. There's not a lot of alternatives in these situations. At this point, we have a choice – whether we continue to borrow or sell something from the public sector, which some foreign partners are interested in. This loan-taking thing has become a nightmare for Serbia for decades. We are increasingly like an average citizen of Serbia who is unable to get out of credit. We keep going from one to the other, and we can't get on our feet. What gives me hope that some things can change, that is information that has been current in the media these days, which is that Turkey has managed to pay off the last IMF debt war and has finally managed to get on its feet. It's a good signal and proof that even today in this turbulent economic situation, if you're well organized, if you invest in the economy the way it's supposed to be done, you have a chance to pull yourself out of a loan. Their priority, of course, was the development of the private sector and the economy, and these loans that are now ahead of us have exactly that purpose. Therefore, I repeat once again, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support them. What's important to those people who know little about the banking system, and I've been lucky enough to work in one of those systems for a while, and I know there's no good credit. There are no favourable loans. Every loan is necessarily evil, but in relation to all the loans Serbia has so far had, I think these are credits that, if we have a chance to continue to get under these conditions, we can definitely change our financial situation. A credit related to productivity and efficiency in the agriculture sector is mainly based on some 11 locations in Vojvodina and two locations in Serbia. It is likely that this has been systematically seen before these locations were defined, but I still want to draw attention to it, so at some point something might change, that you have to pay a little more attention to central Serbia, western, eastern, south, because both people down there are farming and largely living from agriculture. Perhaps much smaller funds are needed precisely in these environments, unlike Vojvodina, which is definitely our biggest organ. What's a little bit of an eyelash, Minister, I'm not saying that there can be any abuse, but these are these two items that refer to consulting services that are about $15 million and the third item is an unforeseeable cost of 46 million. That's almost 15% of the total assets defined by this loan. Since the loan is extremely favourable, the loan is 2.5%, please pay attention to these 15% of the items I've been telling you about. Because if there is any unprofessional business and conduct, we may find this extremely favourable loan expensive. The next loan relating to the consolidation of the budget, if I may say so freely, amounting to a billion dollars, is definitely the best loan that I think Serbia has received in its history. After this kind of interest, there is one trust and all the other funds that are willing to cooperate with us in the future, and one stability of our economy is announced. Then it is not by any chance that the European Investment Bank is already coming to us with such interest rates, which the minister just said were about 4%. In this area around the European Investment Bank, you should pay attention, of course, to the fact that all these funds are being monitored capitularly and that we should make an effort, and in fact they should do business banks, to make sure that there are no protections, as has happened before, because it always happens to all of us after that. With the other measures being passed, which are related to the economy, like these laws that we had here yesterday in the tide, there is definitely one good atmosphere being created, and I think those who are capable and ready to adapt quickly can expect some positive effects. In our country's financial stabilisation, there's about as much a situation as with these floods that have hit us these days. This business can't be done just by the state. This is the work that needs to be done with the whole system. I also mean the financial system that represents banks, the system of economy, and in the end somehow all of us living together in this country. If we sublime our strength and energy as in these unfortunate circumstances in which we were in the previous days, I think the effects that should be expected are positive in any case. In recent years, no one has asked you any more, and I think that's one of the biggest moments of this financial crisis that we've set ourselves on fire for some business in the real sector. Especially when it comes to political parties and all the other emergencyes, everyone's kind of looking and asking -- is there a possibility of being employed in a state or public sector? I think it's a big mistake and a big mistake, and the reason for that is because the wages in this sector are extremely large compared to the economy. I'm not saying that salaries are big, but in terms of the economy and the real sector, these salaries are much higher. If we try to even this out, I think it's going to be one of the first steps in the beginning of solving a general crisis that we're in. I repeat once again, the JS parliamentary group will support all three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2138	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2139	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when you mention the United Arab Emirates today, everyone around the world thinks of good education, excellent companies, diversified business that these companies and the Emirat Development Funds have around the world. Think of Mazdar Institute, think of good universities, Mubadal, Abu Dhabi Development Fund and the National Bank of the United Arab Emirates. Today, as the main topic, we have the signing and ratification of a loan agreement with the government of Abu Dhabi of $1 billion and a loan with the 98 billion Abu Dhabi Development Fund that will certainly affect the development of our economy. I will refer to the findings and speech of my colleague Aleksandar Jugovic, who spoke a little bit about how over the past 25 years in two phases, so during the 1990s we had the formation of a tycoon elite that dealt in most cases with the gray economy, the black economy and smuggling. After 2000, the entry of a large number of suspected investors and speculative capital that led to more than one third of the privatisations being broken up in our country. Today, we now have a chance to talk and negotiate with the best and best-quality companies and development funds in the world. It is certain that our government will use this in this area to implement as dynamic as possible, as best and as high-quality economic reforms as possible and of course to improve the development of strategic sectors in our country such as agriculture, energy, infrastructure development and, of course, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. When it comes to the terms of this billion-dollar loan, I will only give one example that just a few months ago, the Government of Abu Dhabi has refinanced a loan to Emirates Dubai, which is, of course, within the United Arab Emirates, under conditions and at an interest rate of 1%. Be careful, the Emirat who is together with Abu Dhabi must also pay an interest rate of 1% with a start of five years, and as the minister said, we, when it comes to this agreement and the loan, have a 10-year start. What is also considered globally, one of the best and the best, cheapest loans, is Japan's $150m development agency's loan to Jordan at an interest rate of 1.7% and a five-year start. So I can agree with the Minister's finding that we actually got this loan if not free and free but under the best possible conditions under which funds can be obtained right now on the global financial market. What's also very interesting is that this amount of money we're going to get in this year alone because when you compare only information and analysis that the National Bank of Abu Dhabi planned this year also loans to Latin America countries such as Brazil, Chile, Peru, in a total amount of about $720 million, and a small country like Serbia gets a billion-dollar loan. That speaks enough about our country's current international position. And this is not only the result of bilateral and quality relations between Serbia and the United Arab Emirates and Abu Dhabi, but this is the result of the generally good international position of our country and good relations primarily with the United States, with the Russian Federation, with China and of course with EU countries. It is right now, giving us the result, giving us the opportunity to recover our economy and to have that level of investment that we need in order to develop quality and well. But it's not just a loan, it's not just a loan here, it's a total environment and a long-term strategy of our country and our country's long-term interest that besides the "Belgrade on Water" project, which will be run by the United Arab Emirates Corporation, which in the last year recorded revenue of about $230 billion, which has its business in the best and most high-quality world investment destinations, among them is Erbil in Kurdistan, which, just last year, in some seven, eight billion euros foreign direct investment. We thus place ourselves in the top 10 or 20 good and best-quality investment destinations in Europe. I will also have to mention those investments that have already yielded fruit, and which have already had a good result, it is certainly our partnership with Etyhad. The fact that 30% of the passengers at our airport were recorded in January of this year than was recorded in 2013. When it comes to this irrigation loan. What is the greatest quality of this agreement and this agreement is that we will finally begin on sound and sustainable grounds to develop our agriculture, that through the development of technology, innovation, through the introduction and implementation of the "know how" offered by our partners from the Abu Dhabi Development Fund to raise productivity, to speed up results and to maintain a much more predictable agricultural policy especially in the sectors of warfare and vegetables for which this credit will benefit the most. It is also very important that this credit line involves the establishment of a project implementation unit, which implies a very strict control. I can freely say that what we lacked in previous years is a qualified, engineering, technical, managerial frame required by the lender, that we implement it here, that we delegate it so that this project can be implemented on sustainable grounds in the next period. Only in this way, only with the best, best quality personnel, only with the most qualified people and the best partners our economy can move on. In the previous period, although we had a lot of privatisations we didn't have these best, the world's biggest players, and I can freely announce that in the Investments Act that I hope to find in next month's assembly debate we will have the opportunity and will function this aspect that we will attract most of those investors from Fort's 500 best companies in the world. This credit line implies investing in 24,000 hectares at 11 locations in Vojvodina, in three locations in Central Serbia and will certainly represent one incentive for all parts of Serbia and the possibility that we will do this job throughout our country together with the Abu Dhabi Development Fund. We must take this opportunity not only in agriculture, not just in terms of the project "Belgrade on Water", not just in terms of Etihad and partnerships with the air carrier from Emirata. We can look up to Slovakia, Poland, South Korea, who, in fact and the fates of their economies, tied themselves to certain strong countries that had the most investment in these countries. The largest and best US investors, such as IBM, such as Microsoft, entered Slovakia. So did Poland. South Korea, for example, has completely changed its economic policy, and with 95% of the trade exchanges that it made until 1995 with the United States, now it's doing the same thing with China, and it used to be in Korean universities, high and elementary schools the first English language for learning, now it's Chinese. So we have to adapt to current market circumstances at global level. We believe that the United Arab Emirates are a very important and very valuable partner for our country, and that with that kind of partners and those companies that are healthy, which have made it a $1.7 billion issue in 1971 of gross domestic product, they come today to $394 billion. They're our partners. These are the companies that we need to cooperate with, and these are the companies that we need to give incentives and that can make our economy healthier, that can help us speed up our technologies and that can help us make these investments have what is most important to the economy, which is the effect of spilling over. So, to have new employment, to have new knowledge, to have development of education, not to privatise and buy the "Mobtel 063" in 2006, we call it investment, because anyone who finished the first year of economic college knows it's not an investment, it's a disinvestment. Investments are the only thing that has a sterling value and a spilling effect, what creates jobs, what creates new knowledge, and we from the SDPS will strongly advocate such a policy. We still have to comment on this Apex loan for small and medium-sized enterprises. Our party's position is very well known when it comes to incentive policy, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We are very turned around and we support every incentive for small businesses and those companies that will open up, private entrepreneurship and transform our society from official to entrepreneurial. We believe that this line of Apeks credit can very positively affect our entrepreneurship, that conditions, that the interest rate is very favourable and that it can lead to new employment, to encourage self-employment. I would suggest and suggest that these loans be used in some way for the purchase of equipment, for the purchase of technology and to be invested exclusively in the manufacturing sector and in the family business, because this is what will maintain our economy in the next three, four generations. It won't work for sure and it won't provide us with either trade or service. It will provide us with production, and it will provide us with a large number of these small entrepreneurs. Mr. Minister, you know very well the examples of good Ireland, for example, which is through this small business, through the production of something that we sometimes don't think about, which is so small and small, has hired for a very short period of 150,000 people. In any case, this is part of structural reforms, structural moves by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this credit and irrigation credit, of course this Apeks line for small and medium-sized enterprises. I hope that we will be more dynamic and very quick to implement all these credit lines and, of course, for the purpose of new employment, what is most important to our country, because what represents the core, which is the goal of every policy, and after four years, when we are doing a summary of what we have done, both you in the government and we in parliament, will only be one fact that determines our success, and that is how much we have managed to reduce unemployment. She's currently according to the methodology of the sea 24%. I hope that in the next four years, at least we can make it to 15% and create conditions in the part where we enter the EU to reduce unemployment to 10%. This should be "condicio son qua non" work by the government, parliament, all institutions, of course social partners, for which SDPS will strongly advocate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2140	The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2141	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I believe it was not easy to make such a favourable arrangement, an agreement and a loan from the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates. However, if we compare a period that is right behind us and when we are in debt at a much higher interest rate, this is certainly progress. I believe that measures by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and concrete investments in production, technology, in new jobs from these loans and agreements will allow our economy to become more developed and that, as a fellow JS said, as Turkey one day, we will be able to repay all debts. Because of the citizens of Serbia who are watching us, I'd just like to say a few sentences about the United Arab Emirates. I think it is very important that they have shown great interest in investing in Serbia, given that as a large country with a developed economy they choose very carefully where they will invest their money. It is known that in the United Arab Emirates, the sixth country is richer, which last year had a GDP of $368 billion, or $49,000 per capita, which is 10 times the GDP of the Republic of Serbia. The annual surplus of Emirata in exchange for the world is about $50 billion. The service sector is also in big expansion. For example, only in the construction industry they have $350 billion projects. I will list one piece of information that has been very interesting to me since 2006, that Emrati, Dubai and Qatar worldwide have bought companies worth $78 billion. Serbia's co-operation with the United Arab Emirates, with a country that records such expansion, is certainly in our favor. The loan agreement, as before, is the logical consequence of the agreement on co-operation between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Emirates government, signed in February last year. Our agriculture as an economic activity is somehow put in the first place by this agreement. The idea is for the United Arab Emirates to provide financial resources for the modernisation of the entire Serbian agriculture, while the Republic of Serbia, which is very important in its opinion, would pay the funds invested in this way to several years of guaranteed deliveries of the most diverse agricultural products, wheat, corn, deteline, meat, dairy products. These products would be exported from Serbia through Al Dahra's market not only to the United Arab Emirates, but also to the market of third countries. For example, recently the leading chain of hypermarkets in the region, which has more than 110 sales facilities with 600,000 customers per day, has shown great interest in the placement of fresh, dried fruit and container products from our country. When it comes to interstate co-operation, it is very important to say that our government farts and the establishment of a joint company in which Al Dahra would take over 66.7% of the ownership of 100m euros, which would receive 16,000 hectares of state-owned land in the long term, with a salary of 250 euros per hectare per year. The first concrete result of this joint co-operation between the two countries is the loan agreement to finance the development of the irrigation system, signed in March of this year. We all know that in our country only one small percentage of the farmland is irrigated, that in Serbia, in fact, at this moment, only about 100,000 hectares of farmland are irrigated, and this, of course, has a great envy for our overall agricultural production from climate conditions, that is, trouble. As it seems in practice, we've all faced great floods these days, and two years ago with great droughts. I think we are no longer in a position to afford ourselves new droughts and new floods, but we must take concrete measures and plans to protect ourselves. The project for which the United Arab Emirates granted us this loan of $97 million is at an extremely low interest rate of only 2.5% per year and covers the first phase of building a system for irrigation some 31,000 hectares of farmland at 11 locations in Vojvodina and three locations in central Serbia. This involves not only the realization of the irrigation project, but also construction works, installation of hydromechanical and electrical equipment, irrigation equipment and all related installations. This is an exceptional opportunity and opportunity for our business entities, first of all, water companies, which are involved in the production and maintenance of these equipment and devices and in the construction and reconstruction of existing water infrastructure facilities. In the near future, about a million hectares of farmland are planned to be covered by a network of modern irrigation systems, and since the first part provides for a watering area in Vojvodina and central Serbia, I expect these projects to expand very quickly to the south of Serbia as well. This loan is scheduled for 20 years and with a grace period of five years. I would like to say a few more words about a financial contract that provides the possibility for small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Serbia to withdraw loans from the selected circle of business banks under more favourable conditions with the intervention of the state and the National Bank of Serbia, than was the case so far and when it comes to the general standard policy of credit banks. In doing so, it is very important to say that not only is the emphasis on financial conditions and repayment deadlines, but also on simplified credit procedures and the mitigation of general conditions for obtaining credit. Finally, I would like to inform you that in the day for the vote, the New Serbia parliamentary group will support all three agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2142	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2143	Thank you. Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, three very important and important legislative proposals are before us. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary club will support all three legislative proposals in the voting day. When it comes to the first legislative proposal, concerning loans or loans that Serbia receives from the United Arab Emirates, I would like to say that it is certain that this agreement stems primarily from one improved bilateral relationship between the two countries and the good political relations between the two governments, but also from personal relations, which can sometimes be, as in a specific case, very important and significant. It is certain that this agreement will be a good basis for deepening co-operation, for creating a broader co-operation with representatives of the United Arab Emirates and that it will create new opportunities, develop economic and trade relations and create opportunities for some joint investment in the perspective. When it comes to financial effects and financial conditions under which credit is obtained from the United Arab Emirates, I would like to say that this is a very favourable loan. Looking back a long line, I don't think Serbia has received or received a more favourable loan, or credit under more favourable conditions. In his opening statement, the minister said that the annual savings were about $40m and $30m, respectively, and that some 300m would be saved over a period of ten years. What is also important when it comes to this loan, this credit is not conditioned, or it is not precisely and clearly defined by the UAE representative, where the credit must be spent, but rather Serbia that will determine where it is most needed to spend and invest the funds received from the UAE at the moment. It speaks of credibility, it speaks of trust, when it comes to mutual relations, but on the other hand, this is one clear signal and other potential creditors when it comes to Serbia. I would say it is very important to speak positively of Serbia in the international public today. It is very important that Serbia's international reputation is raised. It is very important that in the international public today there is a clear view that Serbia can be a partner. It's important, when it comes to the way and direction in which money should be directed, that money be invested where it will be controlled, where it will have the greatest effects. As a parliamentary club, we believe that one of the priorities of the sea should be financial consolidation. Serbia has huge spending on interest resulting from an increase in public debt, so I think, bearing in mind that we do not have too much space to think about and most of the funds obtained from the UAE representatives must right now be focused on paying off earlier debts or on replacing potential borrowing. The minister said in an opening statement that Serbia would cover the budget deficit and cover earlier debts, it would have to be in debt on the international financial market and at an interest rate of 7.7.5%. The difference itself speaks enough of how much Serbia is getting from the loan we're talking about today from the UAE. You can't spend more than you earn. In the past time period, I'd say, we've had one big debt and it's been spent on public spending, which is absolutely wrong. I think that's the kind of practice you need to break up with. There's a lesson to be learned from the past. Such practice has led us to the difficult financial situation we are in today. The credit Serbia receives from the UAE will help us to get through a very difficult period, but on the other hand, this loan will be both an incentive and a clear signal to both foreign and domestic investors, when it comes to investing in Serbia. From a financial point of view and when it comes to financial conditions, this is a very favourable loan. Again, he wants to help us overcome a difficult period, but the next step and the condition for Serbian citizens to feel a positive shift is a reform process that Serbia must go through in the next period of time. If there is no reform process, if there are no system laws, we talked about it yesterday during the debate on the principle of also two legislative proposals, if we do not adopt system laws, there is no positive shift, on the other hand, we no longer have room for borrowing. When it comes to the second legislative proposal, also a very important and significant loan, I am not an expert in the field of agriculture, but I think that counterpart Arpad Fremond had one comprehensive and very good exposure. I would like to say that through irrigation Serbia is certainly making a bigger contribution, and without that contribution there is no productivity for Serbia and there is no progress towards the EU. It's a clear goal when it comes to this loan. All funding from this loan will be directed to make the water reach the fields in such a way that the state wants to also invest, through investment to help agricultural producers create and provide a good basis for increasing the yield. I'm sure from a financial point of view and financial conditions is a favourable loan, but what I'm saying is, when it comes to agriculture, agriculture itself cannot function alone. Agriculture and farmers can't function without cheap loans. When it comes to irrigation, there was little talk. So this is an area in which unfortunately little has been invested over the past period of time. We had a chance to hear some data. I think that today Serbia is in the last place when it comes to investing in arable areas, to invest about 10%, or to irrigate about 10% of the farmland or 165 thousand hectares. Otherwise, from the United Arab Emirates Fund, Serbia will receive two loans. The first credit is intended for irrigation, the second credit is intended for general projects in the area of agriculture. When it comes to this second loan, concerning general projects in the field of agriculture, we believe that all farmers will have the same chances, that in simplified procedures they will be able to apply for funds and that these funds will be able to invest in machinery, be able to invest in equipment, be able to invest in funds that will enable them to build new facilities. When it comes to the third legislative proposal, I want to say first during yesterday we had and ended the debate in principle on two important legislative proposals. It is a proposal for a law on income tax and a bill on contributions to compulsory social security, and speaking of these two legislative proposals as a parliamentary club, we have said that it is very important that through these legal proposals the private sector is adequately treated, i.e. that these legal proposals are in favour of the conclusion that the private sector has found its place in the set of economic measures of the Government of Serbia. It is very important to encourage the private sector, it is important for the economy that employs and opens new jobs, but it is important for the country that operates from the charge of taxis and taxes from the company's profits. Also, during yesterday, we said that, in our opinion, one of the central themes of the government of the Republic of Serbia, in the next period of time, should precisely be structural reforms to encourage and develop the private sector. Both the United States and the EU have set a basis for exiting the crisis and for economic recovery just as small and medium-sized enterprises. I think we in Serbia should encourage, encourage our people to think in that direction, and that is what this third legislative proposal, which is exclusively intended for small and medium-sized enterprises, seems to be doing. There is no exit from the crisis without opening new jobs, and above all in the manufacturing process. Also, since one part of the funds will be channelled into infrastructure projects, there is no economic without infrastructure development. When it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, I want to say that some estimates are that small and medium-sized enterprises, in the next period of time, can employ between 200 and 300,000 new jobs, but what is necessary for small and medium-sized enterprises is this very support of the state. State support when it comes to reducing the burden, supporting the state when it comes to pre-glacial bureaucracy, the high duration of the procedure, the long duration of the procedure and the support of the state when it comes to sources of funding. By the way, the small- and medium-sized enterprises sector itself today in Serbia, according to some indicators, employs about 50% of the total number of employees in Serbia and accounts for around 46.5% of GDP. In the EU, for example, small and medium-sized enterprises account for more than 90% of the total economic space, and that is something Serbia should seek, which should be our ultimate goal. Of course, we can't do everything overnight, but in that context, we have to define our goals and start to realize these goals. For this reason, we also support this third legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2144	The word has the People's MP Nada Lazic, representative of LSV.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2145	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I will repeat some of the things my colleagues have said before. In fact, we have three loan agreements before us that this Assembly needs to confirm by emergency procedure. I don't want to comment on these credits in terms of convenience, because they've been pointed out several times by my colleagues. Our people do not say by chance – a debt is an evil friend. The question is, what am I asking myself, what are these funds going to be spent on? In fact, we from LSV, and myself personally, since I come from the field of environmental protection, would be the happiest if at least part of the funds that are now the subject of this debate, were spent on building a municipal infrastructure, and here I mean building a wastewater disposal system, i.e. for sewers, for building a wastewater treatment system and repairing dumps. Namely, building regional dumps, and I will remind you that the wastewater management strategy was brought back in 2003, and that we still have a problem with wild dumps and unsettled dumps today. That, in my opinion, is the basis of all the problems. I will remind you that during the time of Minister Dulic, a strategy was adopted by European experts. It is a strategy to bring Serbia closer to the EU in the environment, where it is stressed that the worst situation in the water sector, which is 10.5 billion euros in total, is needed to regulate the environment area, more than five billion needed for water management, and most of which should be spent on waste water management. I'm saying all this because she's not the Minister of Agriculture with us, because I want to comment on this loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Abu Dhabi Development Fund to fund the development of the irrigation system. Here, colleagues have repeated several times, and I will repeat, that this is a loan to build this system to a total of 13, or two places in this document, which we have received, says 13, and in another 14 locations, it says 24,000 hectares in one place, and on the other 31. It's essentially irrelevant. The largest number of locations is in Vojvodina, 11 of them. For reasons of confirming this contract, it is said that it should enable, among other things, the competitiveness of our products on the world market. I especially stress this because no one has anything against the idea of irrigation and maximum use of water surfaces, but there are certain problems when Vojvodina is concerned and some facts that must be taken into account, if we want this project to be sustainable, that we may not build a system that we may not be able to use tomorrow. Why? The problem that exists in Vojvodina, and unfortunately nothing less in the entire territory of Serbia, are municipal wastewaters that are released without purification into the canals, lakes, rivers, all depends on what anyone has next to him, the most often uncontrollable discharge of septic caves. I shall only list through the figures the data relating to the territory of the Vojvodina. Of the 463 settlements in Vojvodina, over 400 have no sewers, and only 7% of the population are covered by wastewater treatment on plants that function properly. If we add contaminants from the food industry, farm pollution, because it is known that there are large farms in the Vojvodina territory, larger capacities, which are large polluters, many of them have settled the issue of their habitat using the resources of one project that existed, or which the World Bank financed by a 70 % donation, and 30% of the farms were obliged to invest and receive land-gathering devices and to spread in the fields. From this project, among other things, the funds were also obtained by the Kafilariums, which are mentioned these days. One of them is the Somboric Cafilarium, which has received some of the equipment from this project, and the Cafilarium in Cupria. Unfortunately, we see that only the Somborian works, and that the Cafilarium in Cupria, for some reason, does not receive dead animals from these tragic events, or deaths from flooded areas. On the other hand, there is a problem of waste in the Vojvodina territory, not yet arranged dumps and the problem of wild dumps. Every day I come to the assembly meeting, I pass between two. One big, I guess, old-fashioned, and one that's emerging, I don't know if anyone should notice, but I think it's bigger and bigger against Batajnica. It's a picture of us, which people acquire when they enter Belgrade, or when they enter this country. According to some study, which was done for the territory of Vojvodina, the average each municipality has 12 wild dumps. Now the question is asked – when we take all these facts and data that I have presented, and they are easily verifiable, with which water we want to irrigate, or will the water that we are going to irrigate and which in this system will be used have the right quality for irrigation, will it be healthy, or will we be able to guarantee the correctness of agricultural products? Let's get back to that finding that we want to be competitive with our products at the world market. If we take into account that in one Germany 95% of the population is covered by wastewater treatment across the territory of Germany, so is Austria and all other practically EU member states, and it is the obligation of new members to clean up their own waters by the next year, unfortunately, we are terribly late in all this because we are in this area and so far, and I see that we are not going to invest now. These are the locations on the territory of the Vojvodina. My basic question is whether the selection of these locations has taken care of these facts, i.e. the facts of whether these municipalities in whose territories are located have a regulated waste issue, whether their waste water is released in an adequate way and what is common in the villages, especially in the villages of Vojvodina, that people have their septic pits in those small tanks empty where they arrive and whatever it is convenient for them? I will note that under the Law on Community Works, wastewater and dumps are in the jurisdiction of local self-government. Unfortunately, they do not have the most frequent, especially small municipalities and poor, assets or professional capacity. You have municipalities where no engineer works on the dump, and in Germany at a regional dump at the head of that dump is a science doctor. They're relationships. We are entering this Europe, and we are in these numbers, that is, in these facts. Without the help and engagement of the state, this problem will not be resolved anytime soon, and the sustainability of this project depends on it as well. We in LSV understand the need to raise credit. We understand the economic interest. But I remind you that the rule of the profession must be respected so that certain things don't happen, that we don't have bad consequences, and we'll also see after these floods that we'll have a lot of problems in repairing the damage due to uncleaned waters, uncontrollable dumps and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2146	The word has Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2147	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, on today's agenda, we have three laws on loans and loans and the NDS will be defined, in accordance with the answers we get from Mr. Minister, whether we support these contracts or not. It's undeniable that it's a loan, i.e. A billion-dollar loan is very favourable and we haven't had that kind of credit lately, but our question is, since Article 3 is. The law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia stipulates that the UAE government gives a three-billion-euro loan to the Republic of Serbia, and we get only a billion dollars, is it really true that Mr. Minister's finding that co-operation with the UAE is progressing properly? It was a quote. The second credit that is related to irrigation is calculated in the emirate dirhams. No one mentioned that here except that the equivalent is $97 million. The Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014 provides for UAE irrigation loans to be worth $275m, and this gives us a loan of less than $100m, which could also suggest that relations between the UAE and the Republic of Serbia changed compared to December last year when the Budget Law was adopted. It is speculated that the credit that will be used to build a 2.5% irrigation system when all the costs that exist in the contract are collected is 3.5%, but 3.5% is also an extremely favourable price for this type of credit. The contract provides for the right to withdraw loans to expire on 31 December 2017. By then, Serbia must build, given that it is project financing, it must first make all public procurements according to international standards and then build, i.e. realizes all the projects. Are the projects ready and is there a real possibility that they really will be realised by the end of 2017? The contract also envisions that within six weeks of the contract's conclusion, and the contract was concluded on 6 March this year, the Republic of Serbia forms a project implementation unit. Our question is, is this unit formed? It is also specified that, at the head of the project implementation unit, there is a qualified and experienced engineer whom the fund considers acceptable, the UAE considers acceptable and will make the unit an adequate domestic accounting and administrative staff that it considers satisfactory. Our question is, has an engineer been chosen to lead the project? Article 5(7) provides that the borrower, i.e. The Republic of Serbia is taking appropriate measures to gain ownership of land or land rights, which means we still do not have regulated property-legal relations for land where projects will be realised. Have you taken appropriate measures and has the Republic of Serbia acquired ownership of the land and when will it? The same Article of point 14 provides that the mutual intention of the borrower and the fund that no external debt has priority over the loan on the basis of the stock that was established over state assets after the conclusion of this contract. Can we know what stock the Republic of Serbia has given as security for returning this loan? The most interesting thing is that in the case of third-party arbitration, the deciding judge is appointed Secretary-General of the Arab League, probably under Sharia law. Our question is how many sheriatic law experts do we have in Serbia, and can we properly mate if arbitration occurs? Annex 2 of this Treaty provides that the project covers the development of 13 agricultural sites mainly in Vojvodina with a total area of 24,000 hectares. I also asked you ministers five or six months ago – how is the selection of locations where these irrigation systems will be realized? What are the criteria for selecting these locations and when will individual agricultural producers come? Here we have heard discussions of certain colleagues who say that individual agricultural holdings cannot develop without some support of what this is, and I say to them that this will not work on individual agricultural producers. Next question – will credit or support be provided for individual agricultural producers and the development of individual irrigation systems? There is one ambiguity that is in the light of this law where it says that the Republic of Serbia has received 31,000 ha in 11 locations for this phase, and in addition to the contract with the United Arab Emirates, it says it is 24,000 ha in 13 locations. If you can just specify whether it's 24,000 or 31,000 ha and whether it's 11 or 13 locations, and also if you can list those locations, we finally know where these funds are going to be channeled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2148	Thank you. Minister Lazar Krstic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2149	Thank you. I'm going to try to answer a few questions that have already been related to this. Let's start with these questions now, about co-operation with the United Arab Emirates to advance properly, as I said. As the first billion arrives, it arrives only now in May, management because we didn't have a parliament that could have ratified because, as you know, of the elections. She was signed in early March, if I'm not mistaken. Co-operation is progressing as it should, we also see this on several joint projects and, among other things, these two we are talking about today, for a direct budget loan and for a loan for agriculture. As for the same answer, the same goes for $97 million compared to $275 million in the budget for Abu Dhabi "Divelopment Fund". There are two types of loans we discussed and planned. One is the one that refers to the irrigation infrastructure, that's the one we're discussing today. He's got 200 million dollars for him. The other one we talked about also worth $200 million is providing a cheap source of funding for farmers, which you also addressed in one of your questions. So, the other one hasn't been negotiated yet, because it's simply agreed to go first with this for irrigation. No matter what 200 million dollars are scheduled, 100 million dollars is the first stage of that first part, so to speak. As we begin to implement it, how we develop other projects, which is why there are also funds in Annex II for this loan, we will continue to sign the next contract, if necessary. As far as terms are concerned, conditions are 3%. And you said yourself that's extremely good, 2.5 plus 0.5. Other conditions, it's a standard type contract. It's just, your question about stocking on state property is the typical question, if there's a stock, there's no stock, we haven't given any stock on this. The same goes for arbitration that ends in the Arab league. It's not something we're used to here, but we just haven't had these kind of loans in the recent past, I'd say in this modern one we're not these kind of guys. It's the result of natural bilaterals. That is, since nobody plans to go into arbitration around these concession loans with favourable rates. As far as the projects are concerned, the projects are 13, let me be very clear. For 24,000 ha the Ministry of Agriculture is in the previous term, there we have now had a change in the head of the Ministry of Agriculture, defined those projects in line with their long-term plans and strategies for agriculture and in line with where simple projects existed, or where they could immediately start working. You mentioned about it for four years. By the end of 2017, it is four years, in fact, what is foreseen in the fiscal strategy for the first $97 million. This is what was agreed with the Ministry of Agriculture and from the last talks I had, which was right before the elections of the Ministry of Agriculture was ready and certain that it would pull back in those four years. We were taught by the experience of some other loans in the talks in Abu Dhabi when we negotiated this question and there is a willingness of the other side to have no pens, if necessary, which I certainly hope will not be, and to extend time to withdraw these loans. As far as your question is concerned, has the unit been formed within six weeks of signing the loan? Because of the election and formation of the government, as far as I'm aware, and I'm going to check it out, and I'm going to answer that question later in the course of the session and this second, I believe it's not yet, but I also believe that soon, but in the next one, I'm not going to commit other ministers, but considering that we're signing a loan and that it will be ready to withdraw immediately, that the projects are ready, that the Ministry of Agriculture will take steps in that direction. I'll also read to you later on a full list of projects during the session. One thing you've set up regarding the reasoning of the law that references 31,000 ha and 14 projects. That is true, and I clearly think that this is referred to by one of the previous conclusions of the government that led to the negotiations. What is through the talks and through the prioritization that the Ministry of Agriculture has taken has come out with this final list that I mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2150	Alexander Senic answered the word. On what grounds? (Alexander Senic: Replica. I don't think I should give you a line, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2151	I'm not happy with the answer, so if Mr. Secretary can explain, that is, give a little more details. If you say that there are really good relations between the United Arab Emirates and the Republic of Serbia, does this mean that what is foreseen by the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2014 Budget, so three billion euros in credit, I ask this because this is an extremely favourable asset and it is good to have these loans as much as possible to refinance commitments and not for new borrowing, which unfortunately this government is doing, will the three billion euros of credit be granted this year and until when? Also, what is the time limit or when our individual agricultural producers can expect credit lines to develop their personal irrigation systems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2152	Thank you. Minister Lazar Krstic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2153	Very short. First, about the refinancing of expensive loans, i.e. borrowing. We're in debt, and that's what's clear again, to finance the deficit. The structure of the deficit, we've already discussed it several times, I wouldn't just abuse or bother this at all. As for the refinance of the loan, we've considered that option. There's the Director of the Public Debt Administration. We have a certain number of loans, we have a number of loans with Paris and the London Club that have an amortization interest rate, a certain number of loans, especially those that have been going directly from the international banking market in recent years, i.e. free trade bonds. I take into account the current prices of our bonds, as well as the conditions related to bilateral loans, i.e. the loans we have on the Paris and London Club, there are a few scenarios that we have worked out and we can make early payments, especially these loans that are related to the London Club's reprogramme. We'll assess on the market, depending on the conditions, whether we need it or not. As far as borrowing itself and the amount of three billion euros is concerned, you know perfectly, as an acquaintance and a member of the Committee, that what is stated in article 3 of the budget in terms of borrowing determines the framework and sets the conditions. These are very favourable loans, and I hope, as I have announced before, that we will have another tranche in the other half or before the end of the year, depending on how we address our deficit and depending on what conditions, and at present they are favourable, are on the bond market, specifically the euro area, at this point, which we did not have before. To be honest, I'm not even sure we're gonna need it to finance the budget deficit, even considering both the pre-financing and the full three billion. In the case of a loan for farmers, i.e. a cheap source to be used through commercial banks for giving farmers, this is where we worked out the methodology with, among other things, the Ministry of Agriculture. The budget provides for funds that we have not spent responsibly before the elections, although for this time as traditionally there has been great pressure, and related to the subsidisation of interest. We are part of it, but most of it has been preserved. The deal we had with the Ministry of Agriculture is that these funds are used as one of the auxiliary mechanisms so farmers can get cheap interest from a cheap source. Some deal was that this could be expected for autumn agricultural needs, so, for September-October and that's the plan we're going to work with. With the successful establishment of a project management unit, where the idea existed to be a water sector, I have just received additional information, six weeks of credit efficiency or ratification in the Assembly will be established. I think the possibility will open up for Abu Dhabi and his fund to discuss the next tranche, or the next mode of co-operation. Because it's simply unserious and we're trying not to do it, to talk about 17 things, and we're not finishing none of them, and we're not doing it. In this case, I would say that this delay of a few months from signing is completely understandable, considering that we had elections and that it simply took time to establish institutions, which was again done in record time in this case. I hope you're satisfied with the answer. I've left you an answer to this one question, and I'll tell you that later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2154	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since no one's registered in the system anymore, I wanted to ask if any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups wanted a word? Meanwhile, a representative of the DS parliamentary group, MP Borislav Stefanovic, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2155	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I've been reported. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, we have three loan laws. Since there is no "credit" in the Emirates, then the word "loan" is used because it is contrary, it seems to me, with some of their rules. Of course, the most talk about a billion-dollar loan and an irrigation loan is the most. What I'd like to say first of all is that the billion-dollar loan we're taking on this interest is favourable. Of course he is not the most favourable, as the prime minister said, and is not at all on the scale of what is being said these days – the largest, never recorded in history, etc. It just doesn't stand. The loan is with a favourable interest, however, Minister, you also know well that he could take credit with a lower interest rate than international financial institutions. This country has taken it. It is that there may be 1% less interest, but there is certainly less interest. So in that sense, it doesn't seem to be the most favourable loan ever. The second objection concerns why do we not have the credit specifications taken from Abu Dhabi for which infrastructure projects will be used? I think those specifications are necessary. We had to know and see in public what exactly a billion dollars would be used for, which seems to me to me something like 700, 800 million euros, to be used for? Because you ministers said on October 8th that so far there has been no roof control of public debt and that the government will now take the loans it will use for infrastructure projects. That's what you said, Minister Krstic, October 8th. So, since you said that, and since it's consistent, by chance, with an DS policy that suggests that all loans and loans be taken exclusively for infrastructure projects and development, not for consumption, if you agree with us in this case, give us a specification of what these funds will be used for. So, what do you intend to spend this money for? Why in three months didn't you make a precise plan for what you'd spend these funds on? For example, in the budget of the city of Belgrade, which was often hit by the majority, each loan was tied to a concrete infrastructure project. I think it's the right way and that's how it's supposed to be done in the future. Not only is it reducing the space for abuses, but the money being taken and paid by Serbian citizens to take it goes for things that will be useful for the future of this country. Otherwise, we think it should also be a legal obligation, that all these loans and loans are taken exclusively for the realisation of infrastructure projects and that it is also a legal obligation, because your government, i.e. The government of Mr. Vukic and before that, the government of Mr. Vukic has charged over six billion euros so far. And behind them, ladies and gentlemen and respected citizens have not left a single, to this day, infrastructure project. Not one. Minister, please tell us if you as finance minister in the previous government, in this government, did the Prime Minister Vukic then, and then the Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, did the Ministers of Infrastructure in your governments in the previous period make one factory, one school, one kindergarten, one bridge, one road, anything left for the six billion you owed to Serbian citizens? Unfortunately, Serbian citizens, the answer is no. What about the remaining two or three billion euros from the Emirats scheduled for the 2014 budget? When will this money be withdrawn and is pension and salary paid at risk if the announced credit is not realised? So, a very specific question. In the budget, you have projected billions more from the Emirates, and my question is – when will there be a realisation? If he doesn't come, will it endanger the payment of salaries and pensions in Serbia? We fear that your many announcements, not your own, but the manner of the entire government, the citizens of Serbia, mostly counts on their forgetfulness and that they will not remember what you promised everything and what towers and cities you offered to Serbian citizens, and then talk about jelly candies, chocolates, chemos and other things. Fortunately, however, we still have some memory. Since Mr. Vukic has repeatedly stated that this is the most favourable loan, therefore, a practical gift, if I have quoted correctly, I think it is very important that the public, you and fellow MPs know that Serbia took loans for the same purposes from the World Bank and the IMF in the previous period, which I just said, on unmatched terms, with interest below 1% and repayments from 20 to 30 years and grace period of 10 years. That's the facts. So this isn't any practical gift. It is convenient, but it can't be said that historical is the most favourable and never so phenomenal and other things we've heard for weeks through the mouth of you and the Prime Minister. How much irrigation can be realised, or how many projects do you have? Mr. Vukic said at the end of last year that you have a project for only 38 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2156	Mr Stefanovic, please address me as the chairman and minister, the Prime Minister is not present.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2157	I'm asking the minister, you didn't wait to hear the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2158	Please return to the hearing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2159	I think beneath every level that you interrupt me in the middle of a debate, I'm absolutely on the subject of the Law on Irrigation Loan.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2160	I'd just like to remind you that the Prime Minister is not present.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2161	He's a general presence who stands above all our heads and you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2162	Address me as chairman and the minister is here to hear your questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2163	I don't know why you're interrupting me. I repeat in the questionable form of Mr. Chairman, asked Minister Krstic if you have funds and if you have projects to irrigate specifically. Is that what I asked? Because the prime minister said, and you didn't wait until I finished the sentence, last year that the state of Serbia and the Serbian government only had 38m dollars in projects. This loan was first announced in December 2012, that is all facts. Why hasn't this government prepared these projects since then? Why in two years have you changed three agriculture ministers, if everyone knows and you all say that agriculture and the food industry are a key development opportunity for Serbia? A very specific question. If it's so important, why did you change three agriculture ministers? Why does the Prime Minister say you only have 38 million dollars in a project? If there's more, what are the projects and what are these $97 million from this loan going to be used for, which is less than $275 million, what did you predict in the budget of the United Arab Emirates, from Abu Dhabi, that's for irrigation? What is also a fact, as I said, is that Serbia has taken credits for irrigation three times lower interest and more favourable terms than this one. In order to remove any doubt that may arise in the debate, possibly after my presentation, Serbia's most expensive loan has ever been concluded by the government of Aleksandar Vukic for "The Iron Smederevo", the Euro Libor plus 7%. That's a fact. It is the most expensive loan Serbia has concluded. That's what your government has concluded. In order to also remove doubts, the city of Belgrade is in debt at an average rate of 2.84% without state guarantees, as I know some will now find some problems in this exhibition. Our government, therefore, the Yellow Government, as you say, has owed a total of seven billion euros, but has simultaneously invested 7.5 billion euros in infrastructure projects, economics, water and agriculture. The previous government in 2009 was in debt to the IMF to support the budget, and we are now paying the loan at 0.27%. That's the facts. Since I know that many of you "Anderseni" here who are sitting here now to take out their manuals, I say in advance, respected citizens, these are facts, and the rest is noise, anger and infirmity, but unfortunately also ignorance. What interests me very much, Minister, and what interests the citizens of Serbia, and I will end it for the time being, is why continue to be public with Serbia, and you know that we always look forward to when you are in the Assembly and you always come really, why haven't you published the Treaty with Ethicada, what did the prime minister promise? I quote -- by the end of the election campaign, we will announce a contract with Etihad, because we have nothing to hide, as well as a contract with "Fiita," the prime minister added. The end of the quote. So we don't understand why you're still not going to publish it? What's the matter with that contract? Why can't the citizens of Serbia see him? Have any problems with the investor about publishing the data from this contract been removed? I think it's something due to the citizens of Serbia. This government, Mr. Krstic, you know that Serbia has been in charge of huge funds for the two years you've been in power, raising the country's debt for nearly six billion euros. No infrastructure projects were created during that time. Serbia has become a very responsible state. We don't understand what this money is going to go to except for spending, budget spending. So, explain to us exactly what you mean to do with these 700, 800m euros to be taken under quite favourable conditions, but not the best in history. Explain to us when we can expect two, three billion euros a practical gift, a complete quote, as Mr. Vukic said and what you put into the projection of Serbia's 2014 budget. I hope that you will answer at least some of these questions, because I believe that these are primarily not the questions that I am asking you, but the public of Serbia, which despite all efforts, attempts to block and censorship still has the strength to ask you these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2164	Minister Lazar Krstic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2165	I'll be happy to answer all the questions you've asked, at least to the great majority. As far as the specification is concerned, this is the answer to Mr. Senic's previous question. So, I'll read the projects that are Tisa – Palić, South Backa - Ada, South Backa - Mali Ijoš, South Baca – Kikinda in Banat, Nova Crnja – Žitište in Banat, "dual pipe" system Jezerička, "dual pipe" system Pesir, "dual pipe" system Recej, "dual pipe" system Jankov bridge one and two, "dual pipe" system ITB one, "dual pipe" system Medja, it's all irrigation. Regional Water System Sword, Subsystem C, S, M six. The Parmenac hydro system in Čačka, reconstruction of the main channel and construction of the new network and Pančevački ass, the north side. Also, what's being prepared, and these are projects for which there is a project documentation. What's in preparation is the Alexine Field. Most of these are in Vojvodina because there were projects there. The rest of the Alexine field, the first phase under system one, the Resour Valley under system one, Smeder's widow's first stage plateau, the New Duke projected documentation, Mali Ijoš and Ada. I'm sorry if I'm not reading well because I'm not an agricultural expert. These are all questions to be asked by the Minister of Agriculture. So what we should also say is that when this loan was negotiated, the possibility was left to Abu Dhabi Development Fund the other side, with which we negotiated here in very friendly terms, recognized that we are only in the process of adopting a strategy for agriculture that I believe is presented to the public and that according to this, priorities will potentially change. And with that in mind, they've shown their willingness to do what we decide to do outside of these first projects that I said we have a project of documentation, we're going to want to re-enact the funds, that we're going to be able to do it. It's just a normal one practice that exists for other loans. After all, we've talked now and for more purposes about situations like these floods that have hit us, and that's entirely possible. The second thing, related to the spending of credit to this and to all others, they are not spent magically, they are spent through the budget and as such are subject to control of spending. After all, we're adopting them here in parliament. Between the other dynamics of spending these 97 million dollars we discussed together in the budget debate that we had in that same October that you mentioned. I hope this is the answer to this question. We can discuss agriculture further. I'm completely open. It is not simply the role of the Ministry of Finance to define what priority projects are in agriculture. The role of the Ministry of Finance is to determine the financial framework and to provide funds and to provide to the extent possible favourable contracts, which I certainly think it is. I regret to say that these things you've been saying about borrowing simply show an elementary ignorance of matter related to the subject. That's why I'm saying it. The IMF funds that you said we were in debt, whenever you get money from the IMF, they're assets that go by the name of the so-called so-called. ‘special drawing rights’. These are our funds to be given. It's not borrowing in that sense. So they're different and that's why there are contracts with the IMF. These are the funds that have been withdrawn. I believe you're talking about this when there was a contract with the IMF during the 2009 global financial crisis. You said it wasn't the most favourable loan we owed ourselves, specifically, this billion of 2%. Two percent nominal interest with a 10-year grace. You mentioned borrowings from international financial institutions. So we have a nominal interest rate of 2% every 10 years. We have a variable interest rate in international financial institutions, which means juboron, which is a reference interest rate, you certainly know, in the EU on the interbank market, plus the smallest addition to that reference interest rate of 0.27%, even more. I pulled out now, I'm talking about a 10-year loan, and I apologize for looking at it like this, since 1999, the height of the jumbo added to that 0.27%. For all those who do not know, the jubor, as well as the reference interest rate in our country, as well as the reference interest rate on any other banking market for repo operations, including in the US, varies depending on how economic, or monetary policy is conducted, depending on the role of the National Bank and on what conditions the economy and market is. Here, let me read it from 2005. On the first day of 2005, we have 2.2%, a jumbo of 2.06%, then 2006, in 2007, 3.9 almost, 4.7%, 2.9 and only after the financial crisis in 2009 is it going down, because it is the conduct of economic, or monetary policy. So, in economic cycles that certainly happen and last less than 10 years, what the maturity of this loan would be, it would be expected, and that shows simply the empirium, that the interest rate, that the eurobor will go to more than what it is right now, and that's 0.41%)%. So, if you'd gone to that higher price, we'd be paying the interest that's for example. 4.2 plus 0.27 on these loans, so 4.4%, and this loan is more favourable. The nominal rate of 2%, unlike variable rates, is the lowest one we have on budget debt, on debt to finance the deficit. This includes even DPL from the World Bank and other things that go to variable interest rates. It's just a fact. You did one contradictory thing. You asked if there would be money to pay off pensions and salaries unless we owed three billion to the United Arab Emirates. That's what I've been talking about, but to remove any suspicion. Yes, of course there will be money, but what is there is worrying then you said – the law should limit ourselves so that we can only be in charge of infrastructure projects. If we were to limit ourselves by law that we could only be in charge of infrastructure projects, then we would have to be why or sell assets to finance a budget deficit that consists of precisely paying off, among other things things and wages and pensions, that is, we would have to stop paying our salaries and pensions if we would tie our hands in that way. I'm sure you didn't want it that way. After all, you said that the most expensive credit on which the state owed its loan was a jumbo plus 7%, which, by the way, is less than 7.5% in the current jumbo. The first Eurobond we issued was 7.5%, and we issued it in 2011. I'd also like to say that it's not government debt even though it is with the guarantee of the state. Therefore, this loan was taken by the ‘Georgia’ with the state guarantee under Article 37, so-called ‘Georgia’. the superguarantee of the Development Fund under Article 37 of the previous budget which we have abolished so that this would no longer be done. Moreover, I will rely on it, because there were comments in yesterday's debate about it, we, acting responsibly, and not wanting to hide what we're spending money on, decided that it was very transparent for these public enterprises that would be more expensive than the state is in debt even with state guarantees because they're in a situation where they're in, and in which they've been brought from various political and all kinds of other social enterprises, to finance them, to give them loans directly from the budget and, as such, to enter the deficit. That's what we did, for example, with "Serbiagas." Government decisions have several times already this year, since they have not been in charge as foreseen by the Budget Law, and it appears on the deficit, which is another reason why our deficit, this republican one that is all being followed, and which is only part of the overall picture, is greater in the first four months than it was in the previous years. We intend not to work anymore to show better numbers, and that's why we said 7.1% last time, although what was in the budget was less than the previous budget, what we defended at the republican level, and that's why we're going to do what was economically rational. If we, as a state at this point, are in debt 5%-6%, and “Srbigas” or “Glevazar” by 7%, 8% or 9%, we would rather, if we have already made a decision, try to privatise and maintain it. We gave ourselves a deadline to keep her alive for a while, and then we'll at least fund her a way that will cost us the least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2166	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Now I would like to give a word to the president of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. ( b) Replication to your presentation?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2167	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your lecture on the respect of the Rules of Procedure, as I would like to thank Mr. Minister for the really professional answer to some unsuspecting questions. The elections made in Serbia on 16 March 2014 showed how many people in Serbia believe in fairy tales. In fairy tales, the "stelt", invisible DS projects are trusted by 6.05% of people in Serbia and I don't blame them. People believe in fairy tales. They like to believe in fairy tales. It's a legitimate right. On the other hand, these same elections have shown that the real, realistic and honest policies of Aleksandar Vukic and SNS believe half of Serbia's citizens and there is no fairy tale. No matter how many people in this room hate us, no matter how many people in this room use every moment of demeaning, for disdaining hate, you hate us, but we will continue to do our job for which Serbian citizens have defined us, both Alexander Vukic and Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs of the SNS here and we will remind you of all your "stelt" invisible projects. On the other hand, if these 7.5 billion dinars were invested during the four years of the DS and Dragan Gilas government, where we haven't seen any infrastructure project completed, or is it a recognition that the bridge on Adi costs 7.5 billion euros, or perhaps in these infrastructure facilities you mean the reconstruction of the Bulevar King Alexander who has been overpaid six million euros, or are you referring to Poželjk Street dealing with the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime? We do ground floor stuff, we do "Belgrade on Water". We are dealing with a building that will be the highest in the Balkans. We promised it to people, we'll make it happen by 2017, while you and your mayor and your party president were dealing with underground and some underground containers, I think, we're dealing with a real and real policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2168	Thank you. Replica was reported by MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2169	Mr. Secretary, first, before I tell you a few words, I'd like to speak to the predecessor. There's a huge victory for the SNS in the election. A lot of people voted for SNS. We congratulated you on that. Half of the voters voted for you, but only a correction, please, not half of Serbia's citizens, but half of Serbia's citizens to the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2170	Mr. Stefanovic, speak to me as chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2171	What is certain is that stealth technologies and fairy tales certainly do not mean reduced employment in Serbia, nor the office for fast answers that do not exist, nor six billion euros in new debt, nor the asphyxiation of the media and freedom in Serbia, nor the promise that we will return aflatoxin, that we will reduce unemployment, that it will rush two, three billion Arab couples into Serbia's budget, which Minister Krstic also designed in the budget. I asked you, Minister, since you presented this money in the Assembly as a budget, that it would be at a specific location, we ask you, when will it arrive, for what purpose will it be used for? That's all. Since you've listed the irrigation projects nicely, I'm asking you why it's not a belonging part of the material, i.e. The bill we got? I think it would be correct for every MP to see what you've read. You didn't answer me for Etihad, again. Why can't the citizens of Serbia see Etihad? It's also one of the stealth technology of the advanced government. So, we have a contract, but no one sees it, so when you call on a stealth, then you think about Etyhad or think about other things that Serbian citizens can't see, and you promised to see. So that's the difference between what you're saying. Minister, I hate that you say in the Serbian Parliament that we don't have those loans, we wouldn't have money for salaries and pensions. So we're a country in bankruptcy that depends on foreign money. You just said that. It's terrible to hear from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2172	Time. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2173	Article 104. The exposure to the UAE loan is mentioned. As an economist, I had a need to report on the exposure of the predecessors of the loan and the UAE agreement, especially regarding the mention of the stability of their currency of dirham. I'll speak exclusively of an economic point of view and aspect. In a country which is both "standard and por's" and "fitch", which means in the first 10 countries for competitiveness as a investment destination, as the country that has the best quality and best investment environment in the whole world. Of course, I can't not mention the fact that we're talking about the Abu Dhabi Development Fund, that we're talking about Mubadala, that we're talking about the Emmar Corporation, which all belong to society among the 20 first world corporations by capital and property, and this particular Abu Dhabi Development Fund, through which we're going to get a credit for irrigation, has investments in 56 countries in the world and is currently performing 315 of these operations in our country. So these aren't companies from either the Virgin Islands or the Cayman Islands. These are companies that have world rankings, which are ranked according to the ratings of the world's largest and best agencies. I ask you all to work together and support this government that wants to bring the best and the best companies, not those companies whose capital we don't know where it comes from and that have ruined our economy through the privatisation and investment process in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2174	Thank you. The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2175	Art. 103rd and 104th, Mr. Chairman, you have violated the Rules of Procedure. You gave a word to the previous MP to speak first through a replica, which he has no right to, and the replica is to expose not the previous speaker. You gave him your word to talk about the dirham and the value of the dirham, which Alexander Senic spoke of 15 minutes ago. On what basis do you give the word and the right to abuse the Rules of Procedure? You're an officer right now. 103 and 104 flagrantly violated. You didn't even listen to what he was saying. Don't do that, as I see it, there's a gentleman I found more difficult to recognize because he doesn't have the tablecloth, but don't do the same thing now with the adversaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2176	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Babic, as head of the parliamentary group, replicating the presentation of Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2177	Thank you. Someone who spells well and writes fairy tales may also be called Andersen, but what's the name of someone who's telling the truth? Aflatoxin in Serbia was returned to the 0.05% limit, so this rhetorical question was addressed to the previous speaker. As for the office for quick answers, this parliament will be able to express itself and refer to the law on the office for quick answers by the end of July. In some cities in Serbia, which are more agile, faster, under the leadership of the SNS, as the town of Kruševac has already introduced the Office for Quick Answers. On several occasions, I offered to visit the unbelieving Toms, to see the satisfaction of those people who consume all these things that the Office of Quick Answers or One Stop Shop provides. There is a big difference between JAT and Er Serbia, not only in my name, and I prefer this name Er Serbia, I believe many in this hall, but also because Er Serbia has become a company that transports its passengers safely and safely to eight years of age unlike the previous company, a company that in the first quarter of this year has shown excellent financial results that are extremely transparent and visible, unlike the former JAT company donated and subsidized by citizens of the Republic of Serbia with 55m euros each year. Another thing in the end, I agree that the SNS won half the voter vote on 16 March. However, that logic is observed, the DS then won 3% of the total voter entries and then here I see a stealth parliamentary group that is below the censorship, which has not even reached the censorship. Math is an exact science that should apply to everyone, so we have one stealth parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2178	Thank you. People's MP Borislav Stefanovic answered, but you do not have the right to reply. This closes the circle of replicas. The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2179	I'm advocating Article 107, it must respect the dignity of the National Assembly. (President: You have already reached out to that member. What? (President: You have already reached out to that member. I didn't answer on this one. I checked in with Articles 103 and 104 earlier, if you remember, and this is Article 107. (President: here you go. You have to listen to me more carefully. So, the previous speaker, wanting to show the strength of his party and his MP groups, insulted another parliamentary group in this assembly by calling it "stelt", i.e. Invisible, to allow Serbian citizens to understand the parliamentary group. I think it's something that you shouldn't have allowed, because someone can present facts, qualifications, even speak data, if they know them, in this case no, but that someone who stands on the opposite side and deeply insults dignity. It would be just as I would say that "stelt" is a small graduation, a "stelt" channel to Thessaloniki, a "stelt" 100 billion euros investment by Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic, a "stelt" 10,000 billion from China announced by Minister Bacevic, a "stelt"... Do you understand? They're the only ones who aren't "stelt" ministers around the flood, since each of them had their own camera to take pictures of him. It's not a stealth. And they now insult us, they say, we are an invisible messenger group. You shouldn't have let that happen, really. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2180	I thank you, MP Stefanovic, but you have brought the word "stelt" into debate today. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2181	I'm advertising Article 32. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I really think, Mr. Chairman, that even when mathematics is interpreted and the number of votes won, but also the attitude towards MPs, it must be and it is necessary to be the same. By interpreting mathematics, I have called it and will call it an invisible or "stelt" parliamentary group, because by the same mathematics that tries to reduce the trust SNS and Aleksandar Vucic have in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the same mathematical group of DS did not deserve to enter parliament. On the other hand, when it comes from a man who called my respected colleagues, but also from all others, called them "stelt" or invisible, respecting the mathematics he has brought into this National Assembly, who came from a man who called all my respected colleagues, but also from all the others, who called them "flies," he called these, with no respect and no respect for this high home and the collegiation and parliament and election results and the citizens of Serbia, who sent us here to represent them, a mockery and lack of elementary domestic education, but only regrets the boast of the authorities in which he grew up and only used to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2182	Thank you. The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2183	The previous speaker mentioned Article 32, which had nothing to do with what he was saying. You let him talk. I advertise 106th and 107th because an insult has been made. It has been said that I do not know that I live except in a system that applies and is in power. That is indeed, you will agree, a very low qualification of fellow Babic and you have allowed it, because you are comfortable with what he has to say against those who are multiplely weaker in this assembly. I did not challenge any moment of strength and the number of votes you received, but I did, not by my mathematics, because there is neither my math nor his mathematics, but only one, said the percentage of citizens who went to the elections. To reciprocate with insults to what has been said, it is truly unacceptable. I don't know why you play things like that. You are from the same party, but you chair the National Assembly and all MPs should be equal. You can't let anyone think it's an insult if you say he's a goat. From what I understand, you love Russians and you like goats. What's that insult to you? And when did I say that? How many months ago? Well, he said we stick our heads in the sand like an owl, so no one was offended. It's called some metaphor, you understand? This is really inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2184	Please, let's get back to the debate. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2185	On several occasions, I've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't know why you didn't give it to me. I'm advertising Article 109 because there was a direct address just now, specifically to me. I'm glad to see the gentleman of honor watching the shows I'm running. I've done something in my life, I haven't played in a group, which apparently determined his political career, and it was called "a generation without a future". His authority and what he represents have been left here for generations without a future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2186	The word has a representative of the SNS parliamentary group, Dr Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2187	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, after all the presentations of my colleagues, representatives of political parties on today's agenda, what needs to be concluded at the beginning is, perhaps you didn't know, because you didn't have a chance to participate in Serbia's political life, that the changed concept, the principle of state functioning. It used to be the principle that companies, local self-governments were first in debt, and then after 6-7 months, it comes with how many loans the state needs to borrow, and at the end of the year, in December, we come to the Assembly session, where a 1.4 billion-euro loan is adopted by different international institutions and different types of contracts. It was a practice until 2012. Now we have a different practice. The right one, which financially enables Serbia to become an interesting investment state, for investors, is to make a plan first, to adopt a budget planned for 2014, and to conclude contracts in 2014 and agreements with interested institutions and states that lend loans, and to collect all types of projects from certain areas, and then go into the implementation of such projects. This is the fundamental difference between the past and the present, between the new government and the new concept of state and the 2012 SNS on the political scene, where it became the ruling party, where it became the Serbian government's headquarters, and now it has its prime minister since 2014. It is an indication that the party has a vision of how Serbia should run the economy, as it has found itself in major problems. I don't want to talk much about it, but I'm going to remember one appearance by the governor of the NBS, which is that it brought in one sheet with 232 credits on different bases from 2000 to today, where credit lines were set at 8.3% per year. It's just talking about the irresponsibility of borrowing. When we talk about the fact that there used to be some favourable loans, then we forget the part... Probably most of my colleagues don't know that a different borrowing system is when you have a certain interest rate, and the obligation to introduce certain technologies into projects, to pay certain foreign experts according to certain instructions, then you don't have the freedom to invest in your country, in some of the projects that are in infrastructure, so we get the result we have, which is that opening infrastructure projects and building some important roads takes us 10-15 years. That's why you show yourself, as a state, unstable, irresponsible, first to yourself, and then no one else respects you in the environment. These today's proposals for a debt agreement, above all, in relation to the Arab Emirates worth billions of dollars, are practically starting and ending with the concept of reducing the budget deficit for 2014, or covering the budget deficit, but it shows that Serbia is one stable in a political environment, an acceptable and interesting state, because the other and countries from both the east and the south and the north really believe what it is doing, that it simply merits certain attention, that it has some credibility, and that because of that, many people have confidence to invest on different grounds in Serbia. Of course, it was necessary to achieve certain preconditions. These preconditions are obviously a consolidation of public finances that cannot be achieved overnight, which was also needed in 2012, 2013 and 2014, that in just one place all finances are collected and see how real revenues are, how real expenditure is, how real there really are employees in the public sector, and so far, this has not been the case. And with that, you get into a situation where you can really say that our country has this kind of capital, this many employees, and this practically real budget. It should be commended, before we go at all to this part of the law itself which approves loans, i.e. that they came for ratification in the Serbian Parliament, that this is an international obligation for Serbia, which is that parliament approves certain borrowings, but it should be commended for this part of which you are simply trying to remove the companies in restructuring. This clearly proved to be the cancer of our economy. It is true that there are a large number of employees, it is true that we will have problems with a number of people who will need to be poured from the public sector into the private sector and that this is a great deal of pain, but it is also true that stability of the budget would ensure that this billion dollars is needed to simply cover a certain budget deficit. Exactly what you said about us having to have credit lines to cover the budget, but we also have to have loans to infrastructure projects. What this session has shown is that we have not only been in debt with the Arab Emirates, but there are certain credit lines that are in the programme with the European Investment Bank. These loans show that the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which we are talking about so much, really need to be one dizziness in Serbia's economy, that they should in some way wake up all those people who would be dealing with certain projects and from the field of information, from energy, but from one point of view, that is, the private sector and what is interesting is that they exist in the European Investment Bank's credit which the National Bank of Serbia has concluded under this agreement, which came to us practically for adoption, shows that there are two components exclusively incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises and the other part relating to the general projects that are just related to these specific areas that are even non-profits, such as health and education, and that is what gives hope somewhere that the economy and the number of employees should increase, and of course, in line with yesterday's session, where the government has provided certain incentives for direct employment. Why is this loan related to the European Investment Bank also interesting? Because according to the first component of small and medium-sized enterprises exclusively, the first component goes through business banks, agents between the European Investment Bank and the NBS and small and medium-sized enterprises will be commercial banks, which gives the first component the possibility of crediting at 12 years from four years of grace periods with very favourable interest, that the minimum funds that can be provided through credit lines are 5.5m euros. The second credit line, which we are talking about, general design and priority projects in the field of energy and infrastructure, as well as education and health care as I said, will provide for 15 years with five years of grace periods. Why is that interesting? Because certain projects in the area simply cannot be implemented for a smaller period, and this would be a great burden for these small and medium-sized enterprises that are already heavily in charge of certain commercial loans that they have had the opportunity to raise. This should be one wind in the back to open, or bridge many projects where our small and medium-sized enterprises have found themselves. What is interesting is that the European Investment Bank has limited the ability to place these funds for businesses. This is the following way – up to 12.5m euros in small businesses can withdraw those funds for certain projects to 100%. But between 12.5m and 25m euros up to 50% of the bank will participate in loans, i.e. projects with small and medium-sized enterprises. What kind of picture does that give us? It gives us a picture that it really meant this, micro-enterprises that have up to 10 employees, small companies from 50 to 100 employees and large enterprises that will go under special programmes, and then in some way help this public sector, which we are talking about so much, to realize certain ideas and to hire a lot of people. I purposely left for the end of this draft law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Abu Dhabi Development Fund, which will be purposely spent on irrigation. What's important is to say that such dedicated loans should give us a chance to fix a lot of things that we've never had a chance to do before. It's a government commitment, which no government has ever thought about systemically or worked on before. By 2010, we had the investment of the example working in the water industry, and even in flood defense systems worth two billion dinars from the budget directly and plus so many more funds withdrawn from the World Bank's loan. At that time, we had maximum flood values that were defended in 2006 in a certain way. Since 2010, when the Ministry of Economy and Finance proposed a new law on water in a given part, it has been said that all revenues coming from water-based taxis are poured directly into the budget and are spent depending on the programme in which it will be presented. Programmes that serve as flood defenses for a certain year were no longer used for this, but were worth two to five billion dinars, 300 to 400 million dinars, and other credit lines designed to edit the ski resorts and adapt the terrain. These were non-sensuals that happened each year individually. Not to mention that the jurisdiction of the example for "Serbian Water" is divided into "Vojvod's Water", "Belgrade Water", and that you have received approximately public enterprises that have begun to choke in debt. Another piece of information you may know, perhaps not, which is that there are about 1,000 water companies that have remained in the spirit of social enterprises. Many of them are in big trouble about bankruptcy, surely one quarter. One quarter are in large debt by different types of loans, and they are not blocked. One quarter of projects have provided certain funds that have been transferred from the budget, but not enough for them to work and survive at all. Privatisation was carried out in one quarter of these companies, but it has been shown that the water sector had nothing to do with the lack of funds. I think the irresponsibility of the owners back then was because they didn't want to hear what the waist said, and the waist just said it was necessary to edit the water system. This includes a flood protection system and a flood defence system, as well as a system that addresses wastewater issues. I've had the opportunity to defend a law that applied to ministry laws and I've really been a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, the protection of the environment in some way is a natural clue if you want as a state to raise certain systems. And here the devil, it hasn't been a few days, and it has proved that the concept is correct, and now that Serbia is in a very difficult state, as far as water and flood defense systems are concerned at all. Simply this way of functioning and rerouting dedicated loans for certain projects shows that we needed it. When we talk about irrigation this loan also has some two components, which is that the first component refers to agricultural products, and one component refers to irrigation. This component, which is now talking about the first phase and the 275m-euro area, shows that these 97m is just practically the first position for which projects exist. I realized, and I'm probably right, that we have a chance to pull the next project lines through the implementation of these projects if we prepare adequate project documentation. I believe that Serbia is very much needed, and very important that this agreement and this practical loan must have an implementation unit for the implementation of these projects, for the simple reason that people who will act on international standards in terms of finance, but this technical and technological application of new technologies, means that people who will sit there from the profession will simply follow the realisation of this project. Why does it matter? Because then really these means that come from certain tranches go according to certain situations, by construction facilities, they are followed by their realization and only by you can from the beginning to the end do the work, but then you won't have additional works worth 100% as it happened that the bridge, the one we're building in Serbia in Belgrade, for that money we can build two, or three bridges, then there's no such thing. It's just that we have a lot of financial control here and it's perfectly justified that those who are lenders want to control the funds they invest in. And what I would say in the end is that we can't talk about irrigation at this time, in a situation where we've had this kind of flood damage, to say that it's just come to the charge of everything that hasn't been done at all and that's misrepresented to the people, so that somewhere people have swept away and simply didn't assume that climate change can happen that would lead to a practical threat to life. There are institutions that have directed that all ultimately are threatened by certain climate change, someone more or less, that there are countries in the region that will have more or less damage, that we in the country have had previous experiences on this issue, but somewhere we have lost responsibility about never asking a question – and where are the funds from the abolition of the Yugoslav Army, when it passed on to the professional army – what happened to the assets of the Yugoslav Army, which then went beyond the principle of civil protection? All countries have this developed system, and believe it or not, they run the former SFRY models and claim that these civil protection models were the best. We somehow put it in a package of communist heritage and somehow we distance ourselves from all these models of civil protection, and believe me, even Norwegians who have models like Inserag today are doing certain trials and models and include a complete civil sector, all NGOs in this part of the defense against droughts, floods, slides, earthquakes. Therefore, we need to think widely about this subject. This irrigation-related loan is also practically the beginning of the recovery of the damages that have occurred. Now is the moment when Serbia and Serbian citizens have realised the responsibility of at all certain topics in society such as climate change and the development of agriculture in one modern way, which is why it should really be involved in everything society presents to us, and the Serbian Government and the current Ministry of Finance now gives us the opportunity through certain credit lines, through the disbursement of the financial that has taken so far due to earlier credits to try simply to run our economy in an adequate way. What neither the SNS nor this government will stand down on is those four pillars of economic reform, that's the pillar that's talking about curbing the grey economy where this inspection surveillance will have to be stepped up, where it will have to be this part that concerns infrastructure and encourages the construction industry to grow.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2188	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2189	Thank you. This part concerning this lending is one positive thing, one very important thing for the Republic of Serbia, for all our businesses and in the day of voting we will fully support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2190	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. We move to the order of the MPs according to the application for a word in a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda, Article 96(1), paragraph 4, Article 98(1) and (2). Rules of Procedure. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, according to that people's country, for various reasons and for the wrong system established in 1945 and because we didn't understand what was going on in the world and Europe in 1990, but we did part with our former brothers in one wrong way that cost us the most, and because of the robbery privatisation that was carried out primarily by the heirs of those who set up this system in 1945 and for a number of other reasons, our country is now in a position by that folk joke when the poor guy got married, so when they asked him what was most urgent to you, and he said, it's urgent for me. Serbia is in a position of its own, and you as finance minister indeed have a difficult and responsible task. We would like to keep in line with the best of our finance ministers in our work and for the results of our work, with people who have remained remembered in terms of macroeconomic stability, fiscal stability and finance. I will mention some, from the famous Lazar Paco via Governor Avramovic to Prime Minister Ante Markovic. Today, everyone in the world is looking for money, everyone is looking for favourable loans, looking for the most developed countries, and thanks above all to the good political relations with the United Arab Emirates, thanks to the resourcefulness of this government and the common business interests, we have come to this billion dollars that will primarily serve for the various needs of the budget. What I wanted to propose to you in future ministers, both for the public and for the political parties and for the debate in parliament, when we get this kind of material, there should be a little more information. We just heard about these irrigation projects, etc. We know the state of irrigation and everything else, but it would simply simplify and specify the debate. Serbia is today the worst in Europe, according to many indicators. That's the way we are about irrigation. As for small and medium-sized enterprises, in developed countries, above all, the EU, around 60-70% of the production of waste services to small and medium-sized enterprises, and the private sector here is largely choked by the unfavourable environment that creates the state. We would like this government's mandate to be appreciated for whether this economic environment has changed in a better way. One of these measures is this loan from the European Investment Bank. It is certain that, I'll agree with respected colleagues, a billion-dollar loan under such conditions is something that is favourable and that doesn't take time. What will be our assessment and what we have insisted on, not only in this government, but also in all previous governments, which is that our largest export branch, agriculture, which is in a very difficult position in all possible indicators, is classified into an economic branch that will be "the government's favorite". For what? It's precisely because of the huge potential we have in agricultural production that we haven't used. We've got 4.9 million acres of farmland, but we're at an irrigation rate below 5%. Once again, we are the worst in Europe. The built channels that served elsewhere throughout Serbia do not serve to a large extent the current purpose of irrigation. They are often covered with waste, so they cannot be used to drain excess water, let alone water.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2192	I'm sorry. I'd like to ask the MPs to allow our colleague, Chiquiriz, to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2193	Thank you. One of the classic examples is the Great Baba Channel, which has fully grown and many say in a pesoratic sense that it is Europe's largest cesspool. In the world, about 17% of the farmland is under a irrigation system, which produces about 40% of the world's total food, and in the future it is expected to be around 60%. We believe that even existing irrigation systems do not have a fully rounded technological integrity, so it is used entirely, or with 100% capacity somewhere between 1/3 or 1/2 of that system. There hasn't been, especially in the last 20 years, any serious investment in large irrigation systems. What some governments have done before is give certain incentives to individual agricultural landowners for irrigation systems, from arterial wells to irrigation nets. We think that this policy should be implemented even more offensively in this government, that these incentives should be even greater. No matter what anyone thinks about the water system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and no matter what we really have, we have a lot of springs, rivers, lakes and everything else, our water system is not entirely favourable, so that the layman can be done at first sight. Especially in southern Serbia, and even around Velika Morava where about four million inhabitants live, and only below the Ljubicevski Bridge is about 35 metres of cubic flow of water in one second, which is absolutely insufficient given the large number of farmland in the Velika Morava Basin and the large number of population. So, who's in charge of solving this irrigation problem? First of all, the state. In what way? Building large irrigation systems and giving more favourable incentives to individual agricultural holdings. For example, it's an interesting statistic that in the last 100 years we've only had 17 years with a favourable rainfall regime, and 32 years have been with excess rainfall, and 51 years have been... (President: Time.) I've also extended 15 seconds. I'm done. ... with a smaller or larger drought. This is just the beginning of some new policy and some new relation to agriculture in the irrigation segment and everything that goes in this direction we will support in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2194	Thank you, fellow Chikirizu. Before I give my word to Dr. Muamer Bacec, I would like to ask the MPs for silence so that we can provide other colleagues with a speech and a good and good hearing in the hall. Thank you in advance. The word is Dr. Muamer Bačevac, and let a colleague of Sinisa Maksimovic prepare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2195	I would like first of all to thank Mr. Minister for his excellent explanation. There's something we learned today from the economy. We have seen and we all agree that today's loan that we adopt is a positive thing and is a rare thing in today's day. However, we learned some other things, and we knew something. We knew that diram was a stable currency, one of the most stable in the world, in the business world. We knew that Serbia has a lot of Sharia lawyers, which is the wealth of this country. What I want to say and particularly underline is the seriousness of this investment fund and this group, that is, this state. In fact, Mr. Professor Vladimir Marinkovic also stated that under these conditions they rarely lend loans and give only when they can fertilise their capital and when they see the seriousness of a particular state in this field. So I can also set a negative example. Namely, this fund did not grant a 50m-euro loan to the Montenegrin group of businessmen...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2196	I'm sorry, Comrade Bacevac. I'd like to ask the MPs once more, these are impossible conditions for work, if you can allow a colleague, we'll have what is wise and instructive to hear. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2197	I repeat, this fund did not allow Montenegro's Vectra Montenegro company and five other private firms to receive loans for which they have opened the tender, as they have failed to meet the conditions. What do I mean? What I'm saying is that their investment is extraordinary and that they only monitor the possible development and profitability of what they invest. It's supposed to implode this country and this government. In that sense, Ambassador Al Dahri's statement the other day, saying that Serbia is one of the richest countries in this part of Europe, and that Serbia, as such, along with the United Emirates, will benefit and benefit from this investment and this loan. What I'm trying to say is that the potential for improving these relationships is really numerous, in industry, in trade, in science, etc. But it really doesn't stand what we heard from the opposition's representatives and I think it's cynical to say, or at least to suspect, that the statements that relations with the United Emirates are in stagnation or that they are expressing suspicion. It's not at least state-of-the-art to their country that they think well of. What should we say about the fact that the other day they gave 10 million dollars to help the flooded in Serbia? What do we say to the fact that they were here last week and that they visited the New Sad Fair, that they announced, which I especially look forward to, especially those citizens that I represent primarily directly in Sandzak, that we will sign a memorandum of co-operation and mutual understanding in tourism? All of this is guaranteed to go, that this government is going and developing this country in the right direction, that investment will be, as Mr Marinkovic said, supervised and that it will be strictly monitored as invested, that we will get new technologies through these investments, that we will have this quality development. I heard it here, and I'll agree with that, a loan really good. What a 2% loan and grace would be over a 10-year period. That's what any of us would take in private. So the loan is more than enough. There's justification. People want to work with us. We have good friendships. In that sense, I also want to take advantage of the presence of people in my area, and I am just mentioning that really people living in Sandzak can be and contribute to the special improvement of these relationships. I'm encouraged by someone mentioning Sharia lawyers. There's a lot going on with us. These are serious people, professors in both Belgrade and Novi Pazar. There are a lot of people in Pazar who know Arabic, who know brilliant Arabic culture and tradition, people who want to help this country, people who want to be a cement in tying this country to Arab countries to achieve the same quality relationship we had with them during the SFRY period. That's our advantage. And that's the advantage of this country. In the end, I want to say that in this first phase, as far as I've seen, we have 14 municipalities to invest in. That's a good thing. You should invest in Vojvodina. It's our base and base. However, as I understand it, we will have the opportunity to withdraw 200 million more times or something indicative if we have quality proposals. I would like to point out that we have a cave high that is god-given for the development of livestock, that we have the best conditions to grow something that the Arabs are looking for and what's in the trend, eh? We have a heightened plateau that's ecological. It doesn't exist in another part of Europe. We need to enrich our cattle stock. There used to be a million sheep on the Cave, and now we have about 50,000. That's what you need to be serious about. Since these are the items that this market wants and where we can dominate as a country. I think the arguments are valid. I don't think the opposition today has given any quality arguments that we could seriously interpret, even moreover, their debates and discussions have shown ignorance of economic criteria and economic parameters. I want to say that the representatives of my parliamentary group will support this proposal, and believe me, we in Sandzak are particularly looking forward to close ties like this, because once again I repeat, we can be with our knowledge and our desire for the progress of this country's cement that will bind this country not only to the United Arab Emirates but to the complete Islamic world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2198	Thank you for your inspiring speech. The word has Siniša Maksimovic. Let the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2199	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, I am a National MP from Kruševec and, above all, represent and represent the citizens of Kruševac and Rasinski County, and in the interests of Serbia and all its citizens. I would like to say that the citizens of Kruševec at this difficult moment for the country of Serbia and for a number of its citizens have made it the most possible for this serious disaster to be overcome in some way. A large number of Kruševac citizens from the Rasin district directly participated in the rescue, people and property in the areas that were threatened by these large floods. I want to say something that maybe the citizens of Serbia don't know, that a huge contribution has been made to the public utility water pipeline from Kruševec. In what way? In such a way that this public utility company manages with the accumulation of a cell from which a large number of our citizens in Kruševec, and if God gives a number of citizens of Cicicec, Barvarina and other Pomorava municipalities water supplies in the coming period. This public enterprise is precisely the proper handling of this lake, this accumulation, i.e. By dropping water from it, when it was possible, and of course when it was most critical, a large part of the water carried by the Rasina River was accepted, thus preventing an even greater disaster along West Morava and Great Morava from going on. So far, more governments and more agriculture ministers have changed in Serbia. All governments have made great promises in the past that they are about to invest more funds in this unused resource, which is agriculture. I am convinced that this government and the Minister of Agriculture will take this opportunity and here's the first big step, and this is a huge investment in exactly what we're talking about today, which is this irrigation project. We have great resources to produce all agricultural cultures. Our farmers are hardworking, hardworking people, working their fields, but very often the weather accidents prevent them from picking up what they planted. The damages of weather disasters must be protected by the state. The greatest damage to them is the city and the drought. Although it is often said that something can be kidnapped from the city, since the dry year almost nothing. For these reasons, it is good to invest irrigation. This irrigation loan will mostly be invested in Vojvodina. I think it's for the reason he'll pay off and return in his hometown of Vojvodina. The state, or government, must think about other regions when it comes to irrigation, and these are the valleys of West, South, Great Morava, and of course other parts of Serbia. Our citizens know that the state is over-indebted, and they don't like any new responsibilities, but I think they understand that this is a very favourable credit debt that will be returned to the state very quickly and paid off. For these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group will vote to take this irrigation loan and for these other two loans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2200	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Let the People's MP Alexander Jovicic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2201	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very pleased to support today's material on the agenda, so all the draft laws on confirming the agreement and the contracts we're talking about today. With pleasure because it is about solutions that are undeniably good and useful for the Republic of Serbia. So uncontestedly clear and good and useful that today I expect only affirmative tones, only words of support. So, no other tone to a clear, unanimous expression of satisfaction, not only in terms of the economic solutions that we get from this, but in terms of other benefits that arise primarily from establishing good relations between countries. So, only positive impressions of me come to mind, because simple matter is like that and in that sense it was a pleasure to listen to the different exhibitions that went in this direction and that were formed in this way. On the other hand, unfortunately, I have to say, I can't have an understanding of the absence of understanding, of the sensitivity of the subject, and of the whole tone that needs to be overcome today, which unfortunately was initiated by members of a few minorities, but only by their own merit and being in opposition today, which is the least important today. Simply, matter is like that, and matter includes a proposal to honour the Treaty on Loans to the Government of Serbia by the Government of Emirat Abu Dhabi in the amount of $1 billion in uncontested good terms, conditions that mean payment after 10 years, with a one-year interest of 2%, which, when told by the profession, I am talking about an economic profession, an extraordinary good solution because today market conditions are such that you can't go better than an orientation 5% interest per year. There's no room for us to feel anything but pleasure that we've achieved such a solution. If you calculate 3% from a whole billion US dollars and a 10-year period, it's very simple to come up with the 300 million-dollar figures that are literally left in our hands, at our disposal, for this period. So this is the kind of interest that is very simple to describe the qualitative essence of such a loan. We've had opportunities today to hear in extraordinary statements that this is the level of interest that each other is helping to see for themselves. We don't have to go looking for good examples that far. Our citizens know for themselves that when it comes to loans that are primarily solid in their nature, for example loans concerning the opportunity for a citizen to settle some of his housing issues in an organised system that regulates the state. It's about interest in this order of size. So this order of interest size just gives the message that whoever was the lender has absolutely no interest in making anything. He's giving a loan because he wants to meet someone. This is a very important conclusion and he is talking about the level of friendship and co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates, which we also had the opportunity to hear true, good data that primarily depict their growing economy, their ability, accelerated development, "ji-di-pi perketipal" which is indeed at cosmic heights compared to ours. These are great reasons to cultivate friendship, but these reasons can't and are not just economic. They're primarily human. When someone treats you as is done by the United Arab Emirates against the Republic of Serbia, you recognize an honest friendship and it is something we are obliged to appreciate. Today I expect not only a realistic approach to the fiscal, economic part of this problem, but also the expressions of appreciation and friendship thanks. I also use the same arguments when it comes to the proposed loan from the Abu Dhabi Development Fund, which is dedicated to 97 million US dollars for our agriculture. Again, this order is the size of the interest – 2.5 years, starting in five years, the conditions of payment such that only 20 years we start paying off. So it is quite clear, economically great solution for the Republic of Serbia and it is quite clear – a gesture of friendship again. When it comes to the third document that is in front of us today, it is about the proposal for a law on confirming Apek loans for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a total of 150m euros, with more than fair interest, amounting to an effective 3% to 4%, which is directed to small and medium-sized enterprises, therefore, part of our economy that needs to be developed and which will contribute not only to increasing the investment system, the atmosphere in society, but also to the overall economic atmosphere, which is essential. Vitally important and one of the most important tasks that all Serbia today has ahead of it – establishing a good, economic atmosphere, such as our most important task of establishing good co-operation, friendship and maximum, as far as possible, good conditions to co-operate with all the countries of the world, because this is something that will really put us in place on the world stage that we long considered worthy of. Thank you very much. And not only am I calling for all of us to support these solutions, I really, honestly, deeply expect it. How far away from the logic that there is any citizen of Serbia who will not be able to support these solutions, I am so far from the logic of finding someone like that here in the day we vote. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2202	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Let the messenger of the people be prepared, Katarina Šushnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2203	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, I have listened carefully to this debate today and is rightly the head of the SNS parliamentary group Zoran Babic when he says there is a "stelt" party in this parliament, which best paints these benches in front of us, where we cannot see any DS MPs, but we cannot see any NDS MPs, which also confirms that there is no difference between the two parties. I now ask the question – who are the citizens of the Republic of Serbia paying and whether they were also working and were in their jobs and when they were in the executive apparatus of this country, because given the consequences and the analysis of what we all found, no wonder why we are here, with so many debts and with a ruined Serbian economy. In fact, today we have a debate on this contract with Etyhad, and that is proof that the Republic of Serbia wants to treat our finances responsibly. We've been listening here to the arguments of the opposition's representatives, which we can't even see right now, please the cameras show, that these are good measures, but that they've had much better. I would just remind them at which interest rates they sold our country's Eurobonds, if they were interest rates of 7.5%, on completely unfavourable terms, that they had grace periods of two, three years, on several occasions they didn't have them, but that the money they took from the loan was used in one wrong way, which is filling their own pockets. We also know in the City of Belgrade what investments we have had, so we have thrown 10m euros for underground containers, 20m euros we have thrown aside the price of buying foreign buses, not domestic ones, 80m euros for trams, and today we do not have them on the streets of Belgrade, because it consists of public procurement of threem euros for their maintenance, and the Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade cannot pay for it. So we also had sales, i.e. buying an Inex building so someone could garden in the offices, because they are doing a great job for the Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade. That practice is over. We are aware that in one economic system, in the global economy, all states that have problems with the budget and fiscal consolidation must withdraw certain tranches of credit so that the state does not come into bankruptcy. However, if you are already taking loans, it is necessary to do so under the most favourable conditions. Thanks to the Prime Minister of our government, for the simple reason that he wants a dialogue with the whole world and is extrovert to the whole world in terms of relationships, he has managed to act as a friendly relationship with this loan that is actually a gift. The opposition can say whatever they want, but 2% interest, even if we misbehave, how DS acted, so that we can get into a situation where someone collects our pens or squeezes interest, with a total of 3% of the interest, we will continue to be more favourable in terms of withdrawing credit than it was a democratic government, which was taking expensive loans, not thinking at all how Serbian citizens would repay it. Most importantly, I said they were used in a completely wrong way, because they've always handled personal interests. It's really tragic when today what I'm saying in this House isn't even anyone to defend it. It is also important to point out that, as far as agriculture is concerned, we have heard great accusations that there are no projects. However, when we raise loans to infrastructure, we not only raise them for municipalities where SNS representatives are. I didn't see the initiative, I didn't see those big projects that the Provincial Government proposed or local self-government where DS is in power, because they don't really have any idea. They had an idea of how to destroy a bank called the Vojvodine Development Bank, but when it is necessary to offer a solution to turn money, return it to banks that are their own, and keep the extra profits, or something that you have created to further develop our country, of course, are lagging behind. As representatives of the majority, we also want to talk to the DS about projects that are good for Serbia and our agriculture, but usually this dialogue is only one-way, where we offer our hand and we want solutions, and there are no solutions on the other. Gentlemen, what's important to stress is that Serbia really wants to build as good a relationship with the United Arab Emirates as possible. I hope that in the coming years, if it is necessary to withdraw loans for other segments of our infrastructure, that it will be loans such as this, and I hope that DS will not always ask for something bad in that, because actually those votes that have been made up are proof that they have overpaid this country five times, from public procurement, from taking credit and therefore they have received five times less votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2204	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Katarina Šushnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2205	Dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, from a set of laws on the subject of today's debate, I would firstly single out the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund for the Development of Abu Dhabi for the financing of the development of the irrigation system. What is the significance of this law tells us and defeating the data that we could hear from my colleagues who had previously reported the word, so I won't look back much on that data. In the world, the trend in the development of the irrigation system began to develop in the middle of the last century, which is unfortunately not the case with our country. We have come to the conclusion that climate conditions also affect the development of agriculture. Unfortunately, I will look back on not so long ago in 2012, when we were struck by terrible droughts and this spring and it is not the first time something like this has happened in our country. The long-term issue of irrigation in agriculture has been left behind. Another very important item of this law, which I would most support, is the intention of investing this law in this area after domestic businesses and companies, which means opening new jobs, and this was the main message of the Serbian Progressive Party that many suspected, but I am glad to prove once again that they were wrong. This is one of the reasons why I will support this law in the voting day, because every investment in agriculture is an investment in the future and it cannot be invaluable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2206	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2207	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, are before us two laws on the confirmation of loans with the UAE and this Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the UAE as a lender and the Republic of Serbia as a borrower, amounting to $1 billion and the Law on the Confirmation of Loans between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Development Fund Abu Dhabi for the financing of the First Phase of the Watering System. As regards the Law on Confirmation of Loans with the UAE, on 29 and 30 January 2014, the Finance Ministry delegation, led by Minister Krstic, participated in the negotiations establishing the starting basis, i.e. the legal framework for the implementation of this arrangement and subsequently concluded the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the UAE, signed in Abu Dhabi on 17 February 2013. These negotiations define the terms of a loan contract that is significantly more favourable than the conditions currently offered on the financial market. What are your more favourable terms? The availability of money, above all, because this loan contract provides that the money is already available within six months of the date of conclusion of the loan agreement. After that, the repayment period, since the repayment period of the loan in question is in full within 10 years from the withdrawal date, where the principal is not actually returning until the end of this period. Then there is a fixed interest rate, a period and a method of paying interest. This advantage is reflected in the fact that the fixed interest rate is 2% on an annual basis, so it cannot be changed and cannot be affected by developments in the international banking market. Also, a significant advantage is in the interest pay period, since it is paid only after six months from the withdrawal date. When we look at the positive side of this loan and we know that loans with 5% interest are currently being taken on the financial market, so double the interest, and that we had a situation where, four, five years ago, loans with interest of 7.5% were being taken, and also, if we know that this loan will save about 300 million euros in 10 years, we can say that the loan in question is a cheap and favourable source of funding. Also, what may be most important is the objective of this loan, which is to reduce the budget deficit, i.e. people's said, of filling budget gaps and refinance bad loans, which were taken four or five years ago. The rest of the money would be used to establish an economic policy that will help us overcome the social impact of the crisis and give momentum to foreign and domestic investors through investment and promotion of production. As for the Law on the Confirmation of Loans between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund for Development Abu Dhabi for the Financing of the First Phase of the Irrigation System, this law is the subject of a $97m loan for the realisation of the First Phase of the Irrigation System in the Republic of Serbia. Why do we need to improve the irrigation system? Because some 165,000 hectares of agricultural land are currently irrigated in Serbia, i.e. only 10% of agricultural areas suitable for the application of this agrotechnical measure. Also, climate and meteorological studies show that over the past 20 years, the amount of rainfall on the territory of the Republic of Serbia has dropped significantly and the number of days of dry season has increased, resulting in a reduction in the amount and quality of the yield, which has a negative effect on the country's total agriculture. The funds from this loan will increase the surface area of irrigated agricultural land, which will allow for an increase in yields, ensure quality and stability of yields and according to research, the yields in warfare will increase by 30%, in fruit production by 40%, and in vegetables by up to 50%. Also, irrigation of agricultural areas has effects on other areas of agriculture, for example. in cattle farming by improving irrigation, farmers could make cheaper nutrient production and thus stop Serbia's current decline in nutrient production. As for the loan itself, it is also favourable, given that the interest rate is fixed by 2.5%, that the grace period is five years, that the repayment period is as long as 20 years and that the funds are available until 2017. This is how more favourable loans are the fruit of the government's valuable work, headed by our Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, to establish good relations with the UAE, which I think is an extremely good move, since the UAE is one of the richest countries in the world, which have great funds available for investment. I hope this good practice continues for the benefit of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2208	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2209	Thank you. I have to admit, dear colleague Jovicic mentioned earlier that we had a stealth party, from this one at least two MPs, and from this other one, the police seem to have joined the DS, since only the workers of the Assembly's security are in their benches, and that is the best indicator of how much someone is interested in the state. These are very important laws. Otherwise, Mr. Minister, I personally don't like the word credit at all and I creep out when I hear it, whether it takes a physical person, whether it takes a legal person, whether it takes a state. I've never taken a loan in my life myself, and I'll make sure that practice continues, but never say anything. The reason is that our banks here, to a large extent, had extremely unfavourable conditions when people were taking loans. That was pure greening. What's going on here today, what we're doing, is a gift, an essential gift that we get from Abu Dhabi, or the UAE. I'm just going to read to people how much these reliefs go. For example, for this irrigation credit, where it is said, the failure to exercise any right or authority that the Contracting Party has under any provision of this contract does not prevent that Contracting Party from exercising that right or authority at any time in the future and cannot be interpreted as giving up that right or authority. Furthermore, the fact that one party has tolerated the failure to comply with the obligation of the other Contracting Party does not prevent the first Contracting Party from taking any action subsequently, which is available to it in accordance with this contract with respect to such enforcement of the obligations. Practically, even if it happens that we may sometimes not be able to withdraw a particular tranche or that we won't have any consequences, we won't have to pay for a penalty like we used to have to do, when we're in debt and beyond, and when we really couldn't do it. What only disappoints me in this whole story is the fact that we have only 14 locations currently scheduled for irrigation projects, because someone has unfortunately left us no irrigation projects and we are simply not able to achieve this present at this time, which is literally given to us. I hope that, since the contract itself provides that if new projects come into play, that loan will be completed and realised. So this is a loan, i.e. a gift essentially achieved on one mutual trust. It's a good thing we've made these relationships with each other with a country that invests in the whole world for whose investments are almost fighting in the world. It's the only place that's been unfavourable. Remember what happened to Al Dahra, and it's really sad, because if that consortium had come to this market, he would have made one big competition here. Unfortunately, various tycoon lobbies have disabled, in some ways, Al Dahru, through certain former regime officials, especially who currently ruled in Vojvodina. To them, it seems that Saric was a good investor, who bought the combinations at the time, but did not seem to be good for them, Al Dahra. Why am I saying this? Because those eight failed combinations Al Dahra wanted to buy, he bought Saric before, so he seemed to be a very good investor, but Al Dahra was not a good investor. Here, obviously someone didn't want to compete because it would put certain interests at risk, because it would raise the level of our agricultural production, but well, it's time to move on with the talks. I hope some of those consortiums come here. If anyone can invest all over the world, it doesn't bother one of the Great Britain to be bought by these Arab consortiums, so you have the champion of Great Britain Manchester City, who holds one of Mr. Vukic's personal friends, it's about representatives of the United Arab Emirates state. I don't see why it bothers anyone here that people like that show up on our market, unless they're of limited interest. In any case, this is really worth supporting, because, I repeat, it's pointless to even use the word – credit, it's a pure gift, in 10 years you're returning the 2% interest, where you have complete trust with each other, and where if you don't do anything and you don't pay any damage, as you had before. As far as this third contract is concerned, Apeks is related to this loan from the European Bank for Small and Medium Enterprises. There's just something I need to ask you. Here we are allowed to use, to choose a fixed or variable interest rate. I don't know what the fixed amount is, but I'm just wondering, if you can answer us how the state is going to behave here? It's a good thing someone took this kind of credit for small and medium-sized enterprises and that the state plans to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, because it takes as many people as possible to work, but for the sake of the public, just so we know what these conditions are, that is. What is the interest rate and which we choose. I can see that everything here depends on the tranche we're taking, but I'd like you as a minister to be a little specific. Anyway, this is worth supporting, I'm stressing again. I hope that with this, in some ways, we may slowly end some of our massive borrowing and that in the future we will start investing and that we have real income sources and that this country will move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2210	The word has Minister Lazar Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2211	Let me just briefly answer this question specifically about the fixed or variable interest rate. So, in the case of an "eve" loan for Apeks, when withdrawing each tranche, the Ministry of Finance sees what interest rates are on the interbank market, this eurobor that we talked about and then depending on it is taken or selected a fixed interest rate or variable. So far, it's been said that in the last few tranches we've taken a fixed interest rate of about 2.2% for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2212	The word of the messenger of the people is Svetislav Vukmirica; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Zharko the richinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2213	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament wish me to point out in this presentation the importance of the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Abu Dhabi Development Fund for the financing of the first-stage irrigation system. The credit law provides for the co-operation of our state and the Abu Dhabi Fund from agriculture, which will take place through investments, both in the development of agricultural production and in the irrigation of land, drainage systems, modernisation and supply of the necessary agricultural equipment. This will allow for stability of yields in warfare, vegetables and fruit, regardless of adverse climate impacts in the periods of large droughts and floods and ensure a significant increase in the volume of agricultural production and competitiveness of our products on the world market. In my presentation, I would look back at the end from which I came, or to the municipality of Kickindu, and point out the importance of this law to the same. The Canadian network in the municipality of Kikind was built in line with the project of a regional sub-system for the irrigation of the Kykind municipality, which was built by the Institute Jaroslav Černi back in 1991. Currently, a channel network of 1133km has been built on the territory of the municipality of Kikinda, representing 85% of the total length foreseen by the project itself, whose flow, due to disorderly maintenance, has been reduced by 50% from possible. On the other hand, the total area of agricultural land in the municipality of Kikinda is 78,337 hectares, where under the field falls 62,490 hectares, pastures make up 4,711 hectares and the rest are gardens, vineyards, orchards, meadows, meadows, reeds and swamps. The only area of the municipality of Kikind is fertile land, which represents an extraordinary production potential. However, the main obstacle and lack are the fact that the issue of irrigation and deforestation is not fully resolved. The solution to this problem will surely bring about a much better way of organising wartime, vegetable, plastic and fruit production. For all these types of production, a quality solution is needed to solve the watering problem, and then by selecting techniques, i.e. mobile and mobile watering equipment, raise the level of production to the highest possible degree. Realising this investment, 40% of the farmland in the Kikinda municipality will be under the irrigation system, thus no municipality in Serbia will be able to boast. This fact will certainly be the right signal for new investments and investors in the food industry, as it will be the momentum of the Viking economy and the municipalities themselves. At the same time, the Kykind municipality will contribute additionally by investing in money obtained from the lease of state agricultural land. According to the municipal register, 40% of the total amount of money received in the name of the lease is poured into the budget of the AP Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia by 30%. In co-operation with JP “Vojvodina Water”, a percentage investment, a dinar and a half towards a dinar in favour of the province, money will be invested in the revitalisation of existing channels, reconstruction of Polish roads, raising wind protection belts, equipment of the agricultural service and land analysis. Finally, I would point out a very important fact that the implementation of the project will involve domestic public water companies and companies in state-owned enterprises in the area of water economy that have the capacity to do business in these areas, which is indeed an additional quality in the realisation of this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2214	The People's Messenger Zarko Bogatinović has the word, and let the People's Messenger Goran Kovacevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2215	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I come from Leskovec, a town in southern Serbia and from my 50s, as a graduate farmer of agriculture, for 23 years I have been working on jobs that are directly or indirectly related to agricultural production. So, the problems and structure of agricultural production in the territory of the town of Leskovci is a famous thing, but it is also very similar in the municipalities of Jablanic County which I also represent: the municipalities of Medvedja, Lebana, Bojnik, Crna Trava and Vlasotince. I will try briefly to bring you closer to the structure and problems of agricultural production in the Jablanic district, primarily the town of Leskovec, and thus define the MPs why we all need to vote in favour of this law, which confirms the Loan Treaty in order to build a irrigation system. The area of Leskovci according to its geographical, topographic and pedological, hydrological and climate characteristics is listed in the order of places with exceptional advantages for the performance of highly profitable agricultural production. Of 102,498 hectares of total area in the territory of the city, 57,248 hectares and 55,85% is agricultural land. Orographic, hydrographic depravity of land enables diverse plant and livestock production. Agricultural production is carried out at 57,248 hectares of agricultural land, of which 49,000 hectares are processed. Of the total area of agricultural land, about 90% is in the individual sector. For more efficient use of the land, the obstacle is made up of depreciated possessions and parcels. To that end, about 7,000 hectares of farmland in the northern part of the area and in the Poreč region were co-mosed in the 1980s. However, the need for further land accumulation remains. Today on private property, the average size of the plot is about 0.17 hectares, which you will admit is very little. In order to achieve high productivity of plant production, it is necessary to accumulate parcels for a more efficient use of agrotechnical measures for a better contribution, namely the use of irrigation of agricultural land. The climate characteristics of the area correspond to the transition between the moderate continental and Mediterranean climate with the characteristic of the subhumic, and sometimes even the arid climate. This is particularly expressed for a period of 10 years, especially for the vegetation season of 2012. As a result, droughts that sometimes take on the character of elemental disasters appear increasingly. Due to an extremely dry period in the good part of the vegetation according to the Commission's report on damage assessment, Leskovac agricultural production has suffered damage, in cash equivalent to 1,823,185,700 dinars, I have been speaking since 2012. The greatest damage suffered by wartime crops of corn and multi-year plantations of livestock. A similar situation was recorded in 2000 and 2003. In order to overcome such situations, it is necessary to provide, during critical periods, additional additional additional amounts of water for the smooth development of plants and to increase the yield of agricultural cultures or at least maintain them at a satisfactory level. So far, climate characteristics have provided relatively high production, where irrigation has not been taken into account. In recent years, with more extreme rains and droughts, it has been considering activities to realise irrigation as an essential part of agrarian. During the past period in the territory of the town of Leskovci the irrigation that was organized was not represented. It was exclusively applied on the surfaces of former larger agricultural enterprises, such as ‘AD Navip plantation’ at 700 hectares and ‘DP Poreč-Vučje’ at about 800 hectares, which have recognised the importance of this measure for their own purposes invested in building a larger number of accumulations for the purpose of irrigating their fruit plantations. As water sources, wells are used on parcels, groundwater by installing pipes, or surface water from nearby riverbeds. So, the whole irrigation business has so far depended on the entrepreneurship of agricultural producers. Given that there has been a drastic change in climate conditions, agricultural production of Leskovci requires serious access to irrigation of agricultural areas. It is necessary to take advantage of favourable hydrological characteristics of the climate, economically and ecologically without disrupting the biological minimum of water, to direct the available amount of water, surface and underground to improve agriculture. This would ensure stable high yields of farmed cultures from this area, hence competition on the market. This would mean not counting initial investments, advertising business organisations to farmers and reducing additional investment in the structure and cost of production. Organized irrigation systems and distributions are extremely expensive and their economic justification is, as a rule, based on the manufacturer's interest. Small farmers have neither the knowledge nor the means to build such systems, so support for local self-government and state in these cases is necessary. Efficient irrigation systems provide affordable water, while water production technologies with irrigation enable income-attractive cultures and cost-effective agriculture to grow. The use of modern sustainable technologies with rational use of natural wealth is also expected to develop agriculture, and in particular the development of vegetable and fruit production, as well as the production of corn and livestock plants for which irrigation plays the most important role. Building infrastructure if agricultural producers show interest will enable rational use of natural resources in order to achieve more profitable agricultural production in the territory of the town of Leskovec. Finally, the implementation of a study on irrigation possibilities in the territory of the town of Leskovci, and thus the planned construction of an organised irrigation system in the town of Leskovec, would be of great importance in terms of the stabilisation of agricultural production in the dry seasons and avoidance of the situation such as the previous dry years. In addition, conditions would be created for further unitation of agriculture towards the market economy and high-profit cultures, and local self-government would create conditions for the management of the agricultural production plan on its territory and on the basis of sustainable use of agricultural land and water. With all these facts, these activities would contribute to the efforts of the RS, i.e. the Government and Prime Minister Vukic to improve agricultural production, particularly in terms of increasing the total surfaces irrigated through organisational systems. Finally, as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I would promote one thesis that, above all, the Ministry of Agriculture provides the necessary assistance in local self-government in terms of preparing and drawing up technical project documentation so that, in the second phase of this project, the town of Leskovac can also apply for certain funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2216	The People's Messenger Goran Kovacevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Zoran Zivkovic be prepared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2217	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, while yesterday the RS Assembly was in a position to discuss reform laws that have completely changed the labour market, we are now returning to Serbia's difficult reality. Today we are discussing three draft laws, one of which concerns problems that operate in one branch, the other in the area of banking, and one in the RS budget. Of the three draft laws today and very often we can hear that two are crucial for future growth and development of the RS economy. It's usually about the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Besides agriculture, which we are talking about today, the energy sector and the car industry. That's what the future of the RS economy should be. It's certainly hard when we have to finance the future from the loan. What's most important today and certainly is the key loan we're taking from the government of Abu Dhabi for a billion dollars. You are very clear that this loan will actually be spent on refinanced by the public debt of the Serbian state and covering the social deficit that exists in the RS budget. When it comes to budgets, it's usually about developmental, social. But also in economic theory, there is a division that says that the budget consists of three parts, of the part that we inherited from the previous generations using these resources, of the work that we ourselves create during our fiscal year and of the part that we take from the generations that come after us. This government and this generation are in a relatively difficult situation. We have not had that happiness as some other governments, congregations, generations inherit resources that are unlimited. Very often we can hear criticisms at the expense of the younger generation and forget that these younger generations suffer the problem in all possible resources. This problem is due to the functioning of generations before us and very often we can hear from different political parties that in one period, in the 1990s, twenty-thousands, there was a better economic order, a better economic situation, better economic measures brought by other governments and other ministers. My question is simple -- if that's how it was, why are we, as a state today, in these macroeconomic parameters? Why is our unemployment rate so high? Why is the social gross product per capita so small? Some earlier governments, some earlier generations did not invest, but were borrowing generations, i.e. our generation and those resources were channeled into personal consumption. Not just your own personal consumption, but ours and these generations. They used our personal consumption in their own personal consumption. To whom does it matter today, in fact, it might be for a political story, and I do not dispute that in 2008, Serbia had a 28% social gross product debt rate? We can use whatever different statistical parameters you want today, but that won't solve our problems. We're as a state today, and we have to deal with it today, on the verge of over-indebtedness. Is 63, up and down one percent, however you take, in terms of debt to the social gross product, the first parameter, according to the social gross product to public debt, is in relation to the debt to total exports, Serbia is about a few years ahead of serious economic problems that will end in the first phase with the Greek script, in the second version of the Argentine clean model. Of course, when we take credit, we burden generations who come after us and, of course, it's not good, but it's fair to admit that this generation, this government, is not capable of maintaining this level of obligations that we have and that we need all of our financial obligations, which we're not guilty of, to extend for the future period of time. What's positive, what we all agree on is an interest rate of 2%. If today the eurobor is 6 months 0.69%, it is clear how small is the interest rate that will allow at least in the process of refinanceing the credit to reduce one part of the deficit. The second part of the loan will go to settle the deficits of the Republic of Serbia's budget. What is undeniable is the fact that governments, the last two, have not taken any action, have made no decision, and have deepened the fiscal deficit of the Republic of Serbia. This government is trying to make all the wrong decisions that have been made and that we hold back so as not to lead to social problems, and that is why those decisions previously made generate fiscal deficits and are the essence of fiscal deficit problems, which we all know. As we inherited problems in the area of fiscal functioning of the state, so we inherited problems in the area of agriculture. I wouldn't argue with the fact that the watering system in Serbia is one of the worst in Europe. It's a tragic fact that in central Serbia, we only have 5,000 acres of water, that the level of watering is about 1% of the total territory, and whenever you go to your neighbors in Shumadi and you ask them what they need to do to work better, they tell you three things -- we need safe plasma, we need water in every field, and what's important, we need the state to mix up as much as possible, because we know we're producing. We don't need to be carried by the huge amount of problems we've had with the floods in the last few days. In the last 15 years, 10 key, historical most dry periods have been in the last 10 years. This certainly says that this loan serves its purpose and will lead to an increase and quality of agricultural production. The last decision we vote on is a practically monetary policy ripped out of the part that guarantee is NBS, which we say we need to develop small and medium-sized enterprises. For too long, we have been hearing for too long that small and medium-sized enterprises are a developmental opportunity for the Serbian state. These small and medium-sized enterprises, of course, are a developmental opportunity, but they are also enterprises that have their own lifetime. Every small company in Serbia today is in trouble and is in a situation where it is. If you're dealing with a bit of an economic profession, then you know that a small company is in trouble because it's small. I can talk today about a dozen reasons that are essential to a small company that puts it in danger, but it's certainly important to point out three, four key parameters that make this company stronger. I'd like to remind you of the theory of breaking up the system of a small-known French economist who says that a small company is actually there to break up the big system, to become large and when it becomes big, a new small company will emerge that will tear it apart. What is forgotten is that small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbones of the market economy and market economy keepers in every developed economy. It is the primary issue of small and medium-sized enterprises and therefore the government of the Republic of Serbia is this measure it brings today, monetaryally, and the measures it adopted yesterday, fiscally, and all that it will do in the future should develop the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises in order for these small and medium-sized enterprises to be the backbones of growth and development of the Serbian economy. Despite the fact that it is never good to borrow, in the conditions in which Serbia is located, with the credit conditions in which we are located, these are certainly the most favourable solutions that remain at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2218	Thank you. The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2219	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that these are favourable loans and there is no doubt about it. Any demand for a 2% interest rate flaw, a 3% tightening interest, and everything else I think would be the wrong policy for anyone sitting in this House. Of course, it's not even a gift, as we've heard here several times, because the gift's gone, this is a loan agreement. So it's clearly a loan. There were also more favourable loans in Serbia's recent history. For example, the Serbian government received a favourable loan, namely PTT Serbia for the purchase of 29% of the Italian piece of Telecom there in 2003, but these are excellent conditions and there is no story there. The question is, why didn't we take three billion dollars, as announced by the Prime Minister and by the words of some other people who announced it, because if it's so good, it should be used in the best possible way? My question is Minister, and for what purpose is this loan going on? From what I understand, it's been said to go to fill out the budget deficit and to repay the old loans that are more unfavourable than this. I'd like to see what a percentage relationship is, and I think it would be very good if most of this loan was actually going to return those expensive loans that were taken in the last 10 years on behalf of Serbia. As far as the irrigation loan is concerned, we agree that there are also favourable conditions, that these are loans for a purpose that is very much needed for Serbia, but of course such credit would be meaningful and doubtless important to stick to the facts. This means that if it says on the 40th page that the project covers the development of 13 agricultural sites, ministers, mostly in Vojvodina, with a total area of 24,000 hectares, then it is impossible and should not happen on page 42, so here to repeat it – 13 agricultural sites mainly in Vojvodina, 24,000 hectares, that on page 42 it writes 11 agricultural sites in Vojvodina and three in central Serbia, means 14, not 13, and writes – 31,000 hectares, not 24,000 hectares. What is this mystic fourteenth location, and what is the 7,000 hectares that appear on two sides from page 40 to page 42? Generally, lending old debts under more favourable conditions is something the New Party will always support. Of course, the Nova Party will always support more favourable loans for infrastructure projects that are important for Serbia, which are not available in Serbia only if we have clear and accurate data on which loans are, whose credits, under which conditions and for what purposes. Generally, with all due respect for personal friendships, with all due respect for all human relations, I think it's one of the wrong parts of the story, especially some fellow MPs, that it's the result of excellent relationships, excellent friendship. To remind you of something that's a fact, I'm not transferring it and I'm not going to say this in a frenzy, but these Emirates have recognised Kosovo among the first. They have very good relations with the government in Pristina, as well as good relations with the president of the Serbian government, so we're not making any Disneyland or Hollywood out of these relationships, but to say that this is one reality, that both sides have an interest and that it's good that this interest rises to a level that we can get such a favourable loan. So, with the answers to these questions I have asked, the New Party MPs will give support to these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2220	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marijan Risticevic, and let it be prepared, as the last registered speaker, Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2221	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, respected ministers, fortunately and unfortunately for the villagers of the city, this loan and this money will not go into the development of viticulture, and in this regard I must show my satisfaction and most likely that the previous criticism was about hidden and related to the inability to supply the city's peasants with funds that can continue to develop their vineyards for three years. As far as this loan is concerned, he's become a necessity, but now we should all see why we're in charge? Why are the most profitable factories sold for nothing, like cigarettes factories? They were sold somewhere even, it seems to me, during the "Sablje" or something immediately after "Sablje" in haste, at very low prices, so let's say the "Ronhill" factory in Nis was sold for three times the value of the "Ronhill" factory in Rovinj. So, the whole social capital was sold into depravity, but that wasn't enough. The diaspora sent four billion every year, but that wasn't enough either. We had donor support after 2000, but that wasn't enough either. So when we couldn't make as much money as the government could spend at that time, then we spent a donation, we spent almost all of our social capital, but that wasn't enough either, it wasn't enough that the diaspora was sending us money, but we had to do business at unfavourable interest rates at that time. So instead of living off what we earned, we started living off the man in charge. Our problem is not even the height of the debt we found in 2012, our problem is the structure of the debt, the amount of interest and our main problem was that for that money there was no export to repay the debt. So no economy was created, but even on the contrary, it was sold out. Most of these businesses and factories that could still work were cut off for old iron and sold, workers remained on the street, and transition masters are with their friends, politicians, tycoons, etc. They filled their pockets, while the citizens, or workers, stayed on the street. The debts that were made at the time were about to fill the deficits and cover all the robberies that were happening at the time. Fortunately, this loan thing isn't the case, but I take it primarily as a necessity given the state we've found. On the subject of irrigation, I'd tie him to the drain. So water doesn't have to be just damage and great damage like today. It came first because the former government didn't realize that water could also be useful, that water flowed past you and didn't start flowing through you, while you tamed water flows, not them, that in such situations water could be gold, otherwise it could cause great damage, which has happened these days. If only part of the former debt had been used to bring irrigation and draining into one function, that when we have excess water running by us, to preserve it and use it, that at a time when water doesn't have enough water, a large number of hectares, that water would be real wealth, gold, and would not bring harm, but would be beneficial. Water is a good servant, as is fire, but a bad master, even more dangerous than fire, for fire can't be quenched, and with water you put out fire. If there were any reason we would have had today, the accumulation is the cause of all our plums, that at any time when the excess water appears and the floods are threatened, we would have filled those accumulations, preserved the water, and in the dry seasons were irrigated. The channel system would be so developed that during the winter periods, during rainy periods it could be used for deforestation, and in the dry periods the same channels have another function, i.e. to serve irrigation, that in such a way we can make money out of a large number of rivers, plums, streams, Danube and Sava, Morava, which flows through our country, and not lose money. Those brains were not and obviously it was not an accident, as no missing engineering, pontony, such as missing pontoon bridges, boats, equipment, etc. So nothing happened in this country by accident and on this irrigation and draining issue, you can be sure when you look at the Water Act. It is almost incredible that according to the system of defence against floods and major things, the arrangements of major water streams and spills have been developed by law by a single organisation "Serbia" to three enterprises: "Serbia", "The Vojvodina" and "Belgrade". It's also amazing that we had three inspectors on this most important issue. We had an inspector in the "Vojvodnavods", "Srbijavods" and "Belgrades". On the subject of Obrenovac, this would mean that, if there is some responsibility, both the "Vojvod" and "Belgrade" and "Serbijavod" are responsible, because for the water streams that were supposed to have been responsible for the offices were three, not one company. So it's almost impossible to make such a law by accident and I claim that someone who did it was either not qualified enough or had an evil intention. I would like this law, this task, to finally be arranged by our water streams, in accordance with everything else we have to arrange. There's no state in this country long ago. In this country, we have to start making a country. The state is the most expensive product that takes time to make, given the desolation of the country we found. And so, in this sense, I hope that this money will be used for the right purposes, especially the one regarding irrigation. For me as a farmer, that's very small. I'd like more money to be invested in the water industry, in irrigation, and, of course, draining. I would like the funds that farmers detached for disposal to come to their users in the future, not that, according to the 2010 law, they will be held in a completely different position, not to be passed on in good time to those to whom this money is intended. Then we wonder why something happened to us. When something like this happens, responsibility is usually sought from the current government. I'm afraid that this problem of our country's devastation, which has been going on since 2000, has also affected our streams of rivers, our water business, the irrigation, the deforestation and the tragedy of incredible proportions, which could most likely have been smaller, that those who ruled from 2000 to 2012 the funds they received, let's say from the World Bank 50 million euros in 2007, and in 2010, another 30 million euros, that this money was invested in deforestation and irrigation would now be far better, the water would not do us any harm, but would be of use to us, we could use it. I believe that whoever makes one mistake and doesn't make another mistake, and we mustn't make our mistakes, we must learn from the mistakes of our predecessors. Unfortunately, our predecessors are unaware of their responsibilities. Today we only hear criticism from those who have ruined everything that could have been ruined in this country. Every chance and perspective of people coming out of this crisis has been ruined, so we can get hold of anything we find. Especially what hurts is a situation in our economy that doesn't deliver enough money to serve the debts we found. So I would like this loan, especially the one that concerns water and agriculture to benefit the population, to benefit from the employment of the population, to be of benefit to farmers not to be harmed, as it has been so far. In the end, I'm not a supporter of over-indebted debt. Debt is not a good friend, but given the situation found on huge loans, let's just say that the economy owed 22 billion, the public debt was 16 billion in 2012, the deficit was about two billion, a billion, and something was interest for one year, a billion and something for another year, so on those 16 billion there were four billion commitments, and there was this 20, 21 billion debt, aside from this debt, had to cover the financial commitments that had been made. I think that in 2013 and 2014, our commitment to interest and debt is somewhere close to 10 billion euros in terms of state alone is so much interest and capital to be paid off. Credits were short-term with high interest rates and should certainly be replaced. If we were that twenty billion as much as we found public debt, if it were just missed through agriculture and the processing industry, if we'd lost half today, we'd owe ten billion less than we owe right now. With that debt, we have an incredible 22 billion-dollar economy. This is what I say to the viewers for, to know what is the situation and that those who are criticizing today who in two years have failed to correct what they have distorted in the last ten years. They're acting for me like they're acting guilty to Drina. And he blames Drina while she's running thinks she's right, and so does the former government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2222	The word has a folk MP, Master George Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2223	Dear Ministers, chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are facing today a joint single search of three draft laws on loans between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates and between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. At the very beginning, I will say that in the voting day, the JS parliamentary group will support all three draft laws. Although, at the very beginning, my colleague from the JS spoke in more detail about these laws, I will focus on the proposal for a loan law between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund for Development Abu Dhabi for the financing and development of the first phase irrigation system. At the very beginning, it should be said that the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, signed in Abu Dhabi on 17 February 2013, established a legal framework for the co-operation of the two countries in all areas of common interest for both countries. Article 3 of this Agreement provides for co-operation in the area of agriculture. The law itself provides for the budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 at the Fund for Development of Abu Dhabi and thus, you are ministers on 6 March 2014 and signed the loan agreement. When we speak, these are funds under much more favourable financial conditions than usual. You don't need to talk too much about whether it's a favourable loan, my colleagues have talked a lot about it, and I'm going to say, given the fact that in the previous period we were in debt at significantly higher interest rates. This loan is more, and both are more than favourable. The very fact of 2.5% for this loan and the value of the loan is slightly less than $100 million or 97 million US dollars, 8.2 billion dinars, or as one of our colleagues said regarding the currency of the United Arab Emirates 356 million 128 thousand dirhams. Here, he mentioned another of his colleagues, so he wouldn't be much of a nobody. The maturity period is 20 years, including a five-year start, while the repayment period is 15 years in the 30-year war. This credit arrangement should cover 31 000 hectares of fertile land at 11 agricultural sites in Vojvodina and three in central Serbia in order to bring at least half of Serbia and half of Vojvodina to some of the next credit arrangements. On the other hand, it should be said that Serbia and the United Arab Emirates have not used everything we have so far been able to use. There is room for promotion in all areas, and especially what we are talking about now agriculture, then energy, new technologies, construction, then pharmacies, tourism. Since we had, by 2012, to say more than modest co-operation and it was moving, it was 20m euros, and in 2013 it was less than 30m euros. What it all brings to this co-operation. It should be said that we are now talking about billions of euros in loans and investments. What on the other hand is offering to co-operate with the Emirates with Serbia. There, it should be realistic and say that for Emirate, this link with Serbia offers the entrance to a small door in the EU that Serbia wants to join as well as access to the formerly powerful military industry of the former Yugoslavia. Serbia plans to become a member in 2020, and therefore investment in Serbia gives Emirats a chance for direct access to the major Union market. Before costs certainly rise and a lot of regulations are introduced. The Emirates certainly have an interest in investing in Serbia now, because when investing in the EU, there are procedures and regulatory obstacles, while business with Serbia today is much, much easier. Speaking of the Emirates themselves, they've been around for a little over 40 years. In such a short time, they became the sixth most developed country in the world. They have as much as 170 nationalities, if that's what's important. This is really one piece of information. Their GDP in 2014 was $394 billion or GDP per capita of $49 000. That's really fascinating. They are also one of the world's largest exporters of gas, oil, fuel, while by volume imports are on the world's largest list of 20 importers. The growth of $132.5 billion in 2007 to even $341.36 billion in 2012 says that our businessmen can indeed find ways in many areas to co-operate with the Emirates. Indeed, the Abu Dhabi Development Fund should also be mentioned. Nobody said anything about that, I guess. The fund has existed since 1981 with the aim of funding development projects in developing countries, and credits donations and rankings on behalf of the government of Abu Dhabi. The total value of current loans, donations, investments over the past four decades by the government's Abu Dhabi Fund has reached $9.5 billion for 325 development projects and in 50 countries around the world. I won't be long after we've told you all about this. Let me just say in the end that in the Single Serbia Parliament Group's voting day, they will support all these bill proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-27-0.u2224	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their rights under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in points 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda. We will continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours at points 6, 7, 8, 9th and 10th of the common debate.
