ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3531	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, is an amendment which is practically in the list of all these measures that the Security and Information Agency has been applying under the new law, and has applied them before, we want to limit these measures to something that is practically restricted by the Constitution, which is not foreseen in this law, which is that certain measures can be applied practically in all areas, and we add in the amendment to exempt the apartment. The fact is that according to the Constitution - the apartment is excluded from the possibility of being used and that it is non-injurious. The fact is that there is a Code of Criminal Procedure emphasized that such measures are not applied in the apartment. But it's unclear why if something is in line with the Constitution we don't put into BIA law, considering that those people who work on these jobs in the BIA aren't people who are classical operatives, it's practically about technicians, people who install only certain assets, any means. Note, this is not only about intercepting communication, but also about listening secretly to conversations in certain rooms, and I think it should stand unambiguously that it can be done except in the apartment. I fully respect the argument, but I cannot accept that all technicians working in the BIA are obliged to know the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws of the Republic of Serbia. They are people who do their job and I don't think anything fundamental in this article is changing, but it is unambiguously determined that these things are forbidden to work in an apartment and I think it would make it easier for people who work on these jobs and who wouldn't have a dilemma about whether they applied such measures, or whether they would install such measures in private apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3532	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3533	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, dear ministers, I would be very happy to support this amendment that says – covert surveillance and recording of communication in public places and places where access is restricted or in rooms except in the apartment. This – except in the apartment, it suits me very well. The reason for the rejection of the amendment states that the Constitution already guarantees it, and the law cannot be older than the Constitution. That's one of the reasons why I'd hesitate to accept this amendment. But I would still accept it if it stood at the end of that sentence except in the dwelling and the pastures. If that were the case, I'm sure you'd support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3534	You finished short today? Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3535	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a stay in what's written in the explanation, I need to refer to the explanation given by the motionary, in order to make it absolutely clear to the technical persons who work in the BIA what they can and cannot do. This would make sense if the technical persons in the BIA were to act on an oral order, and since it is a special measure, especially prescribed by law, such measures are required by written means and such a measure is not imposed by another technical person, but by a professional, authorised official, or official person who is obliged to comply with the law. In case such a person issued a warrant and someone acted on that order, one who acted on that order would not be responsible for it. The technical person was not required to know, but he who issues such a warrant and how he is obliged to know and how he is obliged to respect the inviolability of the apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3536	Thank you. You're authorized, you can take 15 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3537	It's short notice. First of all, anything that's funny isn't funny and trying to be funny unfortunately doesn't work most often. You're being ridiculous, and that's a fact. I don't see anything really illogical in my mind, but I don't see a logic that would get thrown out. Now you're showing in fact that you're demonstrating force in parliament, because the only or two amendments, if I'm not mistaken, that you accept are the amendment authorities, that you're correcting yourself and this kind of thing that is uniform, and I can say bizarre, because nothing essentially changes. Even, you can show that you accept the amendment of the opposition which, as you say, already exists in the Code of Criminal Procedure and exists in the Constitution. Why wouldn't that be accepted? It's just a reason to show you have a desire to demonstrate in some way force. You're right and that, you have most of it here, it's not controversial, but I'm asking you to be a little more flexible and to have in mind that what you're saying happened. It happened. When did someone from the BIA, or before that from the RDB, respond because the measures were applied in the apartment? Do you have any knowledge that anyone has ever been responsible for this? I'm telling you, I don't remember, and I've been following that area for about 14 or 15 years, and there's no way of knowing someone was answering in court because something was done in the apartment, and I'm telling you it was done in apartments. We can open that topic in some other forums, but no one has ever answered. So why wouldn't you accept that? I am sorry that we have a conflict of opinion on the first amendment today, but I think it is essential and in your interest that it is formally put and, after all, that the people who work in that service be clear, unequivocally what it is that it can't and what it is, because we have changed this law today, or we are changing it because it wasn't unequivocal in those particular measures, even though it was known what the measures are and what measures are applied, and they are also in other laws of security that apply other security authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3538	Thank you. The word is Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3539	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot agree with what's been said to demonstrate force here. It's not any demonstration of force, it's a demonstration of the nomotechnical knowledge of the people in charge of writing this law. The overcrowding of the legal provisions of something already defined by more legal acts is absolutely not appropriate and is characteristic of systems in which the level of legal and nomotechnical knowledge is not at an enviable level. There is no demonstration of force here, especially to me at least because I was able to accept the amendments often. You said you only accepted the amendments. I must tell you, although this amendment is not specific, there were also parties in the amendments submitted by other colleagues and colleagues who support the government or do not support the government. There were parts of the amendments that were both good and acceptable, but, as you know, we can't accept a single amendment in part, and we can't refuse it. I just think this is about overloading the existing text. I appreciate your good intentions, but it would also be nice to say that in the report of the Protector of Citizens it is very clear that absolutely no measure of search of the apartment has been applied. What once happened in the security portfolio or in the BIA that such a measure was applied, I will remind you that in 2006, it was changed and that a new constitution was adopted that changed certain provisions precisely in this sense. (President: Ministers, two minutes. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3540	Thank you. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3541	President-in-Office, I believe that this amendment should indeed be rejected because, firstly, it would introduce a legal norm containing an excessive provision, since the non-violence of the apartment is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the accumulation of excessive legal norms that would contain excessive provisions is not in line with the EU's legal norm, which we really advocate. Now that I've taken the floor, in general when we talked about BIA for the last time, let me say two sentences, that one of the BIA's tasks is to take care of national security, and that requires a certain degree of secrecy in relation to the other systems in the state. This does not mean that its work, which is largely subject to different forms of control, must also be as transparent and public as possible. No, he doesn't have to do it as much as possible. In fact, it's two concepts-- public and secret. The secrecy is one of the main principles of the work of the Security Service, etc. I therefore propose that the amendment be rejected in order to bring this law into practice, i.e. to purify it from the extra provisions that would be introduced into legal norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3542	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3543	Thank you, Your Honor. Essentially, it is always taught in law school that the law must be precise and clear and understandable enough, without unnecessary accumulation of sentences or definitions that are certainly defined by some other, higher acts. We have the CAP here, in fact, the Code of Criminal Procedure, something that is what we are handling. It must be in accordance with the Constitution and there is a defined invulnerability of the apartment. There is no need to define such a thing by the BIA Act, unless someone comes from that premise that people who are managers of BIA are ignorant people and want to bring themselves into this situation that they might want to commit a crime. I believe that's where they work and how legally subdued people, I'm talking about executives. Of course, every agent doesn't have to be legally booted, but people who are in BIA's leading positions, no matter what their professions are, whether they're done with electrical engineering, machinery, doesn't matter, but basic things about the CAP have to know and I'm convinced that they should never do this kind of thing, so there's really no need for people to draw something that they certainly have to respect by just being defined in the terms of the CAP. I want to believe that's where people don't think to fuck the law. It may have been a practice, but I believe that there are really responsible people out there today, security people, who are in the right and best possible way dealing with protecting the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3544	The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my previous brief presentation, I didn't want to be humorous, nor to have anyone laugh at me because of the objection and any joke, if he saw it as a joke, he'd laugh at me. I don't even think that's funny. I mean, I belong to the farmers, and usually in the pastures we feed on cattle. My remark was about apartments because there are apartments built on pastures, for example, on the Vracar. It wasn't me, it was some former ministers, they built apartments...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3546	I'm asking you about the amendment and no replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3547	I'm talking about the amendment, please just wait. The amendment says - in the rooms, except in the apartment. I'm talking about apartments built in pastures, and that's why my remark was about that. So, I didn't want to do any humor, it's sad for me, and what kind of space is in that apartment, I think we need one of the two trucks of equipment to tap into such a big apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3548	Thank you. Ambassador, I think they laughed at me, not at you, and I won't let anyone laugh at you. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Security Control Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3549	This amendment, which I have submitted to Article 2, is precisely in order to specify and I think that when this amendment is rejected, it would represent unnecessary intervention in the text, I think, that the government meant intervention in its original text. It is good for me that, in the position of 2nd of this Article, the Protector of Citizens is obedient, since the formulation is essential for the purpose of the restriction to be satisfied in a democratic society. What is precisely on the opinion of the Citizens' Protector is implemented in such a draft law, and I think that if you have already explained that there is no need for such an amendment to be accepted because it represents unnecessary intervention, that it is consistent, in accordance with certain members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Then I think that you should have listened to at least what the draft and in your opinion and this bill was given to the Citizens' Protector, which refers to the ratified international conventions, and above all to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Very explicitly, the Citizens' Protector wrote it in his draft, and I think that such ratified conventions are part of a positive legal system, and they do not represent suffering, nor do you, in the explanation, state one unnecessary intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3550	The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Security Control Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3551	Here, too, in an explanation of why this amendment is not accepted, it is said that by accepting the proposed amendment, this position of this member would be made less precise and would create room for different interpretations. See, that's not true. When you determine that the court determines the application of special measures in its position of 1st you say - the court can determine the application of special measures. Then you can tell the Supreme Court immediately in that same attitude and I think it would then be more precise and more correct and from the point of view of the nomotechnics a more correct and precise legal norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3552	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Security Control Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4th of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Security Control Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3553	Thank you. As far as this article is concerned, it is actually an amendment to this Article 4, and it is Articles 15, 15a, 15b, 15v and 15g. In almost every one of the members I had to add a word to the point of precision. Some of these changes, by inserting a certain word, such as "excessive" are small technical corrections. Just so you know, we've got a situation and we've got an emergency. So part of that argument I can't accept. As far as Article 15b is concerned, I just figured out who's changing the director of the Agency in the event of justifiable prevention? What has particularly affected me in the rejection of this amendment is the part relating to Article 15v, which refers to the collected material relating to the criminal offence and to the perpetrator and that it can be used as evidence in criminal proceedings although it is collected without a reasoned proposal from the public prosecutor, and if the way it is collected is not contrary to the provisions governing the Criminal Code. The last thing that was done through this amendment is one so-called technical correction, which is that when you say – the data on the proposal, the decision-making and the application of special measures are classified data, then you have to specify that it is in accordance with some law. All the time you've been talking about classified information, when something's being kept secret, you keep avoiding the fact that you're relying on the confidentiality law, and I don't know why. I know that those regulations that need to be passed for its application in practice have not been made, but if you say they are in accordance with some law, I think it's more concrete to say in accordance with what exactly law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3554	The word has Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3555	Dear Presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, the SPO will support amendments to the BIA Act as well as amendments submitted by our colleague Batic. I am talking about Article 15g, i.e. the concept of "secret information" for concreteisation and change. In this regard, it is necessary to define what is the secret information of the new law on the confidentiality of data, since in 2009, a code on classified information was adopted which is bad and which was brought quickly only to obtain visa liberalisation. I would support the Minister of Justice's announcement on the adoption of a new BIA law and should we pass a new BIA law, a new law on confidentiality of information, should not leave out the adoption of a law on the availability of secret archives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3556	The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3557	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, the SPS parliamentary group will support this amendment by counterpart Olgica Batic, noting that this amendment gives a more precise definition of the norm that has been systematised in the bill, especially in relation to the jurisdiction of the council under discussion by the appeal, which is an extrajudicially larger court. However, here it seems to me that if we were to remain only on this amendment that will surely be supported and it would be good for you to accept it, yet this member and this norm will remain incomplete and incomplete because the jurisdiction of the extrajudicial council here cannot end unless it is more precisely defined. The question arises whether in the event that the Director of the Agency, therefore, the BIA is proposing and requesting approval for the follow-up measures which, as we discussed in principle, he ordered, and I did not agree with that formulation to be an order, whether in that case there is a right to appeal. What if the Supreme Court doesn't approve the follow-up measures? Is the situation in the law supposed to state that such a decision is not allowed to the Judge of the Great Court of Justice to appeal and that is one procedural solution. Another process solution. If an appeal is allowed, the appeal must be in the jurisdiction of the extrajudicial council. The question of deadlines for the appeal is now being asked. We discussed in principle that these deadlines should be very short. Personally, the SPS parliamentary group insisted through me that the deadline be linked to the application of the institute immediately and without delay, not 48 hours. So it seems to me...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3558	Time. You've exceeded the time of two minutes. What time do you use to record?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3559	The time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3560	So emphasize that we can record.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3561	Let me finish, very briefly. There are two options left here. One possibility is that, given that the resolution committee failed to resolve this issue more precisely, and it seems to me that, in the light of and commentary of the honourable MP Momir Stojanovic, we must bear in mind here and the mandatory principle of efficiency, so the question is whether if we fail to resolve this, we will tie the hands of the director of the agency, because we will not be able to use the right appeal and limit it only to this text of the law that has been proposed or, in due course, access to a comprehensive, consistent text of a completely new draft law on a security information agency where we will solve this issue. So I ask you to only consider one such approach, one such attitude exclusively in order to find the best system solution, which will satisfy both principles to the best extent. The principle of efficiency in the application of this law, especially when it comes to the authority of the director of the Agency, and on the other hand, the principle of constitutionality which is not necessarily to be applied here, bearing in mind that right now we are discussing because we agree the existing text with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3562	National MP Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Security Service Control Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3563	If you'll just give us a moment to get back to the beginning. So today, we are practically here to adopt amendments and amendments to the law because the Constitutional Court made an objection to the BIA Act, which was passed in 2002 and the objection was to the 13th essential and logical link between Articles 14 and 15. The change that we had previously treated in the first article is a change practically imposed by the Constitutional Court, and these two members who were created afterwards have practically changed the ability of the BIA to work, as the agency can practically conduct a parallel pre-criminal procedure, and the director and the agency are given the opportunity to carry out practically four days of measures, special measures, in relation to a group of persons or individuals. This amendment also says that if indirect measures are applied to the Agency or members of the Agency to find out that the person, group or organisation is using another means of communication, they will immediately inform the Director. The Director may give the order, or subsequent authorisation to extend the measure and to apply the measure, meaning a new means of communication or a place that has limited access or other premises. Then it is said that the Director has 48 hours of time to pass this information and ask for the court's approval, and the court makes a decision within 48 hours, practically four days can someone... Can I use my time or do I have to take this later?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3564	Yes, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3565	Thank you. Therefore, practically four days can be applied to the measure the court rejects. We find that inappropriate, because the Director can issue a warrant at the same time for the application of the measure and send an application for court approval, and that's one thing. The other thing is, I make it very clear that a member of the agency can come up with a finding that is wrong. Therefore, a member of the agency may find out that a person uses a certain room for certain actions that are not in accordance with the law, that he suggests that this room be sounded, and that at the same time there are people who do not really do these illegal jobs, that this process takes four days and that after four days, the Court says that it was not in accordance with the law and that this material, to be ordered, to be destroyed. What does that mean? It means that each of us, of Serbia's citizens, don't think about MPs, but I also think about MPs and officials, can be under the measures of BIA, random, random, which the court will later challenge, while at the same time this new law gives the opportunity to deliver this material to the prosecution and to be used in criminal proceedings. So this is something that is extremely dangerous, this is something that has never existed before, and I know you're going to tell me that as soon as BIA finds out that it's not about a person who, on the scale of that moment, ceases to monitor that communication, whatever it is, it may take four days for it to determine that this person is not in direct communication and does not have to be directly, but indirectly, and I think it's very bad. What we're looking for is that those persons who came into the situation to be under special measures, and who the court later says did not exist, get that information from the court, that they know that they were under measures for four days, and that they also have the opportunity to attend the destruction of that material. We believe that in this way we are protecting their human rights, protecting every citizen of Serbia, and I am not saying that in an announcement, or I am announcing, there is a desire for anyone in any way to abuse this law, because yesterday we talked about whether the principle of efficiency is above the principle of legality. Personally, I think we have a duty to make it possible for the BIA to be effective in accordance with the law. I think that we should adapt this law, not only for the work of the BIA but for the citizens of Serbia, who can come "under pressure from the work of the BIA", that is, under special measures. These special measures, I stress, which are now defined in the first article, unequivocally, are not just secret phone listening, but complete observation and phones and rooms and emails and inboxes in Facebook or Twitter. It's something that penetrates human rights into the personality of freedom. I believe that a man who has been saved, who has come under such influence, has the right to know that he was under such measures and that the state has an obligation, or should have the obligation to inform such a man about what happened. This is as said on the committee in accordance with the Constitution. I believe that this is one thing that protects human rights in Serbia, and I believe that this is the thing that should allow BIA to work effectively, then at the same time if it is wrong, to find out a mistake and that the person who came under these measures gets the knowledge that there was a mistake, rather than that person in another procedure being found in a court of law, because that material can also be used in criminal proceedings, regardless of whether it is not approved. If the BIA finds out through the measure that there is a certain criminal offence or knowledge, it can be used by the prosecutor. I find it problematic that the application of the measure in relation to the first-degree part, when a senior court's consent is obtained, i.e. the judge of a special court, which I speak for the public and when there is a possibility of appeal to such a decision, the question arises why is there no possibility of a complaint and such a decision? If the judge finds that there was no reason to observe anyone for four days, then the question is why the BIA then does not file an appeal and asks that a senior, or appeal court decide on the appeal, because if the judge refuses to do so, it means that there was a mistake. Mistake, finding out who? Only the judge, BIA, and Serbian citizens do not know whether there was a mistake or not, and especially those people against whom the mistake was somehow directed. I think this is something that is good for all Serbian citizens and I think it's good for the BIA itself and that in no way prevents BIA from doing its job, but it also brings these people who are in the BIA, into one situation to seriously consider whether there is a possibility of making a mistake or not, because in this way that is currently proposed by the government and if they make a mistake, there is no sanctions. Practically, for four days someone could be under observation and no one would be sanctioned afterwards. What does that mean? It means that each of us, with a free estimate of the members of the BIA, the operative, etc., who has come to some knowledge, can come under attack. Those measures end after four days. What they found, listened, could be used in court, which is not so bad, far from that, but it can be used for certain tabloids, to appear in the papers even though it's being destroyed afterwards, but why wouldn't someone know that just because of the work of the service someone leaked, and we'll agree, and that's what the president and prime minister also said, at the end of the day, that certain information had just been leaked from the top of the state, i.e. from those services that allow them to get that information. Then that man, who under the influence of that information, would have the opportunity to at least know how it got out and how it happened, because it's being run, I'm sure, as an official secret and destroys itself commissionly and should, or should remain a secret until the end of whatever it is and in whatever way it is collected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3566	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3567	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer to one part of the debate on this amendment very briefly and very clearly. One of my distinguished fellow MPs who supported the government spoke two days ago about not pretending to live in an era of "children of flowers" where everything works perfectly, but rather let us talk within the limits of real life. Real life says this - if you're looking for an extension of the measure, you have a predetermined measure. This predetermined measure is applied and applied for reasons of suspicion that someone has done or is doing something that is against the law. You have the Constitution guaranteed the right to be notified, of course, on your own request, in case the measure is applied or not. If you are going to inform everyone - you know, one measure is applied, and then we asked for an extension of that measure, and then we came, or the court found that the extension of that measure is not necessary, so you are jeopardizing the original investigation. So let's find some reasonable balance between what was in Serbia in the past I don't know how many decades, especially at the time of a completely different social policy arrangement, when the service worked in one way, until the service was absolutely liberalized. Then it's not BIA anymore. What's that, then? I deeply respect and appreciate your experience in the area of security and I know that you are a serious man and you understand this as well. On the other hand, and as a state official but also as a citizen of Serbia, I have confidence in that service and I will not go from what we are and how we tend – they do everything against the law, let's limit them as much as possible, do this or that. I mean, once again, this bill is incomparably more transparent than what it replaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3568	Thank you. (Dear Shutanovac, from the city: I answer the word.) The only thing you can do is waste time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3569	I think we're talking on two levels. First, it's not a matter of trust at all, whether you trust or not, believe me, as an MP, I've listened to several ministers and directors of the agencies who told us that we should trust each other, and then today you have court proceedings against the people who were members of those services that made them...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3570	Just don't be like a replica, but according to the amendment, in that sense you have time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3571	That's what I'm talking about. So you have a situation where serious crimes were committed precisely by members of the service, last time the prime minister. People were arrested for murder, arrested for the murder of Curuvia, also members of the service. So this isn't about whether or not we trust each other. We have confidence, but we simply need to prevent any abuse. It is true that an earlier measure has been approved against that person, but it is not just a matter of his phone. Now the service finds out that when he enters a hotel that he will be in that room and now the devices are mounted there, and he is not in that room and being someone else, and the service listens. Whether it registers his, the voice doesn't register, it can be, it doesn't have to be, and it can last and it can be established on the fourth day that it was unnecessary. So this is not a question of whether you visually or unambiguously determine whether it's a means, and it can be, let me say, and space, it uses that personality. So this is something small or much wider. In doing so, legislation in Europe knows or recognizes a situation in which a person under measures is informed and not informed by coming to the BIA to ask – excuse me, have I ever been under measures? It's a mess, then. Don't you think it's better for the BIA that exactly who were getting the information? Imagine that seven million people now order in the BIA, you know that with us this structure of "Ilya Cvorovića" exists for many years, imagine that now everyone is in charge of the BIA – good day, request, was I under measures? The whole service needs to deal with it, and we say - people, don't come, whoever it is, they'll get information, but then they'll come to find out what it is and then the amendment will sign that it will keep the official secret just as we are members of the Secret Service Control Committee. I'm talking about people who are safe, who have come into a situation to be under control, not because they're criminals or they're dealing with a job that threatens security in Serbia, I'm talking about ordinary people, and there's a lot of people who think that someone is listening to them every day. Which we wouldn't relieve and say -- people, if someone was listening to you officially, I'm talking about the case, not about the intention, if it's intention, it's justifiable for what it is, and if it's an accident, then you'll get that information and you have the opportunity to find out what's in that material and you're attending when matter is being destroyed and you're dispensing both the work of the BIA and you're dispensing Serbian citizens who think that every day someone listens to them, they think that one hundred thousand operatives keep their earphones on a daily basis and listen to all the phone conversations, because today when you buy a newspaper and there's whispering that someone doesn't hear anything. There's a lot of whispering in Serbia, I don't know if you've noticed, they're all in fear and whispers. Why don't we free these people and say, "People, no one has the right to do this, if it happens, you'll get the information, thank you very much. That is by the legislation that has been applied, I mean specifically in Croatia, the country that is in the EU, and that is the step out of what we are currently in. In the end, if we had just wanted to change the law in relation to the proposal, or the Constitutional Court's request, we would have changed only Article 13, we would have counted certain measures, thank you, and our party would have voted, I suppose, and other parties who voted for this law in 2002. Since we've lost our chance to prepare a new law in six months, and I said this old one's out of date, at the time it was modern, now it's out of date, so let's all take part in the change together. I just said you're showing strength by not accepting any amendments. You've told me that we're not going to spread the text with one word "in an apartment", that's about five or six letters in the same line, I don't know how much money is used on that press, it's so completely unnecessary, but now this is the thing that essentially affects the rights of those people whose state can at one point be repressed against them and they deserve that information from the state and they get it. I'm not talking about people who are being held against, people who are being watched legally, but people who come under that blow by accident based on the error of an operative who has come to the knowledge that can be true, it is certain that it will be true, but it can also be incorrect. If it's wrong, then the state at least treats these people the way they need to be treated.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3572	Thank you. You've wasted your time as an authorised representative. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3573	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, listening to some debates, I get the impression that someone acts and treats as if he's never been in power, that he criticises the law in which he didn't directly participate, but also that he is a party to whom he belongs and here he talks in such a way that there's some law is bad, we all admit it, and we all accept that criticism, but he wasn't bad when we were in power, he just wasn't bad when we had a full mandate to change him, and we haven't changed him, but now there's a time of silence and whisper and now let's present that and that kind of law that we "used in a good way" and now someone else is going to abuse him, so we're going to have a reasoned reason why some other amendments don't accept it, if we't bring it down like that way, you know, as if we don't increase the cost of two words are going to the party. I think we're all serious people here, and I keep to it, and everyone takes care of what he says and stands by his words. That's how I stand behind my words and what I said in the light of some previous amendment and what I'm saying about this amendment. When the reasons for applying some measure cease, the measure is automatically interrupted. That's what you yourself said in the opening statement about the amendment. I don't understand, and I don't understand what the problem is? We agreed that the law wasn't perfect. We agreed to change it. I ask the question why doesn't that change him for four years of his authority? If some members have ever abused their official status within the service... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3574	Minister, time. About every amendment for only two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3575	Just one sentence, please. If they were being abused, that's exactly what they're being tried for. It would've been bad if they'd abused that property so they wouldn't be tried. In doing so, they were members of another service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3576	Thank you. There's a lot of people down there. I'm asking you all to sign up again so I can give my word to the next one. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3577	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to explain, with all this Mr. Minister's honor, which I fully agree with, that in one more ground and clear way, why this amendment is not acceptable. Mr. Sutanovac, for example, is using special measures for your security services and getting the knowledge that you contact me and are looking for an extension of the measures. Within 48 hours, the Director of the Service shall request the competent court and 48 hours shall apply the measure. The court doesn't approve that measure, and you're now asking that the competent court... It is the Agency's duty that the person to whom an extended measure has been applied, which has not been approved by the Court, be informed of this and call me the Director of the Agency and say – you have been given the measure, please, for that and for that. I'm asking why? Because you're in a relationship with Mr. Dragan Sutanovac. That's how I discover the subject of interest in the service. That's what I'm holding back...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3578	We don't know who that is, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3579	The case works, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3580	You're talking to me, and I don't know Branko the Shutanovite.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3581	If I ask the Agency why an extended measure has been applied to me, they'll tell me - because you're in a relationship with Mr. Sutanovac. That means I'm already a citizen, no matter what I keep secret, I can figure it out and the service, that case is over. This solution is identical, which is offered in amendments and additions to the laws, solutions that are applied under the French Security Service Act. In the pre-2009 solutions, Mr. Sutanovac, the director of the Agency was obliged to do so within 72 hours, so you didn't mind, informing the competent...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3582	I ask the MP to address only me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3583	... And now that it's proposed...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3584	Ambassador Stojanovic, I must interrupt you. Talk to me. You know that direct address is forbidden by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3585	We had a solution in the previous law that within 72 hours, so nobody bothered. The Director of the Agency shall be responsible for informing the competent court of the application of the measures and shall request approval. Now we have 48 hours, a much more rigid attitude, a much shorter time. If we accept this amendment simply, then we do not trust the judicial authority because we say that the material that has been prepared in such a way will be destroyed in the presence of the competent judge. So, as citizens, we don't automatically trust the judicial authority, but we also have to trust the one to whom the measure has been extended, and we can't invite him for the reason that I said he was present at the destruction of such material.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3586	Right on line, MP Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3587	You mentioned France as a country that is a very repressive country and, as far as I know, there is no committee for the control of secret services.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3588	Talk to me. I like to listen to debates.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3589	Expansion of measures can be reading emails that you don't know who's writing you or texting you in an inbox on Facebook. Someone's picture, someone's talking to you, asking for an apartment to rent from you, communicating with them, BIA comes up with knowledge, which you don't know, they don't even know 100%, they control it for four days, and after four days it's been determined that there wasn't a person on the one hand who's on the other hand, and on the other hand, he's a citizen who has nothing to do with anything, and why would it be controversial for a man to know he was under measures? Now, by law, he can come to the BIA and say, "I'm sorry if I've been under measures and they have to tell him." Then why should we not inform him in advance and say: "Don't let anyone come?" Don't let anyone else come to the BIA, you'll get information. If there's a mistake, you have information. A card that you now mention as if it came, so find out, so no, now it can come and find out. The theme is he's not coming. The theme is to tell him – there has been a mistake, thank you, sign a statement on keeping secrets, saying goodbye, and not to wait for everyone in Serbia to know now that four days can be measured, even if they check with the BIA. That's the point. On the other hand, you wouldn't have changed this law if the Constitutional Court hadn't challenged it. You've been in power for two full years. Okay, we passed a bad law in 2002. Meanwhile, the state has changed, the Constitution has changed, everything has changed. When does the responsibility for your work begin or not work?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3590	It's been two minutes. You reported a replica. Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3591	Thank you very much. I'm trying to stick only to the text of the amendment. I think you should consider this amendment to Mr. Dragan Sutanovac. I think, as far as certain parts of this amendment are concerned, we've said something different in the debate in principle, and we're saying something different now when we're talking in particular. What is interesting when this amendment says in Article 15b: "in the case of the adoption of an order under Article 1, the Director of the Agency immediately submits the proposal" is that, in the debate in principle, we began as the first to be authorised representative, to Mr. Nedja Jovanovic, Mr. Momir Stojanović and all others, and even you, ministers, agreed that the 48-hour deadline is very long and that you will accept a possible amendment that goes in another direction and represents a better solution. Chairman, if I run out of time, I'm gonna use the time of my authorised promoter. You can't say one thing now, and something else has been said before. There are excellent parts of this amendment and it should be commended. I will personally support this proposal by saying: “If the proposal set out in Article 2 is adopted, the judges will subsequently approve the extension of the application of the special measure. If it rejects the proposal, the court will inform the person who came into conflict with the person who is subject to special measures that it was under the same special measures, and the material collected in accordance with Article 1... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ”
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3592	You're not authorized, but I'm taking away your time from the group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3593	I was an authorised representative. How could I not?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3594	We don't have that kind of report written by the group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3595	Well, I was authorized, but okay, no problem. I don't think this kind of solution of Dragan Sutanovac represents any of his new brains. In doing so, I think that these solutions are also already accepted in practice and applied to some other European countries, especially those countries that know it. The famous pandan on our BIA, those services that have both intelligence and counterintelligence, and I don't mean France. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3596	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3597	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I strongly suggest that the proposed amendment be rejected for a number of reasons. First, I believe that an adequate explanation was given by the motionary in the text he received with the opinion of the Government. There is a very detailed explanation of the reason to take the view that it is necessary to leave time for the Director of the Agency to act in the direction of the Court's address. It would be nice to be able to solve everything within the time limit, but the practical reasons suggest that there are certain actions that are necessary for a certain time, as well as certain circumstances, and here, above all, it is about changing circumstances in relation to the case, because when circumstances change, then it is treated with an extension requirement. Sometimes it is necessary to react to a new locality, sometimes to new terminal communication equipment, once new computer equipment, and it is quite realistic that it all does not happen in the same second and with the knowledge of each of these things and it is perfectly normal to leave room for the director of the Agency to make more adjustments, less or more once, but not literally in the same second, he can file a united motion to the court for all of this. After all, the very example that the promoter used should a certain error occur, so it should leave time for the agency itself to work on the mistake before addressing the court. So, normally there's a certain amount of time, and whether it's this or that number of classes, it's another question. In any case, the term "immediately" is also legally inaccurate and it clearly stands in the explanation in which we received from the Government. The second thing, when it comes to the request that the person who came into contact with the person who was struck by the measure, so to speak, be informed directly in the case of an extension that was rejected by the court. First of all, we have one very serious legal discrepancy again, which means -- the person who came into contact? The second thing, the question arises – why only in case of enlargement? Once again, a very important legal inaccuracy. The third thing, we heard in the explanation that it is a person who is in accidental contact with one who is under the fact of the measure, the law of that category, unfortunately, does not recognize, random contact and in the proposal itself, as it is submitted, is not mentioned anywhere, but is explicitly said – a person who is in contact by accident or not. In doing so, the essence is contained precisely in what the chairman of the committee responsible has said, leading directly to the danger of jeopardizing the procedure, and it cannot be understood only by one who absolutely does not want to understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3598	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3599	Thank you. If anyone in their life should be interested in a member like this, it would be me. Last year, or when it was, that story came out. Among other things, my smallness, for what reason, was at the time of Mr. Vukadinovic on the scales. It's official and confirmed, whether it's in the papers or not, and until today, I haven't found out what the reason was. I heard somewhere. Apparently, the court said that I was spreading racial...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3600	I'm asking you about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3601	I agree, but why am I telling you this? What we're looking for here would be really good, but we need to take care of what's predicted here. This is where we predict the situation when we're looking for an extension of the measure. So the measure has already begun. I believe that no one in the BIA today would ask for this extension of the measure that there is no particular indication that a particular person with some friends, was a politician, was a public figure, and I must admit, the one that is on the scales, if, for example, the situation is related to organized crime or some kind of spying, the one that is on the scales certainly does not socialize with some very nice people just like that, but clearly comes into certain contacts. I don't understand why we're asking for this now. It seems to me that we're slowly getting into a situation where someone wants BIA to turn into a utility agency. You know, BIA is in state protection. Sometimes some things don't really have to be known. Let's not play with that. Someone here mentioned France. They say it's a repressive state. We now insult France, and it is an EU country. If we have such a situation in the EU country that this country is thus protecting its interests, sorry, what would someone in Serbia limit? We really don't want to accept a amendment like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3602	Thank you. No one intended to insult France. It's just an example. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I do not question the good intentions of the amendment promoter. I think there were good intentions, but I think there's something else entirely at stake. Those things that are spoken of here in reason, why this amendment should be accepted, may need to be spoken of when we are passing a new law. This is what this is all about, and I don't understand why it's so much now, about expanding already existing measures. There is already and now we go to 48 hours, we mention BIA officials mention trials, we mention EU Member States. They're gonna do something I said in the principle debate. There is no single system in this area and a single rule for EU member states, a uniform system, in which security is organised. They're completely different cases. Somewhere in these national security areas, counterintelligence has been separated from the fight against crime, generality, etc. In our house, for example, it's in one agency. We don't have a unique system to call a case here right now – it's here or there. What matters here is the expansion of the measure. You don't need to talk about officers. It's only about the director of the Agency. That's one. Two, the acting judge already exists, no judge on duty, if we're talking 48 hours. Now we're talking about some other laws. We're talking about laws regarding the justice system, working hours, whether after three hours, whether or not the weekend. In some states, in America, you can come to the judge's doorstep and he has documentation to sign a warrant for something that's done. It is not foreseen in Serbia, it does not exist under the laws. We're getting into a situation where, say, if we don't leave the court for 48 hours, we might be able to get into a situation where we can't approve an extension of the measure, because the court, for example. It doesn't work 48 hours Christmas, weekend. We have various situations where this can happen, and yet I say, extending the measure, by acting judge, already exists which has brought a solution. This amendment and, technically, it is practically impossible to adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3604	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3605	The President-in-Office, MPs, we believe that the adoption of this amendment would reduce the operational capacity of the BIA and the efficiency of the work itself. As you have heard here good statements and ministers and other MPs, if there is a basic measure, only enlargement, de facto if you inform that person, would lead to a problem situation where you can warn the person that he is under measures on one side, but that there is also a compromising information about that first person because there is nothing guaranteed that anyone will remain silent and that he will not reveal the secret that he was at any point under any surveillance. On the other hand, it is possible to inform or provide information to people who are also in the basic process and who did not know because they are under surveillance for certain crimes, which could ultimately endanger the national security, security of the Republic of Serbia, which we cannot possibly allow. Of course, we need to discuss the greatest and better improvement of both this and all other laws, but we must not bring our country and our citizens into a situation that they do not believe in the state, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to endanger national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3606	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. You have 20 minutes and 34 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3607	Dear colleagues, we're starting from the wrong assumptions. The first assumption, which is fact, is that BIA is obliged to inform any Serbian citizen who has made an application to be informed whether he was under the measures of the service, or the Agency, the BIA is obliged to tell him, to give him full information whether or not he was. In no way does it affect the efficiency of the work. That's one thing. The other thing is, we're talking about expanding the measure, and then we're wondering how it's possible that someone might accidentally get in touch, so the fact that they came in contact by accident isn't an accident either. Why don't you imagine the situation where the BIA officer, who came to the knowledge that was not true, was practically disavuisted, and then, on the basis of that poor knowledge, the BIA director gave the order, as it is said, that this means being placed on the line, and that the basic person, against whom the measures are applied, is not involved at all. So it doesn't have anything to do with it. What am I saying that for? Because my proposal applies exclusively to the situation that the court has not approved - the extension of the measure. So, the BIA is obliged to say that they were under measures to everyone who was subject to the court's approval. Now here I insist that the people for whom the court has not approved get that knowledge imperatively, not that they come for it. So when you say -- how is it possible for someone to accidentally come into communication? How could an operative possibly be wrong? It's possible. Is it possible for someone to dissuade him? It's possible. Is it possible for someone to deliberately send him to the other side? It's possible. All that stuff about security and counterintelligence is something that happens every day. Only those who don't know the work and the way it works don't understand the possibility in which an BIA operative is told -- here's the phone that communicates with this, that's he, that's what I know, let's quickly see who he is, and the connection doesn't have to have to do with the case. So, I'm talking about citizens. I'm not talking about people who are really being measured. So, basically, I'm talking about people who were under measures that weren't court-approved, or four days, based on an estimate of an officer who came to know and who could convince the director. Is that true? It has to be true, it doesn't have to be true. He doesn't have to. The worst thing about B.I.A. is it's a lie, but that face that was four days under measure, what are we gonna do with it? Why would she suffer such a thing? It can be a follow-up measure. So, physical follow-up. Why would anyone be followed for one, two, three hours, and not days? This isn't politicizing. The least I want is to politicize this. I'll take it – it's all our fault. Guys, there are 120 of you here now and you're making decisions to make things right. If you'd just said we're correcting a Article 13 that the Constitutional Court has objected to, we'd all vote here today and support it, but you're now convincing the opposition not to understand its amendment. I've been dealing with these things a little longer than 14 years and longer, but 14 years officially. So there's no such thing as an evil intention. There is a need to sort things out one more quality way, in a way that Serbian citizens will feel more comfortable. I'm talking about those people who have nothing to do with crime or Serbia's constitutional arrangement or Serbia's security. Your assumption is that everything the BIA does is unmistakable. An operative finds out, the director approves for four days, and then why does the court bring it down? When the court knocks down, we ask ourselves, "Excuse me, and what is the sanction for this officer?" She's gone, so the wrong man. Who's the director? He was wrong, too. Okay, the director was wrong, the clerk was wrong, it's happening. In this intelligence security business, it is done on purpose, but why would a citizen who was under the measure suffer all of this and not get information, or that he would not be given imperial information, and not have to come for it. I think it's something that's good for the citizens of Serbia. I disagree, and we disagree that it is necessary 48 hours to refer the motion to the court. If the termology is immediately disputed, it will be in the legal-technical order to correct at the same time, at the same time. B.I.A. cancels in two hours. Friday afternoon ends, and Monday is a pensioner. It's done in two hours, and it takes the director 48 hours to get information to the court he's already applying. It's totally unacceptable. What's he need it for? Because the formulation is not legally-formally indicated, and at the same time we put it at the same time as he gives the order to measure someone, the court is informed at the same time. The court has 48 hours, we agree. The court is making a decision. What if the court made a decision that it was not in accordance with the law, or that it was not in conformity with the needs, or that it could not be used? That man needs to get information. For what? Because he can read it in the paper tomorrow. Which would allow it to happen to people who are not from that structure, who are the security citizens of Serbia, who have come into this situation. I repeat for those who have prepared speeches earlier, we are talking about that the court has not allowed the extension of the measure, we are talking about the safe citizens who have come under attack by the BIA, we are talking about people who do not in any way endanger the security of the citizens of Serbia, nor the Republic of Serbia, we are talking about their human rights, we are talking about the practice that exists in the modern world, and so are we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3608	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3609	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I have listened carefully to the amendment's proposals, and I have concluded that it comes from the assumption that the person on the scales will be an ordinary citizen. I guess those times are a long way behind us, at least I hope so. If some former governments applied that measure to ordinary citizens, then it was a problem, and we all know that. I want to believe that ordinary citizens will not be at these levels, but I am asking a question – what if it is on these measures that the leader of a terrorist organisation is on? It is expected that he will change it immediately before the threat of a particular state, before performing a terrorist act, his mobile phone, because he is sufficiently familiar with notification and listening techniques, to change his email, his laptop, to change his IP address. In such situations, these additions to the Law are foreseen, the BIA director can immediately continue to listen to the second device from which the terrorist organisation leader communicates with its members, who can directly commit a crime before 48 hours. So, in these situations, we have to have the measure that the BIA can apply to the leader of a terrorist organisation, not to the citizen, as this amendment goes here. If the leader of a terrorist organization has been subject to a measure, it is expected to contact his network, which and how interesting it can be for our security authorities. In these situations, in a certain way, those faces came to that end. If the faces reveal through various channels that they are, in a certain way, broken down, they can run away. Those measures can take up to a year. They can't be back in a year. What happens if we have a judge who doesn't approve of expanding these measures for a variety of reasons? We know what kind of judiciary we've found. Then what happens if they run away? The terrorist act failed, and we have to call on those people who fled, who wanted to threaten the state, statesmen, important state institutions, members of that network, and the organisation to come to the judges and attend the destruction of evidence, i.e. to understand in a very clear way that they had been breached, that our services have learned that they are a network of these organizations and by calling for the destruction of evidence, we invite them to come to know that BIA discovered them, and thus that it has discovered possible goals and future intentions of that organisation. One more thing -- how are we going to call these people, if they ran off to some aircraft carrier, Guantanamo, Cuba, if they escaped to Syria, Iran, Iraq... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3610	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: I did not finish.) You're not finished? You're taking long breaks between sentences and you're still not hearing each other. (Marian Risticevic, from the scene: someone shut me out.) Sign up again. There's no problem. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3611	I didn't want to hang up, someone turned off the tone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3612	Just keep talking about the amendment. We're talking 60 minutes on one single amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3613	I talk about the amendment all the time. If we call upon such persons to destroy evidence, in which case we have invited them to confess that they are on the line, that we know that they are a terrorist organization, that they are members of that terrorist organization. There is difficulty in calling – what if they went to Cuba, Guantanamo, on some aircraft carrier, if they went to Iraq, Iran, Libya? He's got these situations. So how and how do we keep those faces informed? I believe that the amendment promoter was well-intentioned and I support that such measures are not being taken towards the citizens, but in these situations they would have to be invited. I believe that these times, when citizens were subject to the work of security agencies behind us and that in the future they would be terrorists. So I can't support this amendment. There is one sentence – that there is no such thing, and life can be given on the stake of the homeland, but there is no reason for the country to be put on the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3614	Do MPs re-emerge on the same amendment, or is it a mistake? Orlic, Djukanovic, Jovanovic reported. Is this a re-communication by amendment? I don't understand. (Vladimir Orlic, from the scene: I return. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3615	Thank you. With the desire to slowly bring an end to the debate on this amendment and to remove any remaining doubt, I will only quote the amendment proposal as the Proposer told him – if he rejects the proposal, the court will inform the person who came into contact with the person to whom special measures apply. If the promoter sees that the difference between a person who should not be informed and an innocent citizen is clearly indicated, I don't see it. Nor are citizens mentioned who accidentally came into contact with a person who is under the measure, nor are innocent citizens. Here it stands explicitly – a person who is in contact with a person who is under measures, meaning perhaps his closest associate or someone who may be operationally interesting tomorrow. And we impose an obligation to expose the investigation, to endanger operational work legally. There is absolutely no reason to do this, nor to burden such things, with additional risks and inaccuracies with the bill which is very precise, very clear, and which may be a light year far by the quality of that law that is currently in force. There is no reason to spoil such a well-assembled solution with imprecise amendments and things that burden the practice and are completely unusable. The subject is so sensitive, we're talking about the security of the republic itself, it doesn't allow any inaccuracies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3616	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3617	The Honorable Chairman, I think it's really good that we talk about this, because it's all about the human rights corps.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3618	Yes, only now, specifically, about the amendment. I'm going to insist that the end of the session not to spread stories about foreign states, and I don't know what. Please be specific about the amendment. That goes for all MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3619	The amendment promoter came from the premise that the BIA worker could be wrong, which is the correct premise. Of course the BIA worker can be wrong. But I want to believe deeply that any BIA operative when working on an object requires, above all, certain checks before requiring that measure. I don't think any of the BIE's own executives would be embarrassed to ask for a measure without having been checked before and whether it is really necessary to put that face on any level. On the other hand, if we ask the court to tell anyone how it was followed or to destroy evidence before it, we will be in an absurd situation. I'm giving you an example that can really happen. We've been reading about a man who is suspected to be the biggest drug dealer in the region, and who we read in the paper that he's a very intelligent man, who walks his grandchild, a wonderful man. Imagine now that he was on that extended scale. The court finds that maybe it shouldn't be further on track, so call the person concerned and say, "We've been following you, we apologized for what we did, we followed you because you were in a relationship with, say, Mr. Chummett, who did what."
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3620	You can't talk like that. Ambassador, if I warn the MPs of the opposition, I must warn you. We won't talk about the names of anyone who isn't here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3621	I agree, but these things are about the amendment. I'm sorry, but we can really get into this absurd situation that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3622	I accept an apology on behalf of Parliament, but don't go any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3623	We can really come to an absurd situation that a man who is truly well-founded is in some dishonest business, that the court informs him at the end of the day and tells him: we apologize for what we did, here, before you we will destroy the evidence. He'll go and tell whoever he's hanging out with and who he's in touch with that BIA's actually following him. It's completely pointless stuff. Let's just figure it out one more time, BIA is not an organization that's absolutely at ease, but there are some things that we don't really need to know. And I believe that BIA and its leaders are working to protect this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3624	I couldn't agree more with you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3625	Thank you, President. I would like to contribute to my discussion to cover a colloquial debate and no longer pursue any assumptions about situations that are life-threatening. In any case, they could appear in certain circumstances that were referred to by both the Proposer and those who are not proponents to support this amendment. However, I would draw attention here to something else. Would this amendment bring us back to the breach of the Constitution? Would this amendment put us in a position to give the court some authority that is not regulated by law, above all by the Law on the Order of Courts, the Code of Criminal Procedure? Because there is a particular question here that the court is notifying a particular person, which means that a certain authority is given to the court which is not systematised in those procedural laws where the rights of the court are very clearly defined. We can even talk about the Law on Judges. Therefore, until previously examined and analysed whether such an amendment would possibly be in collegiate with positive procedural and legal laws, I think there is no point in having a further discussion. That's one thing. On the other hand, if this is analysed and examined, in any case, if that possibility is available and allowed, the new law announced about the BIA may resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3626	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. The time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3627	Thank you. There is often a question here about whether we trust, whether we have faith, who trusts whom, who doesn't trust, as if we're talking about a law that applies to religion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3628	Just about the amendment, please. He's referring to you, too. So we're not spreading the story. We're done with the debate. So, specifically, what BIA does, what the court does, and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3629	To understand the essence of the amendment, and I can see that most obviously don't understand the essence of BIA's work, so the least BIA does is fight organized crime, or at least that's how it should be, I don't know what your capacities are, but that's the least of it. So, BIA in its work cycle should meet exactly the people who are professionals. On the other hand, with people who are skilled, with people who know how to avoid certain measures, people who know they're sending you in the wrong direction, in the wrong direction, people who are trying to dissuade your operatives just like you're trying to do to another service. These same services, either individuals, or terrorists, they'll be trying to scare the Agency away from themselves all the time. And they'll be trying to move on to someone else all the time. So it's not about ordinary people. It's not just the people of crime, it's the smallest sphere of my interest. It is a much more serious matter, and that is what BIA's primary job is – protecting the security of the state and protecting constitutional order. Those who go against the security of the state and go against the constitutional order are certainly not naive people and of course know how to change communications, but also know how to release you the information that needs to lead you in the wrong direction. I guess that's something every intelligence work implies. That's what you learn at school, I guess, in first class. Therefore, without any problem, communication can be in a situation that is completely wrong, that communication is not on either side of the communication against which measures are being carried out, and the court finds that. What is the problem with saying to those people – you were under measures because of the fact that circumstances happened. Now, we're putting into a situation in doubt that anyone can be under minimum for four days, and when it's over, if they don't care, they won't get information, and it's a bad condition, and I really don't see why they wouldn't do it. I understand that there is no majority will, and I understand that there are various reasons for people who understand this very superficially. This is an extremely important thing from the aspect of human rights protection. Of course, we'll see, it's possible that someone is going to press charges before the Constitutional Court, so let's see if this is constitutional and whether it's possible that four days are using measures against people who simply didn't deserve to be done against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3630	Thank you. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Security Control Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Snezana Malovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3631	I'd like to thank the Honorable President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Panic, as a member of the NDS, we have submitted an amendment to Article 4 which contains four sub-members, so our amendment actually applies to two sub-members. The first part of our amendment refers to Article 15b. The draft law amending and supplementing the Security and Information Agency Act, where we have proposed that the deadline for the extension of the measure by the Director of BIA, I only apologize, will also use the time of the MP's group, you know, be reduced to 12 hours, instead of 48 hours, as provided for by the draft law, and that a decision must be made by the competent judge or the President of the Higher Court unless the competent judge has jurisdiction within 24 hours of the receipt of the proposal. We think this is a more cellular solution because if you add up the number of hours the Agency's director has the ability to submit an extension proposal and if you add up the time the court is required to decide on, then it turns out that 36 hours can actually be applied without a court ruling. Of course, we also have an understanding of the way a member is regulated in the bill. However, the issue and proportionality that the Constitutional Court has raised in its decision to repeal these provisions is also raised. Also, the draft law does not provide for an appeal for an extension of the measure, which I believe would be celibate, since it could come to the situation that, in relation to the basic measure, the first-degree court did not grant approval, but was granted by a higher court of appeal, meaning by the Court of Appeal, so that the question of what kind of relationship would have a first-degree court if an application for an extension of the measure was submitted? The second part of our amendment refers to Article 15v. which needs to be amended and amended, in accordance with our amendment, reads that - when the specific measures are applied, complete collected material is delivered to the competent public prosecutor's office. The second point of view would be - the material provided is handled in accordance with the provisions governing criminal proceedings. As provided for in the draft law, the situation only relates to the fact that the material collected on the criminal offence can be supplied to the prosecution, i.e. specific evidence actions can be determined. Here we again come to the question of the Constitution and the way the Constitution proposes the restriction of human and minority rights and the question arises whether this material can be used? I know it's celibate and I would have done so myself if I had the opportunity to write a bill, but the question is, what kind of position will the court have on this, and will the court consider this material to be similar for further criminal proceedings? I therefore well-intentionedly propose to put forward a question to the Supreme Cassation Court which is competent to decide on such exclusive issues and which is competent to even the case law. As far as I know, the court has so far had a very restrictive view of this type of material. Also, in previous times, there was a discussion of what is happening to material that is not suitable for further conduct of criminal proceedings. I have to say that I'm different from the attitudes that are expressed here that such material does not appear to be the person it refers to. In fact, Article 15b of the Bill of Law states in its second sentence – the material is handled in accordance with the provisions governing criminal proceedings, which means that if criminal proceedings are initiated it is very clear and it is not necessary to argue further that the person will be informed of this. Unless criminal proceedings are initiated, I consider that the person to whom the basic measure was applied, i.e. the extension measure, should be extended and must be notified in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure which regulates the procedure and the manner in which a person is informed of it. If that happens, we'll see in practice. In the end, I would also like to express that it is more than evident here that the basic Security and Information Agency Act is exceeded, that it will have to change, that all social factors should participate. Finally, there are obligations that our country has with regard to European integrations arising from Chapter 23 and Chapter 24 in particular Chapter 24 relating to the country's security and I believe it will be necessary for BIA's competences to comply with international practice. I also want to point to the fact, once again, that it is very good that deciding on this type of measure will have a future Supreme Court in Belgrade, which has recently been extended jurisdiction, so that it can act on other serious crimes, such as terrorism, and what the bill provides for two-stageness. I think it was a lot of confusion and introduced the fact that so far the President of the Supreme Cassation Court has decided on the measures proposed by the BIA to apply to certain persons and they were mainly involved in some of the crimes that were actually internal or international terrorism, while the court, the Supreme Court in Belgrade, decided on other serious crimes and acts concerning organised crime. So, as I said, the Supreme Court in Belgrade had to act in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, which means that if there was no criminal proceedings, then there was a procedure in which the material was destroyed and the person was informed of it. Until now, when the Supreme Cassation Court did so, the BIA Act was exclusively applicable, and there was no obligation to present themselves to the person on those measures. As I said, I believe that now that this bill is passed this bill will be fully equalized and there will be a court obligation to inform the person in any case. That's my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3632	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3633	Thank you, esteemed chairman. I'll use the time of the authorized representative. The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, Mr Selakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, which our colleagues submitted, came from the assumption that you spoke of, Minister Selakovic, we do not live in a country of flowers children. This amendment is in that direction, because it prevents the abuse of the justified rights given to the Security Information Agency for Special Measures, which implies listening to all those technical devices already spoken of today. But since we don't live in a flower country, even though I thought, Minister, coming to the Assembly on Sunday, that it's almost safe to live in a flower country, it's a little bit of a denial of my agenda because it's hard to talk in a flower country on Sundays about a security-intelligence agency, but since it's not like that, for mine and for your sake, we know what kind of country we live in, and we know what kind of world we live in. This amendment just makes it impossible for someone to abuse the possibility given to him as an agency. Therefore, it prevents it from applying specific measures without court approval for a longer period of time, and these specific measures include covert surveillance and recording of communications or surveillance of electronic or other addresses, regardless of the form and technical means through which secret surveillance and recording of communications is carried out in public places and places where access is restricted or in rooms, statistical and electronic communications surveillance etc. So these special measures can be used for 48 hours, plus 48 hours as long as the court has the opportunity to decide on the request of the Director of BIA, which is four days in total. In those four days, you will agree, Mr. Minister, these measures can be misused. Because, as someone said, these measures are not applied to ordinary citizens. They can apply to you personally. There were few newspaper articles and inscriptions where the Prime Minister, the first vice president, spoke of listening to him. The president of the state was saying that they were listening to him. Imagine if that listening is extended for four days without the court making a decision, some visit by the President of North Korea, for example, to the President of the State, which is probably some next. (President: Return to the amendment. You know, I just said that you have to speak strictly about the amendments, and the person you've announced isn't coming. I didn't mention any names. So it's theoretically possible because this measure does not apply to ordinary citizens. Why would a man who handles the field listen for 48 hours or four days? These measures are being set against those who can in some way compromise the state system, the way that the state is going. In that sense, I believe that, above all, because of the good functioning of this government, it would be very fruitful if that potential could be limited. So, there's the security of state officials, state administrations, that they're not under surveillance, maybe even four days, in doing some important work. In that sense, I believe that the amendment of our colleagues is meaningful, precisely because of the fact that we do not live in some happiest time, and through this amendment the intention of the legislator, or the intention of the government, is achieved, so whoever signed this act, the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister, is not in any way threatened by the intention of the legislator. So the same effects and greater legal certainty of citizens are being achieved, but I would say states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3634	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3635	Thank you, Your Honor. I must admit, as far as this amendment is concerned, it would be all very interesting if we at the Committee's session had not already listened to the fact that the BIA in some way was given pre-examinational opportunities, it seems to me that this amendment is precisely what those critics want to strengthen, just such activities, which BIA certainly can't have. So, the Security Information Agency is a intelligence agency, first of all, it collects certain indications, and we can't come with such indications, we can't use it in criminal proceedings. The prosecution can possibly get that, so if it tells them that there are some elements of the crime, that then to the authorities, let's say the criminal police administration or whoever, to process it as matter, but we can't define it and give the BIA that possibility that it's doing investigative or investigative activities, because it would really be completely insane. Thus, such an amendment is simply unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3636	The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find the amendment unacceptable for two reasons. One is because it significantly shortens the deadlines within which BIA's director should ask the court to extend the measure. Here it is proposed that instead of 48 hours be 12 hours. In my opinion, in 12 hours, sometimes this judge cannot be found, or those 48 hours are valuable to the BIA, and that deadline does not need to be shortened. The second reason I don't want to vote for this amendment is double-behaving when there's a government and there's an opposition. Just to remind you that in the former laws by 2009, this deadline within which the director or head of BIA could apply additional measures without the court's permission was 72 hours. Since 2009, those who now propose 12 hours have reduced the deadline not all for 48 hours. The question is therefore normally asked – when they wanted to introduce these 12 hours as a deadline within which BIA director should inform the court that some measures were extended, to request an extension of the measures, why did they not apply that deadline when they were in power, and now they suddenly remembered that this deadline could be shorter? For these reasons, this amendment is not acceptable to me and therefore I will not vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3638	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Security Control Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3639	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I just want to thank the members of the Security Services Control Committee for having seen the specificity of the amendments to the article. 3rd and 4th, submitted by my colleague Zlata Djeric and I. Of course, I would also like to thank them for proposing to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to accept this amendment. I think the consistency and accuracy of law enforcement are very important, and in that sense, if these two amendments are adopted, I believe it will positively affect the application of the BIA Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3640	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Security Control Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3641	Thank you. The amendment has nothing to do with the essence of these amendments to the law, which we have already agreed, that this law is otherwise wrong and that these changes are not working, so the general view is that we need to change the whole law. To remind the law was passed in 2002, it was probably under the Constitution then because it was unconstitutionally declared by the Constitution that was adopted after the law was passed. It took the Constitutional Court a long time to understand this unconstitution and it took the current government a long time to change one or two members of the law by order of the Constitutional Court. Of course I repeat once again, the amendment that I have submitted has nothing to do with the essence of this law, but it has to do with the application of the law, and otherwise with one bad practice that has been introduced, obviously not so long ago, which is that we have one vague formulation since the laws apply to us. The proposal is that this law enters into force on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger". There may be some expert legal opinion on exactly what it means. I don't think the majority of Serbian citizens know what this formulation would mean. Does this mean that if we adopt the law today and are published today in the “Official Messenger” that it is valid from today, if it is valid from today, then the question is how many hours is it worth. Whether it is already in force, even though it is not adopted or will be valid at the time of its publication, i.e. the printed "Official Messenger", and then we as well as the MPs, let alone the citizens at which the "Official Messenger" is printed. That's why I'm offering a formula that's also familiar, I didn't invent it, and that's that the law is valid from the next day of publication in the "Official Messenger" with absolutely unclear, to me bar, why not apply the Constitution...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3642	You've wasted your time, you're spending another five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3643	Why does Article 196(4) not apply if I do not cheat on the Constitution, where it writes – that the laws enter into force, i.e. they start to apply on at least the eighth day of publication in the Official Messenger. In this case, the situation is because the motioner has broken the deadline that he received from the Constitutional Court for what reasons, whether for reasons not to be a session on Thursday, so that there are no parliamentary questions, or for some other reason, in general, six months has been a long enough time for these amendments of this law to change and for us to adopt this law as well as all other laws in one procedure that is not urgent, and which does not require the law to enter into force immediately, that is, on the day of adoption. I think that the information that I have proposed is absolutely acceptable doesn't get in the essence of the application of this law can start to apply at the same time as if that formulation was kept, by the fact that in the event of the adoption of what I propose it would be clearer, and I think it would be a good practice to continue to formulate the beginning of the law. Generally, this area is all over the world solved on the edge of a knife. Nowhere in the world there is absolute democratic public control of the security service, that we do not now enter the story of dysnilandes and Hollywoods and other beautiful places. Security control depends on how the executive government wants to use these services. It was, it was today, and there's no doubt about it. So, the conscience of the executive government has always been whether to use it in a constitutional and legal manner of security service or to commit their abuse. Of course, every abuse returns because no authority is eternal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3644	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3645	Dear Members of Parliament, with a great desire from the SNS to adopt all the good proposals that will contribute to improving these laws, we will not be able to support anything that is and the promoter himself said has nothing to do with the law, so we will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3646	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is holy Sunday, yesterday was Vidovdan, we farmers, no matter what the holidays were, we had to work both as MPs and as farmers. So, here's one untruth in the previous presentation, and it says it took two years to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3648	Please, you applied for the amendment, not the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3649	Of course, we're talking about the amendment. Madam Chairman, I'm only talking about what's already been said, it's about dates. This is where you work...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3650	It's about the amendment. As a rule of one goes, so do all, fit in. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3651	I don't know if you've read the amendment. The amendment says that this law...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3652	The chairman reads all the amendments. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3653	Ma'am, if you're going to come down with me, you have to come down.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3654	I'm not letting anyone jeopardize Parliament's dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3655	I'm not jeopardizing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3656	Go ahead, we won't lead the controversy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3657	Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3658	My right to the Rules of Procedure is to interrupt when someone is not sticking to the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3659	This law takes effect the next day from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. The law says he's in effect right now. The previous speaker said he wanted this extension because it took two years to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, which is not true. It's been less than a year, and the decision when it was published is 26. Seven. In 2013, and its publication was delayed for six days. So, one false thing has been said. I'm willing to vote in favour of this amendment if I suggest that 24 hours does something, if something needs to be packed, etc. I am willing to support this amendment in such situations, but apparently, the dates, the additions are not the strong side of the previous speaker, its stronger side is the seduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-29-0.u3660	Since we've completed the search on all amendments, I've concluded the review of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Please, Mr. Sutanovac, this is a final debate. Thank you. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Sunday 29 June 2014 starting at 13.00 a.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote, because we are establishing a quorum. Dear People's MPs, before we move to decision-making on the agenda points of this session, we need to determine the quorum. I would like to remind you that Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 151 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Security and Information Agency Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Security and Information Agency Act, in principle. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – five abstentions – there are no, 20 MPs did not vote from a total of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Before moving to the amendment decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski to Articles 3 and 4. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Security Control Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 169 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 166 of the total of 179 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total of 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 171 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 164 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanovic and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 176 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you it's Article 5. The bill provides for this law to take effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in its adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – nine abstentions – there are no, three of the 182 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on amendments and on the existence of particularly justified reasons for entry into force within eight days of the date of its publication, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Security Information Agency Act as a whole. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – seven abstentions – there are no votes, six of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Security Information Agency Act. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I thank everyone for today's work.
