ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16080	Thank you, President. Dear members of the ministry, fellow Members of Parliament, we have proposed with our amendment that the name of the law be changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16081	MPs, please just get a little closer to the microphone. There's no noise in the O.R. That's why you can't hear anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16082	The proposed name of the bill is a copy of the name of the applicable law. Given the matter it regulates most correctly, this law would be called the Control and Insurance Act. This is a solution that respects the specificity of regulatory supervision in insurance, as well as the scale of matter requiring special legislation. It is listed what this Insurance Act is, to say what its powers are, but the subject of the law is determined so as to include, in addition to purely status issues, the establishment, the performance of insurance activities, the related activities and control issues, as well as the provision of insurance to persons from Member States and foreign states, the protection of persons involved in the legal relationship of insurance. It is a matter traditionally regulated in developed countries by the law on contract and insurance, which we consider to be the initial inconsistencies of the legislator. Part of the professional public believes that the underdeveloped Serbian wind insurance market would give a systematically different concept of insurance regulation. It would best be considered that the statute law only rules on the establishment and operation of insurance companies, as well as the exercise of supervision, while all contractual issues should be regulated in the same place, in the Treaty and Insurance Act, or the civil code which we know to be a few years ago, that it is concerned. Therefore, it is proposed that all status and contractual issues of intervention and representation in insurance be regulated by a special law. This is because the distribution system of insurance services is the weakest link to the Serbian insurance chain. If the same in detail were to be regulated in a European way, we believe that the activities would be resuscitated and contribute to the development of the insurance service. That's why we suggested that the insurance bill be changed, that this name be changed, and that it's called as we stated in the explanation of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16083	On Chapter 1, the name of the head, the name above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Dragutinović and the Honored Guests, I suppose from the NBS, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted 181 amendments to this proposal for a law on insurance and, please, it is necessary to give one reference to a historic matter, which, I think, concerns this debate today very much. A great man, respected gentlemen, a politician, a respected literary critic, a historian of literature and a university teacher, Jovan Skerlic, a hundred years ago, respected gentlemen, announced the following in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia – the National Representation was reduced for this year to the role of a voting machine and for receiving the knowledge of already finished acts. Dear gentlemen, it seems that a hundred years has passed and we have not moved from place in relation to this observation of Jovan Skerlic, and the way in which Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, as governor of the NBS, joined the preparation, interpretation and discussion of the Security Law proposal...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16085	Ambassador, I'm really going to be very strict at this session. Only amendments will be discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16086	Of course, Mrs. Gojkovic, I support such an approach.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16087	Since I asked for your amendments to write me what was deleted, I follow closely.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16088	Please, that's why it's very important for me to use the time I have on the amendment in this performance, that's those extra five minutes, the esteemed president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16089	Not according to the amendment, but in the overall debate, all 600 amendments are only five.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16090	I agree. So, Article 1 of this law, gentlemen, concerns the definition of the subject matter of the law, respected Mrs Dragutinovic. You weren't here when we talked in principle, so I'm sorry if you missed that part of the debate. It seems to me that we have agreed here that all the members of this bill should be deleted, including Article 1 concerning the subject matter of the law, because of a lack of respect for the dignity of the National Assembly. Dear gentlemen, Article 1 which we believe should be deleted reads like this, and I will explain why I think it should be deleted: "This law regulates the performance of insurance in the Republic of Serbia." That's an important question, Mr. Dragutinovic. In this context, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, as well as with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council on the I think that's an important question, too. Then: "Doing insurance and reinsurance interventions", Mrs Dragutinovic," and that is one, I think, important issue. Further: "Doing insurance representation jobs", which is also a very important issue. I see you agree, Mrs. Dragutinović. Further: “We are finally approaching the end of the sentence, the exercise in the Republic of Serbia of the activities of the insurance company, insurance contracters, insurance users and third party users, as well as – we are finally approaching the end of the sentence – the performance in the Republic of Serbia of the activities of the insurance of persons from EU Member States and other foreign countries.” Dear gentlemen, I think it is enough to remind us of Article 1 which we have submitted the amendment to delete, to determine the importance of this bill. So this bill of law has a terrible importance for our country. If he has a terrible importance, Mrs Dragutinovic, it means that this bill should have been sent to the Serbian Parliament by regular procedure. And this, dear Mrs Dragutinović, means to us the following – that this bill, which defines what it is all about, should we, if we respect Article 154. Rules of Procedure, Mrs Dragutinovic, states: “The bill, drawn up in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, can be included in the agenda of the National Assembly session within no less than 15 days of its submission.” Mrs Dragutinović, for this subject of the law, and everything is described in Article 1, you have announced that no special preparation is necessary in the Assembly. Here, Mrs Tabakovic wrote here: "Because a public hearing procedure has been conducted, this law can go to the Assembly and by emergency procedure." Dear gentlemen, by emergency procedure, we have an exact member who defines this procedure. Nowhere in the explanation of Mrs Tabakovic I have not learned, noticed or seen that there really are reasons for an emergency procedure. On the contrary, Mrs Dragutinovic, when we talk about article 1 concerning the subject matter of this law, Mrs Tabakovic told us that it was not necessary to work this fast, but because she believes that spending time is twice coming to the National Assembly, for the first time with a proposal for amendments and the second time with a new law, that we should use one shortcut. Dear gentlemen, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, our Assembly must not be a shortcut for anything. In our National Assembly, which represents the sanctuary of our political life, we need here to conduct the most serious political debate on all proposals of the law, and especially on those proposals of law that are very important, as is very important to this insurance law, respected Mrs Dragutinovic. Our proposal is, and today we will be persistent in this struggle, that the National Bank of Serbia withdraws these laws, to send through the regular procedure of all these draft laws, and that then in the National Assembly, the respected National Assembly presidents, Mrs Gojkovic, we have a debate as to the dignity of an institution that is the central political institution in our constitutional system, Mrs Dragutinovic and respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16091	Ambassador, you haven't talked about the amendment, I must tell you. Secondly, it is not the governor of the National Bank of Serbia that parliament will work... I guess I'll live to be interrupted in half of my sentence... Since it applies to the Rules of Procedure of your exposure, but, well. You know there was a vote yesterday and you know what it says in the Rules of Procedure, honourable MP Pavicevic and the MPs of this parliament voted and approved an emergency procedure. So you missed the subject. In a row? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16092	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I advertise Article 27 and in relation to Article 27. 189, 103 and 101. Namely, the governor of the National Bank, as far as I know, is Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, unless I missed something in the forest yesterday, that she was resolved or replaced, but she couldn't, since it was done by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And she's the only one who's authorized to defend the Insurance Act and all other laws in front of the National Bank. Please, the chairman, that in the light of the law, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the analogy that we have during the debate on other laws, stop, or take a break at this sitting, while Mrs Tabakovic, if he is still the governor, does not appear at this sitting. I don't know which one gets in the way of work she can have, except for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? If she gave the laws by emergency procedure, she should have also known that she should be in Belgrade at the time, or in this room. The least MPs deserve is for her to be there and respond to the amendments. I respect Mrs Dragutinovic, besides that, she was a minister while I was an MP in our government, but it would be normal for her to be governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, not only normally, but also according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I invite you to take a break until Mrs Tabakovic appears.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16093	Your exposure to article 27 has very little touch. You were talking about the governor, not the President of Parliament. I'm not going to take a break at all, we're going to work on a regular basis, and we got power from the vice governor, and when you look at what the powers of the vice governor are, you'll realize that he has the right to be here in the O.R. and to defend the opinions that they've given on the amendments to all these laws, most of them - is deleted. Of course, you can exercise your right and we will vote on this, although it applies nothing to the chairman, but to the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, who remains governor of the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16094	Yeah, to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16095	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16096	Thank you, Your Honor. Otherwise, I had no intention of answering, because when someone submits 280 and some amendments, and they're all deleted, then it's pointless to report for such a thing, because usually such amendments are passed by someone who either didn't read the law or wants to do parliamentary obstruction, which is legitimate. We don't mind, everyone can perform parliamentary obstruction, but I also want to believe that someone didn't even read the law because in the principle debate, they praised us here that he only saw the cover of those laws. But let's tell the citizens about this amendment -- it is deleted, what is required to be deleted. Among other things, he says, the title of the basic provision. Citizens of Serbia, if you know, someone who doesn't want to put order into this country's financial system, then endures such amendments, so he doesn't obstruct and we haven't been here all day and all night. We'll be if it takes all night here, but we're not going to give up some reform in the financial system because, enough of this country has survived the robbery and the carrying out of money, a lot of these people have had insurance problems because the company's purse was working here. Someone wants to stop it. We will beat you with arguments, and you can take as many amendments as you want to submit which reads "expect". It's not our idea to give it up. We will fight here with arguments, we will defeat you and, of course, we will show the citizens of Serbia how much we want to do somewhere useful to you whose sole goal is parliamentary obstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16097	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16098	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose, of course, that this amendment be rejected, an amendment in which Chapter I, the title above Articles 1 and 1 are to be deleted. I think it is absolutely unacceptable for everyone to delete everything mentioned for all those reasons that requires common sense and sound logic. Imagine Madam Chairman, a law that does not contain a Head called – Basic Provisions. Or Article 1 that regulates what it is that is the subject of this law at all. Imagine what that would look like? The proposer of this amendment is exactly what he's asking for. But what do they care, Madam Chairman, they obviously wanted to play with the law again, to play with the Rules of Procedure again, to play with the National Assembly, but also with the citizens of Serbia. Because how else can we understand the writing of as many as 513 amendments, the exact same amendments with a single sentence “wipes” than the playing and disdaining of the National Assembly? I'm sorry we got into this situation, Madam Chairman. I am sorry that some MPs have the need to constantly humiliate, to play with the National Assembly and to disrespect both the Assembly, the state, and the citizens of Serbia. One more thing, we heard here a remark that there wasn't enough time to prepare for this law. As you know, the whole procedure is respected. There was a public debate. It's not true that we haven't had time to see exactly from the reasons proposed by this amendment. The fact that he spent some time on a list of historical readers, that's already his problem. I hope we refuse this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16099	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know it's all clear to you, but for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, there are some things that need to be said clearly. This amendment as well as all 513 amendments signed by two MPs belonging to the New Party will be rejected. I know that it will be rejected by parliament and thank God because in parliament there are responsible people in the vast majority who want Serbia already to regulate the financial system, the banking system, to coordinate if we have some changes regarding EU directives, because we want to become a part of the EU as soon as possible, the citizens of Serbia want it. Those who do not know how to reach the vote, because every SNS meat committee in such municipalities as Presevo, Bujanovac, Senta, Ada has more votes than that party at national level, without talking about some other environments, has the right to say so. If someone submits 513 amendments, it's 18 hours of debate. Count and you'll see, it's 18 hours of discussion. Eighteen hours of talking about something being deleted, a member per member, means that someone is against the whole law. He could have stood up in a principled debate, in a time he had and perfectly normal to explain why he was against that law. This isn't even obstruction, this is completely pointless. Serbian citizens should know and now I will try to calculate, I will go to the service to calculate, how much does it cost Serbian citizens and taxpayers 18 hours of debate because two non-serious MPs submit such amendments just to take pictures. It costs citizens of Serbia every day, every penny. It costs taxpayers. We could've done a lot more. We want to finish something and join the EU as soon as possible. We don't want to live in a country where we're going to have inflation 25% in one night, as it happens somewhere. So we want to sort out this whole system and be a part of it. I know that MPs, seeing as I already know you and even some I recognise as Democrats, react to what I say, have the right to submit such amendments, but everyone has the right to say that they are as pointless as they are and to cost the citizens of Serbia as they cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16101	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand the desire of the legislator of this law to obstruct the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that is their right. Whether it's meaningful or pointless, I'm not interested in it at all. I can also say that our citizens today can travel to EU countries without green cards, at no extra cost, and that since the new year we have had to amend legislation. The promoter of this amendment did not take care of the citizens at all, he only took care of his political interest. By putting up with these amendments, it makes our citizens feel like they've been taking out green cards again since the new year, putting on extra costs, maybe it's funny to someone, but that's what it says and bringing them back to some time ago. It is obvious that the proposings of these amendments are people of the past, living in the past, and we will always be very happy to remind them of their past, and their past is that this amendment is not in line with EU directives, not only with EU directives, but also with what citizens expect from the National Assembly and the NBS as a proposing, which is that they can travel and not be exposed to additional costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16103	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16104	Thank you. Supporting the amendment of counterparts Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, because it is a legitimate strategy that if you want any of the laws not to be adopted in the manner that it is procedurally proposed and that it is justified by reading the arguments, therefore, it is legitimate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to submit amendments in which you want each member to be deleted, because there is no law in the event of acceptance of the amendment. I look forward to the already-started folklore of disqualification of MPs. An attempt to silence and deny the rights of MPs to submit amendments. Disqualifications of people who voted for MPs whose strategy is to submit amendments to the way they are and totally demeaning the idea of which the National Assembly is doing. Why am I looking forward to it? Because it will be proof of pride for ignorance of the meaning of the congregation debate. Because I'll probably hear a few times that they're going to vote on the rejection of the amendment, and we're witnesses in this assembly and in the previous one, that those who promise not to vote by refusing to vote. And no vote is refusal and that's legitimate. The attempt to silence the MP always ends with the noise of other MPs and social groups who consider silence inappropriate what we all call a democratic society together. According to the amendment, the argument that the amendment is rejected is that it is a shame for the MP to submit such amendments. The argument that this amendment is being rejected is a commentary on who voted for MP Vladimir Pavicevic and why. And it is necessary to answer with an argument to these disqualifications, because I deeply respect a million and 737 thousand people who voted for the ruling party. If I don't respect deep and fair, then I don't respect and respect people who are 215 or 50,000 people who voted for the DS. That is why it is necessary to explain why I look forward to the ignorance that will be very loudly shared about what the institution in which we are sitting really means. We can have government and power without opposition. There's as much as you want, but you can't have democracy without criticism and opposition. That will be the case, I suppose, in any opposition to the legitimate rights of the MPs Vladimir Pavicevic and Zoran Zivkovic to submit the amendment, and more will be sought if I really attend the debate where the content and the article to which the amendment is submitted will be discussed and the content of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16105	Thank you. No, I'm not gonna interfere with how you're gonna waste group time. I apologize, Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16106	From the head of the Parliament's time group. I'll say something...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16107	Are you authorized? No, or Deputy Chief. Then we're subtracting from your authority by this point. There's no duplication.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16108	That's right, that's right. Yes, a few words about the reasons why the ruling party MPs, or ruling coalitions, feel that this amendment should not be accepted. One of the arguments was that the SNS in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji had so many members. I don't know if that's why...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16109	MP by amendment. If you want a replica, I'll give you a lot of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16110	I am talking about the reasons the representatives of the ruling coalition's parties said this amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16111	It's a replica. You're talking about the amendment and communicating with the motionary's representative. I know what a replica is, I know what it is...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16112	I'm not communicating with a proposing representative. He's not here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16113	Well, you don't see it then. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16114	I don't see Mrs. Tabakovic, I really don't see her. In addition to everything I see, I'm throwing it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16115	Ambassador, we've got a lot of work to do today, we're not gonna joke, it's not a joke. I'm just asking you about the amendment, I'll give you your time back. You don't want any more? Thank you. The word is Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16116	Dear President, dear fellow MPs. The motions of this amendment require the removal of Article 1 which is, in fact, the subject of this law, so that MPs, as they have stated in their reasoning, have enough time to make good proposals to improve this law. I propose that this amendment be not accepted, because the bill was sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by emergency procedure, and in accordance with the procedure itself, the text of the law passed several public debates, and the draft law was available on the website of the National Bank of Serbia, so that anyone who had the intention to refer to the law itself could have done so. If one of the MPs wishes to make a contribution to the improvement of a law, it shall, in the form of amendments, make concrete solutions, i.e. concrete proposals that are not practical in the case of the promoter. Practice has become "expunged", which in fact raises the proposal's intention to contribute as much as possible to the quality of the adoption of a certain law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16117	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikirz. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word is Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16118	Thank you, very briefly. As an authorised representative of our parliamentary group, I said that this is one of the best laws that has entered the assembly procedure, and it is a rare opportunity that we can speak of one law in such an affirmative way. My amendments have this very constructive character with full respect for all other applicants of the amendments. I thought that in point 1 of the list of the most important activities of insurance should also be added - internal controls, internal audits and audits of the insurance and reinsurance society, because point 1 does not mention the resecuritisation company anywhere, and in other provisions of the law, the law, mainly when talking about insurance, touches and resecuritisation. On the other hand, I think that these jobs are very important to be designated as one of the most significant insurance business and that at least in the range of business interventions and representations in insurance, and this kind of internal control, preventive control is very important and precedes that external surveillance, which is now very elastic but there is, to say, this repressive line, because it can be said and a series of measures towards insurance companies, with the ultimate degree of withdrawal of the permit to work or to launch a bankruptcy or liquidation of the insurance company. Since this internal control system is the obligation of the company's administration, since you are calling on European directives, which is absolutely correct, but by looking at comparative legislation, many of the countries that are members of the EU were in Article 1 precisely in the listing of the activity of insurance, predicted that there is, as well as the activity of internal controls, internal audits and audits of insurance companies, I am just saying because of the great importance of these activities in the regular business of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16119	Thank you. To the name above... Yeah, it says guest one, Diana Dragutinovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16120	I would have to say that I essentially liked your amendment because it gives quality systematization of the text of the law. However, it has not been consistently implemented because, for example, Article 5, which also defines what you have defined before the amendment you have proposed, is repeated. Also, what is an argument that, for example, internal audit, external audit, this is not a parent law for these areas. So there are other laws that regulate. Purely bookable, it seems systematic. It doesn't contribute to the quality of the law itself. I personally liked it, but I'm saying, if it had been consistently implemented, because look at Article 5 of this law, we would have accepted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16121	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, respected Mrs. Dragutinovic and the guests of the National Bank of Serbia, I suppose, will try to convince all MPs to accept our concrete proposal in our amendment to Article 2, where we predict that Article 2 of this bill should be deleted. Here's to trying to convince you, dear gentlemen. The following shall be written in Article 2: the activity of insurance shall consist of insurance operations, including co-insurance, resecuritisation operations, insurance interventions and insurance representation operations. We also considered in our argument Mrs Tabakovic, who is not here, but there is Mrs Dragutinović, we felt that since the proposal for the Insurance Act provides that the application of the largest number of provisions of this bill, or the law, should it be adopted six months from the date of entry into force of this law, would be necessary for the MPs here to leave a little longer, and for me that means enough time to get acquainted with the provisions of this bill. As we can see from Articles 1 and 2, these are all very important categories. We were answered by the NBS or by someone on behalf of the National Bank here that the amendment was not accepted because the bill was sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on an urgent procedure and in accordance with the procedure. I am not in agreement with this argument and I cannot accept it, because what it says in the bill – we propose it to be an emergency procedure, does not necessarily mean that it is in agreement with the meaning of an emergency procedure based on our Rules of Procedure. I note there is one difference and I call upon the Members to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16123	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16124	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, honored guests, respected chairman, after the correction and intervention of the MPs who have submitted the amendment, the work of insurance is next. This is the work of insurance as proposed by the honourable MPs, the amendment's promoters. This if we vote for it, this will be the work of the insurance company. This brilliant, this great, this meaningful amendment I've hardly seen. This is a worthy academic congratulation of a professor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16125	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16126	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for this amendment for the simple reason that I want to support the New Party amendment, the amendment of Vladimir Pavicevic, Zoran Zivkovic, as a way of fighting in this house, respecting procedures, respecting democratic procedures, for discussing the laws under ordinary procedure. The Serbian Progressive Party has said several times today since this morning that amendments and this number of amendments are expensive. We just had a chance to hear from my predecessor, and the debate about the law in the ordinary procedure is expensive, and over 90% of the laws that entered this house is... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16127	You'll be kind about the amendment, I believe you know about the amendment to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16128	Yeah, yeah, I get it. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16129	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16130	The amendment is deleted, deleted, so it says, for the simple reason that something completely different has been said in this way. If the president doesn't understand, I can explain to you what the point is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16131	You don't have to, thank you, I get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16132	Then let me finish. Thank you. No one knows the provisions of the law by emergency procedure. Such provisions of the law are unfounded. It is the set of such laws that poses a problem for the citizens of Serbia, not a regular procedure. If it is a regular procedure, Presidents of the Assembly, it means that some MPs question the existence of this house, and you have not intervened as President of the National Assembly, and you have not warned such MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16133	Okay. I don't want you and I to communicate, but I'd like to ask you again about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16135	For the respect of the procedure you appeal to.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16136	I'm done. Just one more sentence. I support the amendments and the way that Professor Vladimir Pavicevic has discussed the urgent process of the law with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16137	For the sake of the public, as President of Parliament, I am obliged to say that the procedure is absolutely respected by the Rules of Procedure, so we have a regular procedure, we have a shortened procedure, and all procedures are followed in a shortened procedure. So someone wouldn't be confused after this kind of discussion. I just have to say it. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16138	Replica. Madam President, I thank you for trying to explain that all procedures in the 10th Assembly are respected, as the procedure is respected when a zillion amendments are directed into the procedure, that is by the rule, and no one has anything against it. It's a political expression. I think the political expression when the amendment is written -- deleted, deleted, deleted; and so hundreds and thousands of times, it just shows a lack of argument, ignorance and that the action to which the law applies is erased. I don't see creativity in that, and I don't see any connection to the emergency procedure. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly did not adopt the assembly majority in which the SNS participated, and if, in the opinion of some colleagues and when someone sneezes in Serbia, and the time is the flu, it is the responsibility of Aleksandra Vukic and SNS. But it's not that simple. The Assembly in its procedure respects the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. What is true is that these laws were in public debate, that they passed communication with all insurance companies, and believe me, many of them I talked to in the previous days, informing themselves of both their demands and their thinking. Anyone wanted to deal with these laws could have done so at these public debates, he could have seen it on the NBS site, however, we saw that in 10 days how many of these bill proposals were in the procedure, some MPs as they confessed to us a few days ago. It was enough that they read the first page, and then the first page, 125th and 386th. That doesn't make this number of amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16139	Thank you. According to the amendment, Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16140	Thank you. As in previous times, but I am glad that we have now received confirmation in the interpretation of one of the MPs, he supports, among other things, that this law should be discussed and it is good for someone to admit it, dear citizens of Serbia, because this amendment is "expunged" really devising the whole work of this Parliament. I can say free parliamentary obstruction is allowed everywhere, it's legitimate, but there's a question in a situation where, for example, insurance companies are very discriminatory in this country, and the way that citizens have secured themselves here and the way that banks and loaned...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16141	Please, it's about the performance of the insurance to erase, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16142	I'll be back, of course. We all know how insurance companies are here, how they did business and what they did. There is a reform law that will help citizens, if nothing, to establish certain standards for the establishment of an insurance society, someone is trying to dissipate it. Dear Serbian citizens, I'm glad you heard exactly from fellow MPs on the contrary that they want to reason with you. They may want to continue to give you the uncertainty you've been in all these years while they ruled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16143	On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16144	Thank you, Chairman. I think Mrs Dragutinović and I were quite familiar with the amendment to Article 1. The law, but I think it had some space precisely because of all citizens who would be users of insurance to accept the amendment to Article 2. For what? In its proposal for a law, the National Bank states that the activity of insurance consists of insurance operations, including co-insurance, resecuritisation, insurance intermediation and insurance representation operations. All of this has to do with insurance, but I think I've given my amendment more precise definitions and clearer separation of business directly related to insurance, i.e. doing all the insurance and business business activities that are directly related to insurance operations, these are activities of intermediation and representation in insurance. For what? Intermediaries and insurance representatives do not carry out all the activities of insurance, but they are, of course, related to the activity of insurance. In order to ensure that citizens understand this, insurance operations cover all tasks concerning the conclusion of insurance contracts, business risk control and orderly business of insurance and insurance contracts. That's what intermediaries, insurance agents certainly don't do. On the other hand, I also told Mrs Tabakovic that from the point of view of the profession, the law is perfect, but the law also concerns all citizens who need to understand a certain terminology that should also be in line with the Law on Liabilities and what is my little surprise and I have seen myself as a representative of insurance that the courts have not understood enough and the terms of "secure" and "secure" that this law does not regulate at all, but not to spread the subject, I have tried with my amendment to make it very clear to anyone who reads the Insurance Act to be clear about what these are insurance business. Thus, these are the conclusion and execution of insurance contracts and the taking of measures to prevent and combat risks that may endanger the insured assets and persons. Insurance operations are the conclusion and execution of insurance contracts between several insurance companies that have agreed on common coverage and risk distribution, because we have no definition of insurance anywhere in the law. Furthermore, resecuritisation operations are the conclusion and execution of a resecuritisation contract above the holding of an insurance company at the reinsurance company, which would mean that if the insurance company has certain assets and provides an asset which, in the event of the occurrence of a harmful event, cannot cover with its capital of the compensation, that means that the surplus above the assets available to the insurance company, means, only holding, that the part is resecured by another insurance company in order for the insurance company to be able to collect the full damage in the event of an adverse event. Finally, I do not explain the additional activities of insurance intervention and representation, but I have defined this, looking also at comparative legal practice and the Law on bond relations, that these are directly related to insurance transactions, these are business interventions and representations in insurance, establishing risk and damage assessments, intermediation for the sale and provision of other intellectual and technical services in relation to insurance operations. I think Mrs Dragutinović understands that absolutely, and I think that really qualified staff at the National Bank should have what I'm saying that she understands absolutely, and that she knows what jobs are about only insurance and jobs that don't cover all insurance jobs, but, of course, they have dots with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16145	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16146	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the National Bank of Serbia, we also suggest that there is a chance that our amendment to Article 3 concerning the insurance and reinsurance society will also be adopted. To remind MPs who probably didn't have time to read all these members and Serbian citizens to know what it says in this bill. This article consists of two positions in the 1st position, reads: "The insurance company is a legal person established in the Republic who is registered in the register of the competent authority on the basis of the permission of the National Bank of Serbia to carry out insurance operations". Then we're in a different position, and that's just about doing resecuritisation jobs. We have, of course, explained this amendment of ours, but I want here, if possible, the esteemed president of the National Assembly to offer another argument that makes me feel that this amendment should be accepted. In fact, I have noticed that among the MPs here there may be one fear that, if Article 3 is deleted in relation to the insurance and reinsurance companies, then we will have one void legal on this issue. Here, just to put away those fears of the People's Messengers, we won't. In light of this bill, the National Bank has told us that there is already a legislative framework for supervision, for the work of insurance, and that we already have the Insurance Act that has been changed several times. And not only that, gentlemen, but in the first paragraph, it is, to say to Mr. Babic, page 127, I have not mentioned her yet, even the National Bank has announced a series of praises at the expense of the existing Insurance Act. There's no reason to reject this amendment of ours, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16147	The word has been made by MP Milan Novakovic, following the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16148	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mrs Dragutinović, guests from the National Bank, colleagues and fellow MPs, certainly that this amendment is unacceptable, as well as the previous, who are all looking at this in writing in a wiper, not in a pen for writing. We absolutely agree here on a democratic debate, and that is why all SNS MPs advocate, but give a creative cause, a concrete proposal. If you haven't read this law correctly, you should have read it again before writing the amendments, because you seem to be looking at everything in the delete...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16149	I'm asking for an amendment. Don't rephrase the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16150	Before that, we also had some attempts to clean something up here, and now we have to delete. I don't think anyone will ever think to clean anything or wipe it out in this Serbia again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16151	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16152	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the National Bank of Serbia, here we have a concrete proposal which is also contained in our amendment to Article 4 of this Bill proposal. This article, by the way, concerns volunteering and our concrete proposal, gentlemen, I think in part and creatively, is that this article 4 on volunteering is deleted. People's MPs from the Progressive Party, respected presidents of the National Assembly, are still right. We have submitted the 281st amendment to so many members of this bill, because our idea is to cancel this bill because of non-compliance with the procedure. In Article 4, in particular, we propose to delete the 1st position, which reads: "The security of assets and persons is voluntary", as well as the 2nd position, which reads as follows: "The security of property and persons is mandatory only in the case of the prescribed law". I remind the Members of the people that if they accept our amendment and decide here in the National Assembly to oppose a single violation of the procedure of the Lord of the National Bank of Serbia that it will not mean that this area, as far as this bill is concerned, will not be arranged. Let me just say that the existing Insurance Act, as claimed by the people of the National Bank of Serbia, laid the groundwork for the regulation of this segment of the financial sector. That means there won't be purity, we won't be zero, nothing will be empty like white paper, as some MPs have shown. No, there is already a content of the existing Insurance Act, and this will apply until the National Bank of Serbia begins to respect the procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16153	The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16154	The esteemed chairman, respected guests from the National Bank, respected colleagues, amendment to Article 4 as well as all previous and probably all future guests, will not and cannot be accepted. It is legitimate that all that is in accordance with the law, and whether it is just, let the citizens evaluate it, and our MPs in this assembly will judge it. Someone who calls for respect for procedure of course has the right to submit amendments. I don't know why he contests the right of this assembly to vote for the law to be considered in accordance with an emergency procedure? It's a vote, and I don't know why every address goes back to that? You have the right to amendments, we have the right to consider an emergency procedure and I don't think there's any need to discuss it. A very clear and important amendment, short and precise. I will read one more time: “The security of assets and persons is voluntary. Insurance of property and persons is mandatory only in the case of a prescribed law. “ Nothing shorter or clearer could be written. The amendment itself has no basis and this member of the law will remain and must remain in this and this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16155	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16156	For the sake of truth and for the sake of Serbia's citizens, I would like to thank Mr Birmancevic for reading Article 4 which the amendment's promoters have proposed to delete. It erases, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, volunteering. Voluntaryness is equal to freedom, equal to one of basic human rights. I can understand that when a volunteer is deleted, the freedom of people in Serbia who can say -- I want insurance, I don't want insurance, we will, or we won't. Is all of this a covert wish of the amendment promoter for a particular dictatorship that will prescribe that something should be allowed without laughing? We saw yesterday and in debate that the same fellow MPs tried to tell us whether we could talk to each other or not. These are dangerous tendencies. This amendment is unacceptable for the SNS because by eradicating volunteering, one of the basic human rights is deleted, which is the right to volunteer, the right to freedom to decide, the right to define, on the basis of its own thinking, what it wills and how it wills. I think this amendment essentially shows the proposal's wish, the desire of this political party to a kind of dictatorship that we must not allow, either in Parliament or in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16157	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16158	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs Dragutinovic, respected guests from the NBS and especially respected presidents of the National Assembly, I am now discussing Article 5, but I have just heard that a term has been used for me. I realized that this is where Vladimir Pavicevic, so I, is marked as a dictator. I don't know, Mr President, if you're sharing that position right now, so we can discuss this, about the amendment to the insurance bill. I don't think that was appropriate, but I will focus on our argument based on which we believe that the majority here in the Serbian Parliament should also accept our amendment to Article 5 concerning insurance matters. The submission of amendments is not about the work of dictators, but about the work of MPs, and I am one of the two MPs who submitted the amendment to Article 5. As I said, this Article 5 concerns insurance business, and I think it's very good when citizens have the opportunity to read together members of the bill, to hear what it's about, what it says, and to judge themselves based on our debate whether it should be one way or another, as the NBS says or as they say. Sometimes the MPs of the opposition, gentlemen, in this National Assembly. Therefore, in Article 5 of this proposal, the law states – insurance business is the conclusion and execution of life insurance contracts, except mandatory social insurance. We offered an explanation to the gentlemen of the NBS. I see that this argument has not been accepted and I am sorry and I remind the People's Bank gentlemen that the MPs of the Progressive Party have voted here so far for 10 of the 289 amendments we have submitted so far. I hope this will be the eleventh, gentlemen, and then the twelveth, until 513. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16159	The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16160	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, NBS guests, fellow MPs, colleagues Zivkovic and Pavicevic have submitted an amendment to delete the name above the members and members of the 5th, of course, already known. Article 5 establishes the meaning of the insurance business involving life insurance and non-life insurance but not compulsory social insurance. The application of the Insurance Act provides for the mandatory demarcation of life insurance and non-life insurance operations by 31.12.2014, by imposing the same deadline for the entry into force of a new legal solution, which is materially different in this regard, which is the additional reason for the urgent procedure and the adoption of a new law. I hope colleagues Pavicevic and Zivkovic didn't know about this, so they probably wouldn't have submitted a amendment like this. In voting day, I won't support a amendment like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16161	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable presidents, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected NBS guests, we propose that our amendment be adopted, which states that Article 6. The bill needs to be deleted. Article 6 is about co-insurance. He's split into three bets. Here, I can also tell the citizens here now and remind the MPs or some perhaps for the first time to hear, because this is an emergency procedure all, that the insurance agreement can be concluded with several insurance companies that have agreed on common handling and risk distribution (secure). Then we have an extension of this Article 6 in two positions. Since I have noticed and continued to do so, there is continuity here in the speeches of the Members of the People, I have noticed now, for example. Mrs. Vlahovic, the fear that if this Article 6 is deleted, for example, to delete everything, to delete a complete legislative framework that is covered by the insurance issue. Just to remind the honourable Members of the people, and that's where they can point to what the NBS wrote. The National Bank wrote that if we delete this, it means we don't have any space. On the contrary, NBS wrote to us – over the last ten years, the insurance sector has been transformed, market discipline has been increased, new participants with majority foreign capital have entered the market, etc., and all of this is based on the Insurance Act, which already exists. This means that if our amendment to Article 6 is adopted, it won't all be like rubber, but we will still have the Insurance Act for which there is a positive assessment in one part, gentlemen from the NBS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16163	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16164	Mrs Dragutinović, I want to secure my assets, look at Article 1, where it is said – an insurance agreement can be concluded with several insurance companies that have agreed on joint handling and risk allocation, i.e. co-insurance. What does that mean? These insurance companies used to say to each other that one insurance company paid 5% of the compensation in the event of an insurance case and the other 95%. The insurance companies agreed to pay half the damage in the event of an insurance case. Those insurance companies have made a lot of arrangements. However, co-insurance does not mean an unknown, does not mean an interpretation of what perhaps insurance companies that have secured certain assets agreed on, but I am offering a precise definition that is in line with all insurance laws in the EU and countries in the environment. Co-insurance is the joint handling and distribution of risks between several insurance companies, in such a way that each insurance undertaking, indicated in the insurance policy, corresponds to the insurance undertaking for full compensation in the event of an insurance case. Then it's clear. I paid the insurance premium, I have an insurance policy. Two insurance companies are listed on the insurance policy and, people say, I can bend the cap. In the event of an insurance case, I choose from whom to collect all the damage, and as they have agreed on in their business relations, which are usually with the co-secured trust relations, that they will regulate your relationship with each other, it's none of my business, because I've charged total damage. Also, in the case of a court dispute, the matter is more than clear. I can sue one insurance company, I can sue another insurance company, I can sue both insurance companies. This definition that you offer in attitude 1 may be known, but only in part, even to the professional public, but in practice it creates confusion. I offer a solution that will completely eliminate this confusion, which will be very clear, very precise and that will accelerate the interest of potential insurance companies to secure their assets. I think by accepting this amendment, this would be affirmative for foreign investors and for companies and for individuals and for everyone, because in that case they would have security. Imagine what kind of security it is when I can secure my assets with one premium insurance with two insurance companies and choose from whom to collect the damages in case of an insurance case. That defines the amendment I suggested. The solution you have offered is, unfortunately very, very inaccurate and putting into danger a good law, a truly extraordinary law in all other provisions, that, with some inaccuracies referred to by the Law on Liabilities and the EU Directive, make the solution from the environment unclear and put potential insurance in the dilemma tomorrow, and in the event of a dispute, there will still be problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16165	The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and, of course, respected guests from the National Bank of Serbia, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted another amendment. This is the seventh in a row. Of course, logic says, on Article 7 of this bill, and Article 7. The proposal for an insurance law concerns resecuritisation operations. This is now, let me say, one more extensive member, so I'm not going to read to the citizens or to the MPs what it says, except for the first attitude, it's important to me. The first point is said: resecuritisation operations are the conclusion and execution of a resecuritisation contract that ensures an surplus of risk above the self-restraint of the insurance company is transferred to resecuritisation. We, of course, have also submitted an explanation, which is why we believe that Article 7 of this bill should be deleted, but, as is the order, I think, in our debates in the National Assembly here, I would also like to offer an additional argument for all those MPs who think they might be able to vote for the adoption of this amendment, but they are afraid that by voting "for" they would participate in a kind of obstruction of the work of the National Assembly. No, gentlemen, this isn't obstruction. For example, amendments to Article 7. Two things are important here. This is an attempt to implement the whole bill and, secondly, this is an attempt to work together to de-construct one poor way of working the executive government, and in this case, a poor approach to the debate on important proposals for the law of the National Bank of Serbia. Honorable gentlemen, it's not obstruction, destruction is the right time for what this debate is about today, and I think it's okay for us to participate in this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16167	The word is from Vice Governor Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16168	Dear People's MPs, of the 313 amendments submitted to this law, 281 has practically the same proposal and the same explanation. I did not notice that the MP questioned the quality of the law itself, but rather the approach to adoption, or procedure. I have never been a Parliamentarian, but I have read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I have seen that there are different reasons when the law can enter the emergency procedure. One of these reasons is to comply with EU rules. This reason is entirely, to say the reason why both this law and the Law on Payment Conditions comes by emergency procedure to the National Assembly. In doing so, if we want to be honest, we have passed two new laws. People who are MPs are listed when the laws are at stake and they are sufficient to read the law. In total, these two laws, because the other changes are really minor and they are quickly read, are 250 pages, 250 pages can be read in 10 days. So there is a legitimate reason for an emergency procedure, she writes in the Rules of Procedure - harmonising with EU rules. What's always important to me, did we get a better or worse product? We have exactly, well you said, the Insurance Act and it is true that this insurance law led to the fact that we have today's insurance companies...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16169	Time. You're limited, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16170	Nothing. I'll continue after the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16171	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16172	Thank you, Mrs. Dragutinović. In accordance with Article 7(1) of the resecuritisation business, you have defined it as though under resecuritisation operations the conclusion and execution of a resecuritisation contract, which ensures an surplus of risk above the self-restraint of the insurance company. Of course that's true, and I'm precisely because it's a professional termology, which, with a few additional words, could be very clear and precise to define, and because this termology is known only as an insurance profession, asked that it be defined in a way or in a similar way as defined by the Obligation Relations Act, and you stated in the explanation that this termology is known as the insurance profession and that it does not need to be further defined. My amendment reads – reassurance is to take the responsibility of the reassurant that, in the event of an insurance case taking place, he will assume on himself a part of the risk or the overall risk that is resecuritised, by granting the resecuritizer a part of the premium proportional to the part of the risk taken. If someone provides the property of an insurance company, the insurance company does not have the means to pay the total damage, it is necessary that the part that cannot cover it with its reosgurance assets with another insurance company. As a potential security guard, I'm interested in two things. To whom do I pay the premium and what is the amount of the premium, and in the event of an insurance case, who pays me the damage? There's the beginning and end of my interest. If I read Section 1 as you suggested, so – the resecuritisation business is the conclusion and execution of a resecuritisation contract that ensures an excess of the risk above the self-restraint of the insurance company is transferred to resecuritisation, I don't even know who I pay the premium to, whether they share the premium with each other and, in the event of an insurance case, who pays me the damage. As you suggested, this item 1 does not respond to two key and basic issues which are of interest to each insurance company. That's why I think my amendment gave a very elegant solution, and insurance companies, since, of course, I, because potential insurance companies pay the insurance premium, if there's no means to cover the entire security risk, the insurance company will resecuritize part of the risk to another insurance company and transfer it to him part of the premium that I've already paid him and I'm offering him who's going to pay the damage. This, in addition to this type of security, is important in the event of a possible dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16173	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 8 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, dear Mrs Dragutinovic, I am particularly pleased that you have been involved in the debate and in these amendments. For me, this is proof that we were creative, constructive within our dialogues, although our goal is to destructure poor government, respected gentlemen, and, of course, respected guests from the National Bank of Serbia. We have submitted an amendment to Article 8 which has the title – Types of life insurance and then here we have the lists. The types of life insurance are that and that, and at seven points, we have an explanation. Since Mrs Dragutinovic has been involved in the debate, I think it is very important that I explain some things about what Mrs Dragutinovic said, and as for, I think, our amendment to Article 8, Mrs Dragutinovic. So it's true that in Article 167. The Rules of Procedure, which define the emergency procedure, states that the law or draft law can be sent to the Assembly by emergency procedure if it concerns compliance with EU rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16175	In kind of life insurance, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16176	That's right, that's right, but it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16177	In kind of life insurance, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16178	I agree, Mrs Gojkovic, but I am now responding to Mrs Dragutinovic's intervention, which concerns me, and she has now confirmed to me Article 8. Bills of law - kind of life insurance. Two things are problematic, gentlemen, and that's what I think we can discuss here. It would be right for Mrs Dragutinovic to, for example, be in Article 281, and now these two members are connected, 8 and 281, Mrs Gojkovic, does not say that the provisions of the law will apply after six months of the date of entry into force. What kind of speed is that, Mrs. Dragutinovic? The second thing, members of the EU, from 238 to 255 only when we become a member of the EU, respected Mrs Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16179	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, following the intervention of the amendment promoter, Article 8. – life insurance types look like this in Serbia. If that amendment were to be adopted, life insurance would be like this. I am delighted with this amendment. Maybe it's hard to listen to, explain, etc., but this is how to read, when you read one, you read it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16181	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 9 of the amendment. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Gojkovic, dear Mrs Dragutinovic, I see that I have convinced you about the amendment to Article 8 and the honored guests of the NBS, I hope that I will be equally successful in convincing the MPs and related to our amendment to Article 9. The bill, which now concerns the kind of non-life insurance. It's one of the most common members of this bill. We have a list of which are types of non-life insurance and I only need one additional argument for the amendment to this article of the bill beyond what we have already written in our explanation for this amendment. I note that there is still fear in a number of MPs that if we agree today to delete Article 9 of this bill on non-life insurance, then this whole question will be like one white blank paper. It will not be, gentlemen and behold, if the MPs of the ruling majority, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, do not trust me who am here an opposition MP, I invite them to come to page 127, as the honored gentlemen sees, I have reached the last pages in reading this bill. On page 127, the text tabled by the National Bank states that this existing Insurance Act, which will apply even though we delete all members of this bill, that new participants with majority foreign capital entered the insurance market, developed new insurance services, increased levels of insurance protection, insurance users and third party damaged persons. We're not going to be on white paper, we're going to have a legislative framework.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16183	Thank you. You won't answer that amendment after you've used your time. You were talking about the second amendment. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16184	Madam President, Mrs Dragutinović, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS will of course not accept the removal of Article 9, because in this way a large group, or non-life insurance, would remain undefined in undefined frameworks. However, what is very symptomatic to me is that we heard from the amendment's promoter in the principle debate that he did not arrive, he failed to read beyond the first 125th and 387th pages of the bill. I believe in the creativity of the amendment promoters that by proposing such a large number of amendments, he has made himself now, not when it's time but now, reads one by one member of the law and takes the opportunity to actually read the whole bill by submitting amendments. We will sit patiently here today. We will patiently debate and wait patiently for the amendment's proposing to read the whole bill in the light of its amendments. I'm sure, ladies and gentlemen, when the amendment promoter is able to read all the 281st members of the law in some small hours today, in that he will explain them in an amendment, that he will understand that this is a good law. When he reads the law he will understand, I am sure that the amendment promoter will accept this law and this and the other four laws and will vote for it. I really believe in this kind of creativity that they'll get on time, read all the members and eventually vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16185	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16186	Dear Presidents, distinguished guests from the NBS, colleagues and fellow MPs, certainly this amendment is unacceptable. Confirmation of the words spoken by my colleague Babić, I will only confirm that I have read this law in detail and to commend that in points 14 and 9 of this Article, in point 14 of the loan insurance covered, that I do not list everything, you have defined and expanded and aligned precisely with EU security. Especially at point 16, where you paid attention to financial loss insurance covering financial losses, so all items are listed. The proof that the colleague who submitted the amendment had not read, is precisely this to compare himself to the previous law to see that it was expanded, that the larger coverage was what we had not had in insurance until now, since I spent four years as an insurance agent.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16187	The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16188	Dear President, Mrs Dragutinovic, I think that my colleagues overestimated the promoter for a simple reason, because I do not believe that they will be able to read the law at all, because it is obvious that 281 amendments are submitted with the idea that something should be deleted shows not only obstruction but shows one desire that you simply do not intend to improve the laws, nor do you have a constructive approach. So, I think that the motionary should be ignored at all, because it simply does not contribute to a constructive debate in this House. We are in favour of European laws, in these European laws we must discuss, according to the amendments, both the non-life insurance and the property that has been defined by this amendment. Therefore, such proposals should be ignored because they do not contribute to Serbia and that path towards the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16189	On behalf of the members and members of the 10th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16190	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the NBS, we have submitted an amendment to Article 10 of this Insurance Act, which has one name - groups and under insurance groups. And this is one large member of this bill, just an opening position to read, says – several types of insurance, depending on the links of the risk, i.e. the interests covered by insurance, are classified into the following groups. So we have a group of one -- life insurance, group two -- nonlife insurance. What do I think is important here? I agree that it is very important that we discuss seriously in the National Assembly all the draft laws and any amendment submitted by any MP. It's very important, I think, to read all 397 pages of text that is related to this bill. In one part, it concerns the very members of this bill, and then we have an explanation. I think it was very important and that a certain procedure was respected when this bill was passed, and Mrs Tabakovic told us two days ago here that she felt that since there was a public debate, we do not have to now and some serious debate in the Assembly. Dear Mrs Dragutinovic, I find that unacceptable. For me and I think for all Serbian citizens, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is our central political institution. The most serious debates we have to conduct right here in this institution, not treat it as a shortcut, as Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic told us here two days ago. This is one of the reasons why we have submitted 281 amendments to as many members of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16191	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16192	The Honorable Chairman, I listen carefully, of course, to the debate of this morning and here's to say this article 10. I believe that he could have submitted some constructive amendment, that maybe some things are being specified. I believe that it would be far more useful for citizens than to listen to people constantly submit amendments – it is deleted. Earlier, Mr Babic said that the applicant of the amendment, among other things, would probably read the law when all these amendments are passed, and I believe he will do something else, will regret and apologize to the citizens of Serbia for spending their money today, because he spends taxpayers' money and because he is not acting as a MP who, in the interests of citizens, should contribute to a constructive debate, not some kind of political obstruction or self-revelation. Indeed, let's say this particular article had a lot to deal with, there are some things that I don't, for example. They don't like it, but when you have one of these extremely unstructured discussions, then Serbian citizens can't get anything constructive, and they should because they're paying all of us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16193	The word is Dr. Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16194	Thank you. I would like to ask my predecessor and all future speakers on their own behalf and on behalf of our MPs, the Members of the SNS, of all MPs of this National Assembly, no longer to be able to comment on the reading of the law. I think we're all serious people here and there's no need for the professor to boast that he's been able to read the law and not just him, but anyone else. It is understood that we have come here as representatives of the people to read all the laws in the name of the people and in the name of justice and of the law, and in accordance with our possibilities we contribute to improving and applying this law in the best possible way. Whether this law, this article, will be applied, amended and whether the law will come into force, depends solely on this Assembly and these MPs and the NB is merely the legislator, and the National Assembly is the place where laws are passed and laws are spoken of. I repeat, there is no need to point out that someone has read the law. I think everyone here did it and we should put an end to it once. I'm a member of the 10th is very logical and follow-up. 8 and 9 which define non-life insurance and life insurance in groups and subgroups so that the use and application of the law can be better applied and implemented and, of course, the amendment to Article 10 cannot be accepted. Once again, thank you for understanding and pleasant.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16195	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 11 of the amendment. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16196	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Dragutinovic and the esteemed guest from the NBS, here's a quote to imagine ourselves a little bit about our work here. It says – gentlemen, there were also words about how laws are being made in our country, how much this is done without previous studies, by heart and reach. Dear gentlemen, this quote is spoken in the National Assembly of Serbia by Mr. Jovan Skerlic on June 1st 1912. Dear gentlemen, it's as if today this man has spoken this sentence. Is it possible that MPs of the Progressive Party, first of all, who make this ruling majority do not imagine how it is possible not to respond to this attitude by gentlemen from the NBS and to take at least one small step in relation to what was the assessment of the state of our parliamentary life over 100 years ago. Dear gentlemen, these amendments of ours, of course, are directed at specific members. Article 11 concerns compulsory traffic insurance, but there is a broader picture of our work together, and a wider picture is being viewed, gentlemen, in what Jovan Skerlic said in the Assembly a few years ago, and what we can absolutely reflect on our work here. My idea and the idea of Mr. Zivkovic is that we, as MPs, respected presidents of the National Assembly, provide a kind of resistance to such a bad approach and say - we have moved for these 100 years in our parliamentary life at least a little, and not to describe instead the National Assembly of Governors as one shortcut in which no serious public debate should be held, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16197	The word is Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16198	I must tell you that you were not creative, because I have seen amendments of the same and identical amendments with an identical explanation before. I also do not like to refer MPs in the National Assembly to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but they clearly write the reasons for the urgent procedure and write – to comply with EU regulations. It does not say – due to the urgent application of the law in line with EU law. Just to conclude, the NBS is ready for law enforcement, but that doesn't mean that it's ready and the industry, and it's better to have the law so we can get the industry ready instead of waiting for the industry to prepare itself, and then we can pass the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16199	The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16200	Madam President, I sincerely believed that the amendment promoter would skip Article 11, i.e. not predicting the erasure of Article 11. Article 11 refers to mandatory traffic insurance, determines and regulates the specific law – traffic insurance. You know, when someone drives lightning and lightning comes to the Assembly or someone drives overpriced old timers as one of the amendment's pronouns, so the least I can expect is to leave that insurance in traffic is mandatory insurance so that in case someone in the parking lot or somewhere accidentally damages that overpriced old timer or those overpriced old timers they're driving... As a man who drives an average car 10 years old, like most people in Serbia, I advocate that there is an arrangement of the area, that we do not enter anarchy, into chaos unless there is mandatory traffic insurance. What's that gonna mean? Two people who happen to be in traffic have some ink that may prove to their fists who's guilty and who's not, who's breaking some regulation and who's not. That's why I'm calling and I think it's consistent with the lightning, consistent with the old timers, consistent with all the expensive things they consume, which could be damaged and threatened by accepting such an amendment from the Proposer. Mr. Pavicevic and Mr. Zivkovic, I invite them to give up such an amendment because of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16201	The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16202	Thank you, Madam President. I certainly wouldn't have come forward after my colleagues who provided more than clear reasons if I didn't have another motive. I'd really like to call for seriousness in today's debate. You know, a man can expect anything and everything, but that he will hear in the explanation of why it takes mandatory insurance in traffic to erase, a quote from Jovan Skerlic a hundred years ago, I don't know if this hall has ever experienced – what Jovan Skerlic said a hundred years ago on the subject – mandatory traffic insurance. That's not all, either. See for example. in writing, the text of the amendment to Article 1 of the same applicant is literally submitted in order to align the text of the amendment with regard to the defined objective. I don't know if this is the kind of joke she's seen, and I have to call for seriousness here. It really states here that the applicant for the amendment has submitted an amendment to Article 1, so he seems to have missed the goal and now ten members of the law are trying to delete to achieve the objective and bring his amendment to Article 1. I would ask that we do this properly, to pay attention to the place where we are and to the seriousness of the opportunity we are in, and this amendment and this kind of thing to refuse anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16203	The amendment, which was added after Article 11, is the name of the member and Article 11a was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16204	The President-in-Office, honored guests, respected colleagues and colleagues, our amendment is to Article 11 where we propose that Article 11a be added. Article 11a reads – Voluntary pension insurance is an insurance which, under the contract, can provide rights for the case of age, disability, death and other risks of insurance in accordance with the specific law. So, we do not understand why this insurance bill leaves out voluntary retirement insurance, because we think this is a purely technical amendment with the proposal, knowing that, in the current Insurance Act, Articles 11, 12 and 13, it is envisaged that, in addition to mandatory traffic insurance, which we have now listened to, voluntary health insurance, there is also voluntary retirement insurance. In the explanation that we have received, with the obvious consistent attitude and committees and the proposing that one such proposed technical amendment be rejected, it is in fact proving this approach in which the MPs who have submitted hundreds of amendments here are resented – it is deleted. We have hundreds of answers here, no matter what the amendment is, whether it is – is deleted, whether with a technical proposal or essential, the simple answer is – the amendment is rejected. So, we in the opposition obviously can't count on a constructive approach, and I think this amendment is purely technical. We'll file for it, and we've already submitted some amendments that should essentially amend this law in one part of the bill, but I think it's perfectly logical that you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16205	The word is Diana Dragutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16206	We have considered this amendment with due care. Firstly, the European Directive is clear on the issue of the type of insurance. On matters of type of insurance, voluntary retirement insurance is not included in this law. So we've already passed the Pension Funds Act, and the current Insurance Act was passed before this Pension Fund Act, so it's not relevant.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16207	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 12 of the amendment. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable National Assembly President, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the National Bank of Serbia, we have proposed to delete a member of the 12th draft law, which concerns voluntary health insurance, counting on the fact that if this member of this bill is deleted, it will not mean that we will not have a regulated legislative framework for this area. I am very surprised that the associations of individual MPs to John Skerlic's speeches in our National Assembly hundreds of years ago are not some categories and concepts that we are discussing here today, for example, mentioned in Article 12, but associations of Jovan Skerlic are lightning, old timer and similar things. Dear gentlemen, I believe you speak John Skerlic a hundred years ago should be read by every MP here. These were very serious speeches, well-prepared, very well-arranged, which when you read, and I read every one, as I read all the bill's proposals, as if you're looking at these discussions today. I'm just wondering how in a hundred years we haven't made it, right here today, let's make a move forward. Since I consider this to be a very important reading for our discussions, even today here, here I am, this copy of myself today, for our good work in this National Assembly, to present to the president of the National Assembly, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. I think that it should also be part of our dialogue here, to manage, respected gentlemen, some ideals, some principles, not lightning, old-timers or any other calculations, and all with one goal, to protect the dignity of the National Assembly, which is the sanctuary of our political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16209	Thank you. I can't accept a gift if it's expensive. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16210	Madam President, the Rules of Procedure in Rule 106(1) have been broken. – The speaker can only talk about the agenda point. I respect everything Mr. Jovan Skerlic has done, but if we turn the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia into a place to advertise certain MPs, where the collection of Mr. Skerlic's speech, which I don't know who made it, I don't know who betrayed it, I don't know who signed it, so we wave all day, I can only take it as a commercial. Are we going to charge in the National Assembly for the commercials of the Members of the People? What do you think when an esteemed colleague of Nash Gally answers his words to say, "Here, I've betrayed, I've looked at a new CD, and I respect everything he's done and I'm enjoying the music he's creating." What do you think the distinguished Mr. Orlic or Professor Dr. Martinovic or Mrs. Aleksandra Tomic also bring their readings or readings they have done and thus advertise in the National Assembly? With this kind of speech, Mr. Pavicevic is made of the National Assembly of fleas, we make something that is not. We're not talking about laws, we're not talking about law enforcement. I listened very carefully to those two minutes earlier, only in one thing, quoting a member to whom the delete amendment applies, and everything else was advertising. Here, I invite you, please, Mrs. Gojkovic, who betrayed that reading? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: "Official Messenger"! So, a commercial for someone who wrote it, who betrayed something like that. Please, don't make all this advertising out of the National Assembly, make something that isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16211	Time. (Zoran Babic, from the post: You should not vote.) I don't need a vote. Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16212	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll read Article 12, since we haven't heard it. He says – Voluntary health insurance is a contract-based insurance that can guarantee the right to health insurance. I deeply believe that even the MPs who have proposed this amendment do not believe that insurance is possible and that the functioning of insurance companies is possible and that they do not have health insurance in their work. Health insurance is a financial service and a financial derivative that lasts on the insurance company market for over 300 years. This law and no insurance company could work unless they had this aggregate. Whether it is voluntary or compulsory, health insurance is a civil fluid, and by accepting such an amendment, MPs are right to say that the law would be impossible. Yes, it would be impossible, but one civilizational fluid in operation and in performing the functions of insurance would be abolished. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has no right to do so first in economic practice and to bring its citizens into a worse position than others.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16213	The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16214	Thank you, President. Dear President, Madam Vice Governor with fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, this amendment should certainly be rejected, but I really do not understand what the creativity and constructiveness of the promoters of these amendments are. Article 12 makes it very clear that voluntary health insurance can be provided on the basis of a contract to provide health insurance rights, in accordance with specific laws. This again adds to the fact that my colleagues have also stated, that I am really questioning whether the amendmentr has even read this law and had insight into the other laws that were passed in this assembly? So, once again, this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16215	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16216	Mrs Dragutinovic, I will do one of the digressions before explaining this amendment, in order to make my intention clear. In Article 11, the Proposer stated: "Mandatory traffic insurance is determined and governed by a special law". That's right. There's no definition of mandatory traffic insurance, it'll regulate a special law. In Article 12, voluntary health insurance, you could also specify yourself – voluntary health insurance is governed by a special law. Over. This is how you got yourself into some kind of ludicrous that, in my opinion, should be clearer and more precise. You are proposing to define voluntary health insurance and insurance, which can provide health insurance rights under the contract, in accordance with the special law, which is true, but my amendment seems to me to offer a better solution, and it says: “Voluntary health insurance is an insurance which, under the contract, can provide health insurance rights to non-secured persons, under the law governing compulsory health insurance or greater rights than those provided under that law, and in accordance with special law.” Then it's clear what voluntary health insurance is. Article 12 should have been arranged either as Article 11, or, if you have not already referred, if it is not only a reference norm but a norm which first defines what health insurance is but, in my opinion, does not define it in a clear and precise way, because whoever reads this, it is not clear that it is in fact the insurance of those persons who want to provide health insurance and are not required, under the Mandatory Insurance Act, to conclude with the Health Insurance Fund a mandatory insurance contract, or, if they already have that health insurance contract, they want to achieve some larger scope of rights, which is regulated by a special law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16217	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 13 of the amendment. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16218	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable National Assembly President, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and guests from the National Bank of Serbia, we have submitted an amendment to Article 13 of this Bill, which concerns supervision of the performance of insurance. This article is made up of two attitudes. Now I'm just going to comment on the first attitude, and in that sense, it's important to me and to read it here. It reads: “The supervision of the performance of the insurance activity is carried out by the National Bank of Serbia, in accordance with this law and the law governing the position, organisation, authority and function of the National Bank of Serbia – in order to protect the rights and interests of insurance and other insurance users, which also performs other tasks prescribed by this law, which contribute to the preservation and strengthening of the stability of the financial system. “ It is obvious, therefore, that the key role in controlling the performance of the insurance activity is entrusted to the National Bank of Serbia and I now have a real connection with our explanation for our amendment. Our amendment to this article concerns disrespect for the procedure, gentlemen. If the procedure regarding the adoption of this Bill is not respected, how will it be respected in the framework of supervision of the performance of the insurance activity, I wonder? We can't do everything here on a shortcut. We have to take a detour sometime, so we can approach the problem more thoroughly. I am very sorry that it is not known here for the publication of the "Official Messenger" on the speeches of Jovan Skerlic in the Assembly between 1912 and 1914, the publisher is "Official Messenger". And that reading would be very useful to all of us here for all of our discussions. The book can't be an association for flea market, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16219	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16220	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for some historical truth and for the sake of political honesty and political honesty, Jovan Skerlic was, when we talk about political definition, his timely dissident of the Social Democratic Party led by Dimitrij Tucovic. If I'm not mistaken, Mr Pavicevic, you belong to a political party that has nothing to do with social democracy and ideas represented by Jovan Skerlic at the time. Jovan Skerlic was known for an anecdote. He was a positive literary critic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16221	Please, MP, you've come to the amendment, not to have a debate about John Skerlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16222	If you'll excuse me, I'll explain now. I'm just explaining the amendment. So he was known for an anecdote. Since he was a well - known literary critic, then some writers of that time transferred to him how easy it was to criticize and it was much harder to write a book. Then he said, yes, you're right, I can't write books, but I can write good literary reviews. Also, I can't lay an egg, but I can tell an egg from a cat. The Serbian Progressive Party considers your amendments to be a stalemate, Mr Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16223	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16224	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear that this amendment will be rejected, amendment to article a13. This law, which reads, is different from being “expunged. ” Article 13 of this Act regulates a very significant area, which is the supervision of the performance of insurance activities and requires that the NBS exclusively supervises this activity, in accordance with the law. But the proposer of this amendment doesn't seem to care very much, they don't care much, they want to write the amendment in the text "expect", so they can eventually get a few more minutes to collect political points and what they care about. It is important for them to get a chance to talk a little more, that, if possible, they insult the National Assembly, insult the MPs, call the congregation a flow water heater, a sink, an emissary to call cattle that roar and similar things that are their own. It speaks of them, talking about their understanding of politics and dealing with this job, but citizens will know that rewards in the next election. Thank you, and I hope we reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16225	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above members and Article 14 of the amendment. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs. Dragutinovic, you were a little involved in the debate, so you retired, I don't know what the reason is, I hope it's not the performances of SNS MPs and respected guests from the NBS. We have, of course, submitted, as we have announced, the amendment to Article 14 of this draft law concerning the administrative procedure. Of course, in the first position of this member, the National Bank has certain responsibilities again. For example, it states here that the NBS decides to issue, suspend or withdraw licences, issue, cease validity, or withdraw consent from this law, on the measures to be imposed in the supervisory procedure in accordance with this law and on other matters under its jurisdiction under the prescribed law. This content of this attitude itself, to repeat here once again, and this also concerns some other members of this bill, would not be so problematic that there is not one basic problem that we have cited as a problem and in an explanation for the amendment to Article 14 of this bill. This problem concerns respect for one element of every modern democracy, and it seems to me that we here should strive to be a modern democracy, which is a procedure. I am sorry that Mr. Martinovic, who seems to know some elements of Mr. Skerlic's biography, did not read the speeches of Jovan Skerlic. If he had read them, he would have noticed some pictures of what the Progressive Party is doing in this assembly a hundred years ago. I think it's a defeating painting, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16227	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am prepared to vote in favour of the amendment of the previous motion, but on one condition, if I am to vote and adopt this amendment, to read to me the text of the amendment, or the adopted article, if we adopt that amendment. If that works, I'll vote for all his amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16229	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16230	To the same member, our proposal is to delete in Article 14(4). Here's the reason for that. So, Article 14. The draft law defines the administrative procedure and position 4 in the administrative dispute against the resolutions set out in Article 1, the court cannot resolve a administrative matter for which the resolution of this law has established the jurisdiction of the NBS. The National Bank of Serbia shall, by way of a solution, decide on the issuing, termination of the validity, that is to say, the withdrawal of the permit and the termination of the validity, that is to say, the withdrawal of the consent from the measures imposed in the supervisory procedure, in accordance with this law and on other issues under its jurisdiction under the law. So, by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 36 provides for the right to equal protection and legal remedies. Equal protection of rights against courts and other state bodies, public authorities and AP authorities and local self-government units is guaranteed. Each person shall have the right to appeal or other remedy against a decision to decide on his or her right, obligation or public interest. So here we see that this member of the NBS has the right to withdraw permission or take action against different societies without their right to seek justice in court. I don't think this way we can accept that the NBS Act can be stronger than the Constitution, because this is not in accordance with the Constitution. I ask you to delete and adopt this amendment and delete the position of the fourth member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16231	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Article 15 of the amendment. The word is Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16232	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Chairman, Honored Mrs. Dragutinovic and the Honored Guests of the NBS, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 15 of this Bill on the Protection of Rights, the interest of the users of the insurance service. I just have to say that I have now heard from citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following this debate via Twitter, and they have asked me to explain these amendments a little bit slower, so that citizens can follow the discussion and have one additional instruction that the MPs of the Progressive Party report as much as possible to comment on these amendments, including the amendment to Article 15, where we say that Article 15 should be deleted. Article 15 makes four attitudes, and now I won't be able to read these articles in two minutes, so I suggest to the citizens that they find this bill on the National Assembly site and that they follow this sitting. I would like to remind all the People's Messengers, and especially those who wonder or care, what will happen if all this is erased, that there will be nothing. I repeat again what was probably prepared here by Mrs Dragutinovic, who is present or just and perhaps Mrs Tabakovic, they said, there is also no bill, or law when adopted, there is a legislative framework for the supervision of the activity of insurance and the basis of this legislative framework makes the Insurance Act which has had many good effects, some shortcomings have been observed, and then in relation to these shortcomings, we believe that an appropriate way, in relation to, first of all, to this National Assembly, to respond, because of an inappropriate manner, we believe that this law should be repealed, respected gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16233	Replica has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16234	I am now, Mr. Chairman, asking myself what Mr. Skerlic would say if he could hear the previous speaker. In the first or second sentence, he put a question mark in the National Assembly and said -- God, which is why the MPs of the Progressive Party are, and I will inform him that this is the Serbian Progressive Party, reporting for word and discussion. Isn't the National Assembly the source of democracy, the source of debate and where it's spoken, but in the follow-up to that series of introductions of some dictatorship and hatred of different opinions, we were warned yesterday if we spoke, and today we are reminded why we appear in the amendments. I think it's against the principle of democracy. Somehow it relies on that amputation of freedom in insurance, amputating freedom for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The values that are dangerous for a society are being promoted, and I will inform the applicant of the amendments, I will inform the Serbian public, the MPs of the SNS, I am very grateful to them and because they are most valuable in the presence of the National Assembly, which can be looked at by some empty benches in front of the amendment promoters, which are active in this and that they have their opinions that will courageously, with dignity, bring us out of the speaker of the National Assembly and not one argument, not one disdainment of the National Assembly, nor ourselves in such matters, and in this business will stop us and prevent us, because that is what Serbian citizens expect of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16235	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Vesenović, Mrs. Dragutinović, I know you are in the application, but the Rules of Procedure have priority, I must give the word to Mr. Vesenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16236	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 101. The Rules of Procedure and I hope you have an understanding. Please take advantage of your right to set a break. We could have understood by now because of the fact that there is no governor of the NBS here who is the most responsible and competent to defend the law and to answer, when it comes to amendments, whether or not they will accept them. We could understand that by noon, Ms. Governor wasn't, it was possible that she had meetings regarding the fall of a dinar course affecting the standard of citizens and any other issues concerning the very poor work of the NBS, but now we can't have any more understanding, because these laws are very important. I ask you to take a break and determine what is and where is the governor of the NBS and whether she will be able to appear today, to participate in this debate, or in an environment that is not suitable for the National Assembly, because it is normal for the minister to participate in the work when defending the laws, and normally it would be that the governor is here today. She's the first time she's proposed since this council, the law, and she's not here today. I'm asking you to take a break and see if the governor can come today, and if not, we can postpone this session for the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16237	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. As well as I do, you know that here is Vice Governor NBS, you know very well that these days in Belgrade are world leaders, that there are a lot of meetings, that the governor of the NBS certainly has a lot of meetings and in organisation of what's going on in Belgrade, around the Forum, so there's a vice governor who's very competent to answer all your questions and please respect that. The word is Dr. Diana Dragutinović, Deputy Governor of the NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16238	Since the same amendment is repeated from one minute to the next, I would like to repeat one sentence after that amendment, which is that the procedure has not been really violated, I again refer the MP to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. What I agree with MP Pavicevic is that there really is a legal framework that regulates the activity of insurance. The legal framework has led to today's insurance sector participating with 5% in the financial sector's overall activity and that, after the insurance premium, the social product insurance premium participates with 1.8% of the social product. This data best says the insurance sector is underdeveloped. So there are times when, regardless of the legal framework, a certain legal framework is a restriction on further development of the insurance sector. That's what happened in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16239	Thank you, Mrs. Dragutinović. The word has been made by MP Milan Novakovic, following the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16240	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice Governor, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, this Article 15. The law on insurance, protection of rights and the interest of users of insurance services clearly defines the role of the National Bank in, I say, arbitration between the two parties in the event of certain disputes. I am going back to the fact that the amendment promoter didn't read this article until the end, or he didn't understand it, or he didn't understand it, or all of these so far, since the rubber is a better means of expressing its opinion than the pen, so we're also not going to accept this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16241	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Master Dejan Capo. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget, the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as opinions of the National Bank of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Here's a word for Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16242	We have submitted an amendment to Article 15(2). The proposal for a law on insurance is changed and said - The National Bank of Serbia is acting on the complaint of users of insurance services related to the work of the insurance company and the protection of the rights of the interests of those persons. The Serbian Insurance Association is intervening in resolving the damaged requirement to prevent the formation of a security dispute. We have submitted this amendment for the reason that the NBS intervenes in everything. Therefore, the inadequate solution contained in the proposal is to take an old provision on the transmission of the NBS to resolve the compensation requirement in order to prevent the existence of a dispute based on insurance insurance insurance insurance, etc. The two spheres of peaceful dispute resolution, the process of objecting to insurance companies' work, insurance brokerage companies, insurance companies, law firms in the insurance of legal entities referred to in Article 98(2), as well as the process of intermediation in dispute resolution are NBS. Such a solution contributes to the concentration of too much power in the hands of the NBS, and for this reason we have submitted this amendment. More importantly, the question is, how much will it be able to carry out such a significant task at such a sensitive stage of the development of the intervention institute, unknown and insufficiently adapted to our legal culture and psychology of our people? We believe that there must be some more suitable institution to introduce such a significant institution into the legal life of an insurance institution, and we believe that the amendment, and we suggest that, in the light of the relevant experiences that are in some other countries in the environment, it is the association of Serbia's insurance companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16243	Thank you, Mrs. Papuga. The word has a vice governor. Here you go, Dr. Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16244	Dear MPs, so this amendment has not been accepted because the insurance association is not a neutral party, so the role of someone of interest is not good to be a mediator.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16245	Thank you, Mrs. Dragutinović. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman of Mr Bečić, the Honorable Mrs Dragutinovic and the Honored Guests of the NBS, Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted the amendment to Article 16. Proposal for a insurance law concerning the register of data. I'm also sorry that citizens can't even hear this member here as a whole right now, but they can read it safely in the right place, because it's important that we seriously approach the content of each member and this bill. One question has been asked here just a moment ago, what would Mr. Skerlic say, for example, about an amendment to article 16 of this bill a hundred years ago? It can serve here as an additional argument for the adoption of our amendment. At all, gentlemen, whenever the government called on us this year, she invited us to put us in front of a final act and simply take things into knowledge. Here today, the NBS is doing it, and here I am now also arguing about a member of the 16th bill. When Mr. Babic asks, what would Skerlic say? Here, I tell him what Skerlic said and he could do it here today just repeat that he's alive. That's why my proposal, Mrs Dragutinovic, was respected, my proposal is the following, here, about the amendment to Article 16 of this bill. Since our arguments are very convincing, no matter what side you approach the debate over this bill, to each member, or to Article 16, my suggestion to you is not to act as Government here, not to put us before the final act, but to withdraw these bill proposals, and then, by regular procedure, to send the bill to the Assembly in order to discuss them properly and to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16247	Thank you. The word is Dr. Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16248	Dear Chairman, honored guests, fellow MPs, citizens, at first let me say that the Assembly is neither called by the NBS nor by the Government, but by the President of the National Assembly, and that should be known by the honourable MP, a colleague before me. What's very important to say is that if someone doesn't have arguments, it was before Skerlic and after Skrelic, it's going to be in the future, he's going to raise his voice, and that's exactly what's happening in this assembly. I'd really like to ask my colleague, I think we're all hearing ourselves well enough to take care of it, if there aren't enough arguments, then don't get up to talk or talk normally according to the dignity of this congregation. It is simply amazing if we are talking about honesty and honesty that someone is even proposing to delete Article 16 relating to a data register where it is clearly defined that the NBS is running a data register on insurance companies and resecuritisation companies which have issued a licence to carry out insurance operations, i.e. resecuritisation operations with all the necessary data. It shall also keep a register of insurance brokerage companies, insurance representation companies and insurance representatives who have issued a licence to carry out insurance activities, i.e. insurance representation operations, as well as all data related to those participants in those operations. Simply, without this data register, this law and at all many other laws could not function, the bank could not function, the payment system and everything else and the proposal to delete such a Article 16 from the law simply talks and talks enough about the proposings themselves. I repeat again, whoever has no arguments, don't get up to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16249	Thank you. The word is by MP Vuceta Toskovic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16250	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice Governor, the MPs, I do not see here any reason that in this Article 16 where it is "expunged" because there is exactly what the National Bank should be doing, but there is a feeling that the amendment's proposer has miswritten 280 and some amendments because the Ginnis Committee does not accept such records, so it is in vain, so I would suggest that these amendments be made as soon as possible and that this job is finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16251	Thank you, Mr. Toskovic. The word has been given by MP Mirko Krlić, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16252	Dear Chairman, I think that the amendment's proposal in its text gives us the best arguments for which the amendment should be rejected. I am very glad that we have the great John Skerlic among us today. Jovan Skerlic did write some of the most important literary criticisms, as Mr Martinovic said, but he also wrote theatre criticisms and was an exceptional public scene expert, a public performance. If he were alive today, as the amendment promoter said, he would, above all, draw his attention that this is the high home of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16253	Mr. Krlic, you didn't get a chance and a reason for the replica, but to speak according to the amendment. Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16254	I'm done. The Faculty of Drama Arts is located in New Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16255	Thank you. The names above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the respected Mrs. Dragutinovic and the honored guests of the National Bank of Serbia, I think it's okay to address each other here with one respect. Zoran Zivkovic and I also submitted an amendment to Article 17 of this Bill, which concerns the ban on the use of the concept of insurance and reinsurance. This may be the place to stay on the content of a member of the law because the member writes: “The concept of insurance/reassurance is derived from that concept in his business name or name can be entered in the register of the competent authority and used in legal traffic only by a person who has obtained the permission of the National Bank of Serbia in accordance with this law”, if we adopt it, of course, “and another person can register it, or use it in legal traffic only if it is explicitly permitted by another law.” I now have two additional arguments here I think for an amendment to Article 17. First of all, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, I must say here, having heard one remark, has announced at its session that this is an amendment submitted in accordance with the rules of our National Assembly. Therefore, there is no reason to doubt the validity of this amendment in a legal sense. The second argument, which is very important to me here, and here I am also focusing on the fears that Mrs Vlahovic, Mrdakovic Todorovic and Mrs Tomic said here. Be careful, gentlemen, I am in agreement, the government is putting us before the final act, the National Bank is now in terms of Article 17, for example, but we, MPs, should then resist it and reject the draft laws that have been created on the basis of such access by the National Bank of Serbia now respected gentlemen and Mrs Tomic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16257	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The People's Messenger Nenad Nikolic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16258	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, since it is not enough for seven months for the amendments to read 260 pages of the law from the financial set, I am now going to do what my fellow amendment speaker just did, I will read another article that they want to delete. ‘The concept of insurance/reassurance, i.e. the concept derived from that concept, may be entered in the register of the competent authority in its business name or name and used in legal traffic only by a person authorised by the National Bank of Serbia in accordance with this law, and the other person may enter it in that register or use it in legal traffic only if he is explicitly allowed to do so by other law’. So, respected chairman, fellow amendment promoters, I'm sure you don't want everyone to be able to use the term insurance and legal reassurance without any permission from the National Bank of Serbia. The assessment of how you were when you were in power was made by the citizens in the election. The assessment of how you behave in the opposition, I'm afraid, will be much worse for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16259	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 18th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16260	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, respected Mrs. Dragutinovic, respected gentlemen from the National Bank of Serbia, Zoran Zivkovic and I also submitted an amendment to Article 18, which has a name above the member, which reads: "The application of the law governing companies and other laws." Dear gentlemen, two things I must say as a sort of argument for this amendment to Article 18. It's a bill of law. First of all, in our argument, and now I'm focusing first and foremost on Mrs Dragutinovic, we are referring to a member of our Constitution that is very important for the analysis of Article 18. The bill, which concerns relations between the National Bank of Serbia and the Serbian Parliament. Here's what it says in Article 95, what we know, I suppose, but one thing that seems to be around here: "The National Bank of Serbia is the central bank of the Republic of Serbia, it is independent and," we are now coming to a work that is bypassed here in the accession of the National Bank of Serbia, "belongs to the supervision of the National Assembly of which and answers", and here people from the National Bank of Serbia appear as if the reverse situation is, and with the support of a number of MPs, which I do not understand. As regards the second argument in relation to our amendment to Article 18, I must also say to Mr Nikolic, for example, who had some doubts as to what would happen when we delete Article 18, nothing terrible will happen, because Mrs Dragutinovic can confirm that we will only return to the application of the existing Insurance Act, which we have already found to have both positive and negative consequences, but in relation to the negative seas the proper procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16261	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has the vice governor of the National Bank Dr Diana Dragutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16262	Thank you. The procedure is respected. There is a reason for urgent treatment, the reason is clearly stated and I have repeated it several times.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16263	Thank you, Mrs. Dragutinović. On behalf of the members and members of the 19th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, respected Mrs. Dragutinovic, the honored guests of the National Bank of Serbia, I am pleased that Mrs. Dragutinovic is now again participating in our debate in relation to the diversity of the arguments we use here to challenge the adoption of this bill, and here is now in relation to Article 19. It's a proposal for a law on insurance. In fact, Article 19 concerns the principle of business. It states: “The insurance company, the reinsurance company, the insurance brokerage company, the insurance representation company and the insurance agent are obliged to carry out their work in accordance with law, general acts, business policy acts, insurance profession rules and actuarial professions, good business practices and business ethics.” Then there is a second point: ‘The person in Article 1 shall be obliged to operate in accordance with the precautionary and safe conduct principle’. Mrs Dragutinović, the procedure has been broken and this article I'm talking about now, which is a member of 19th because we cited this breach of procedure here and Mrs Tabakovic and she herself accepted that it was true. She told us this way about this article, for example – We did not have a chance to come here, to the Assembly, with a proposal to amend and supplement this law, but since we have a broader work to prepare a new one, we have decided not to make a shortcut, not to come twice for saving time. Well, respected Mrs Dragutinovic, the Serbian Parliament cannot be viewed as an institution that needs to be bypassed due to time savings. On the contrary, the most time we need to spend right in the congregation to get to the best possible laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16265	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16266	From the time of the parliamentary group, count me the time I'm going to use. I could also accept Mr Pavicevic's argument, but article 19 regulates that persons entrusted with the means of the insurance agreement should deal with those funds. Deleting this member brings one anarchy into an insurance company. If we don't have the supervision of the National Bank, if we don't have these principles provided for in Article 19, we're going to put in a very unfavourable position insurance companies. This law is not written for insurance companies, but for those who are insured, and that should be a priority. If we leave out this member and we run out of principles and no financial supervision by the Central Bank, then insurance companies can open up other companies, daughters, where they will pump up money, and then citizens will have to charge their own costs through the court. That is the difference between us and the promoter of this amendment. It is in our interest to protect the citizens and other insurance companies, their health, their property, and not just to do the part about politics. I agree that the Assembly is a place where we deal with politics, among other things, but I think that MPs as bearers of the sovereignty of citizens have the interests of citizens first, not their own political interest. That's the difference between us and those who submit such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16267	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. On Chapter 2, the title of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name of the member and Article 20 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Ms Dragutinović and the Honored Guests of the NBS, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted another amendment that provides for the erasure of all this writings here – the insurance and reinsurance society, Section 1, below that common provisions, then the carrying out of insurance and reinsurance operations, and then all five views of Article 20, as recorded in the Insurance Law proposal. One of the reasons why we feel it is necessary to do as we propose is also the subject of Article 2. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which Mr. Arsic mentioned earlier, as regards the institution of sovereignty in our country. Please, Mrs Dragutinović, the Constitution is sacred to us in the National Assembly, and in the Constitution, to remind all gentlemen, including Mr Arsic, writes - sovereignty comes from citizens who hold a referendum, a national initiative and through their freely elected representatives. That's us, gentlemen. Paragraph 2 states - no state body, no political organisation, group or individual can claim sovereignty from citizens, nor establish power beyond the free will of citizens. Since we are freely elected representatives of citizens, of whom sovereignty encourages me, I believe that one of our most common tasks here is to take care of the procedure, which means respect for the institutions and the rule of law, because that respects the sovereignty of our country, which is citizens. I believe that this approach that Zoran Zivkovic and I are applying is precisely what we are doing – respecting Serbia's citizens as bearers of sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16269	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic as an authorised representative, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16270	Mr. Chairman, I would ask you to inform Mr. Pavicevic, as bearer of the sovereignty of citizens, of a part of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that he and his colleague Zoran Zivkovic and the political party on whose list the elections were lost.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16271	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16272	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, purely for information, this is what a member of the law reads after the amendment, if they would adopt Mr Pavicevic's amendment. These amendments are difficult to understand, and they are easy to read, but they are not able to read me any of the solutions he has proposed. So this quality of their amendments is seen from what absolutely cannot be read the text of their amendments if we adopt it. About a member would read like this. It is a quality worthy of an academic honesty and of a professor teaching at the university and of the quality of their amendments is a picture in the National Assembly. I ask the cameramen of the state of television to show that no MP from the list on which Mr Pavicevic was on can listen to the explanation of such amendments, and this speaks enough about the quality and proposal of the amendment and the proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16273	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 21 of the amendment. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Honored Mrs Dragutinovic and the Honored Guests of the NBS, Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted the amendment to Article 21 of this Bill proposal. I've only got one addition to the argument we've already submitted to this amendment. In submitting this amendment to Article 21. We have been guided by the bill by direction towards certain political ideals, which I believe we should all be directed here. These are ideals: respect for institutions, respect for procedures, rule of law and above all honesty in our work. I must say that we have been guided specifically by this Article 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with one note. Since SNS MPs are taking part in the debate and there was only one question -- which is the amendment, surely someone is failing to cope with the sea of amendments tabled by the New Party MPs. Of course, it would have been good if SNS MPs had submitted so many amendments, because that would mean that as MPs in this National Assembly, we are finally resisting an executive authority that does not adhere to the procedure. So, the amendment is to Article 21, with one note, first of all, to Mr. Arsic. Citizens are carriers of sovereignty, and this is where sovereignty is performed through their freely elected representatives. As much as one of us won votes in the election, citizens through us exercise sovereignty and I as one of 250 am equal here, with all the other 249. In that spirit we should have a debate here, Mrs Dragutinovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16275	Thank you. The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16276	I fully agree in that part that we are fully equal, but I do not agree in that part that citizens did not give an opinion on who should lead the Republic of Serbia. That's the difference between me and the previous speaker. Citizens decided to trust their fate, the future of the SNS, because those who were in power before the SNS were very, very persistent, very valuable, very systematic, very successful, unfortunately destroying that same future for Serbian citizens. The fact that someone may not have been involved in politics at the time, but it is on the list of such a political party, means that he was in agreement with the party's policy while it was in power. There's no doubt about it, no avoidance of responsibility. Besides, our people say, "Who are you with?"
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16277	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milan Novakovic, following the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16278	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Vice-Government, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, certainly contains only two words, but we are well-known, and Article 21 clearly defines that the insurance, reinsurance, insurance, reinsurance and insurance contracts can only be concluded with the person who is authorised, or consent to carry out activities, or representations in insurance under this law. The insurance company, resecuritisation, contract, as referred to in Article 1(1), may conclude with the person performing the tasks of that position, provided that all the conditions laid down in Article 113 of this Act are met. Here is the problem with the promoter of this amendment, because he didn't read in the order of these members, and especially when he has to connect certain members of this law, then he really gets into trouble in one plot and we really can't help him there, I'm just suggesting he uses a pen more than a rubber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16279	The name above members and Article 22 of the amendment was jointly filed by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16280	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Bečiću, the Honorable Mrs Dragutinović and the Honorable Guests of the NBS, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 22 and it is very important for me to say here that it is good that the amendment debate here is really debated, I think, quite and thoroughly and extensively, that MPs from all MPs participate, and that just means that this bill deserves that kind of attention, and that was our basic message. I have two additional arguments that make it my opinion that this amendment to Article 22 should be adopted today and, above all, I am speaking to respected colleagues and colleagues from the Progressive Party and from other parties here. Gentlemen, you have already adopted 10 of the 289 amendments submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and I in the work so far in this National Assembly. This means, gentlemen, that it is no big deal if some amendment of the New Party MPs is adopted, and especially when we have a very good explanation for this, as is the case now, for example, an amendment to Article 22. We explained, I think we're right, I believe that the NBS gentlemen think we're absolutely right and why not accept it. Imagine that as the ruling coalition, you say we act so that in the Serbian Parliament, the opposition party, the New Party, in this case, there are 523 adopted amendments from the 800 until now, so this would mean that we cultivate here a pluralism, a variety of opinions, that the argument is respected, and I consider, gentlemen, that we should not hide from it, but rather to go together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16281	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16282	The esteemed chairman, respected guests, respected fellow MPs, is a citizen of 22, as well as all members of the law. If it did not matter, it would not be in this part of the law, and it defines that the insurance company carrying out life insurance activities can also carry out insurance operations from the connection accident and jobs of voluntary health insurance, in a section covering the cost of treatment, provided that those insurances relate to the person with which one of the life insurance contracts is concluded. Simply, one addition to the expansion of a life insurance company, and of course as such must be part of this law. I don't see why the opposition MPs are asking us to respect that they have the right to submit amendments. Here you go. You've submitted your amendments. I do not see what is disputed in that we, as MPs of the ruling coalition, have the right to accept and not accept and stop forcing it – accept, accept. What was right and what was in accordance with the law and in the interests of the citizens, and in our opinion it is so, we have accepted, too, the NBS. Force at all costs of something that just doesn't make sense, which is that we don't accept Article 22, and we accept that Article 22 is being deleted, it's losing its meaning. It's probably gonna take a long day, but pushing something that just doesn't make sense. Look, in life, in the congregation, in marriage, in the work of a firm, in businesses, these National Assembly things have to make sense, but what you're trying to do today just doesn't make sense. It's not fair to you either, and it's not fair to the citizens either. Given that you represent as many people as you represent, it only shows the number of councilors, or MPs, as many of you as there are. Accordingly, your claim that someone does not take responsibility does not stand, at least when this side is concerned. At the moment, members of opposition parliamentary groups with the claim "no one is guilty" do not accept responsibility. I think that's who's to blame and how guilty he is, they've figured out the citizens, and they've voted accordingly. All members of the SNS accept responsibility for both this law and all those laws that we have passed and which we will bring both today and tomorrow and in a month and three years and 13 years, none of us will tell – you know, we have sat in the Assembly, but we have not participated. Yes, we've all participated, we've all voted and we'll all be held accountable if any of these laws don't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16283	On section 2 of the title section, the name of the member and member of the 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman of Mr Bečić, the Honorable Mrs Dragutinovic and the Honored Guests of the NBS, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to both Article 23 and these names above Article 23. I think that's very important. Now I'm going to read what it says in Article 23. The citizens contacted me again via Twitter and are very interested in hearing what is written in this bill. I think it's okay for citizens, as carriers of sovereignty, to have an opportunity to hear a debate about what our subject is. In Article 23, Honorable gentlemen, it says – a insurance company can establish one or more domestic and foreign legal, or natural persons, and in brackets, in the following text – founders, under the terms of this law. In point 2 is defined which marking must stand for that company's business name. We believe that this article should be deleted and it would make sense to delete this article if all the other members were deleted and we have cited the basic argument here. Here I have another argument to make, and here is Mr Birmancevic, Mrs Mrdakovic and Mrs Vlahovic, who listens carefully and wants to participate in the debate, as I have noticed. Look, gentlemen, I have to use what's part of the policy here and say - I suggest you accept our amendment. The proposal to accept the amendment contains the basis of our communication, and the basis of our communication should be persuasion. So I'm trying to convince most of you here that it's right exactly what I stand for. Look, gentlemen, I believe that, in our work in the Assembly, it is the best and most appropriate way to act in the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16285	The word is from Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16286	The Honorable Chairman, an amendment to Article 23 has been tabled. – insurance, reinsurance, establishment and business name. This article is defined who can set up an insurance company. There are no more rules that the insurance company can establish at least two legal, or natural persons. Now a company can establish one or more domestic and foreign legal, or natural persons, under the conditions of this new law. The solutions set out in the bill are expected to have a positive impact on insurance, reinsurance companies by increasing market discipline, efficiency and quality of jobs, as well as liberalising the provision of insurance services, resecuring Serbia, and thus encouraging market competition, encouraging positive competition. Another correction for my colleague, Zivkovic, please, the Honorable Chairman. We are SNS MPs and we will not support such an amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16287	Thank you, Mrs. Vlahovic. The word is by MP Vuceta Toskovic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16288	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice Governor of the National Bank, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been decidingly speaking this bill, not to repeat what was said before, decidently saying what should be done and what should be done. Now I've been called by the citizens and asked how long will we endure this terror by one MP who thinks everything and shines in this assembly? So, if you were thinking of accepting any amendment, did you have to sort of psycho, in some way connect with Milosevic Obrenovic, to teach you how he tried at Cargizada and he was able to beg the Emperor to give something to the Serbs. Try to get in touch with a psychopath somehow... I don't know, I can't say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16289	Thank you, Mr. Toskovic. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 24 of the amendment. Here you go, Dr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16290	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Mrs. Dragutinovic and the Honored Guests of the National Bank of Serbia, Zoran Zivkovic and I, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 24, which concerns action and I have only one note to make here earlier. You see, gentlemen, as the citizens also report to Mr Toskovic, the citizens come to me for the first time thanks, and to Mrs Vlahovic, I understand Mrs Mrdakovic, and for the first time in this session what have we respected gentlemen? We have an obvious consensus about citizens showing a terrible interest. Why? Because we're applying one serious approach here. In what? In the debates on bill proposals. I believe, Your Honor, that this is how we should proceed, even if this lasts until deep into the night, to discuss bill proposals, member by member, point by point and so on. We have suggested that Article 24 be deleted, whose first position is as follows: “A life insurance company cannot simultaneously carry out life insurance and non-life insurance activities. “ And then we have an additional explanation for this article in three remaining positions. Our basic argument about erasing is respect for the procedure. And, I need to explain one thing here, first of all, gentlemen from the advanced party, you see how I guessed that Mrs. Vlahovic followed closely and immediately reported for a debate over this amendment. I apologize if the Members of the SNS are bothered when we say - an advanced party. I understood that it only meant the same thing in short. For example, we are called the New Party, but the short name is – new. And if anyone were to say here - the MPs of the new, it wouldn't bother me, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16291	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. Just a moment, 'cause there's a lot of people on the line. Mr. Arsic, you have the advantage, just let me react. The word has been authorized, although Mr. Arsic, the minister has, in this case, a representative of the promoter takes precedence over you. The word is from the Vice Governor Dr Diana Dragutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16292	Thank you. The honourable MPs, again for the public, are not working for MP Pavicevic, I would like to say that the procedure has been respected in this case. Thus, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly states – the law can be passed by emergency procedure. It then writes - by an urgent procedure, the law can be passed, so now, the different reasons, and ultimately, to comply with international obligations and to comply with EU rules. So the law is filed by procedure. This allows for this Rules of Procedure. It's a form. And we can talk a little bit about the essence. The point is next. You've had 10 days of Parliament, because it's an emergency procedure law, to read this law. If it were a regular procedure, you'd have 15 days. You have submitted the same amendments to two laws. That means you must have read the 10 days qualified, and given a qualified opinion at least for one, and you didn't do it. I know there's never enough time, but really, once again, the procedure has referred the law to the National Assembly and secondly, 10 days is enough time for a qualified MP to give a qualified opinion. At least one of the two new laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16293	Thank you, Mrs. Dragutinović. Of the reported whether anyone other than Mr. Pavicevic... (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. I understand, understand, but the Rules of Procedure have priority. Do any of the other reported, according to the Rules of Procedure, besides Mr Pavicevic, want a word? The word is Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I did not sign up, but I can. And you didn't sign up? You waved to the Rules of Procedure, so for that, I apologize. I'm sorry, not if you didn't. He has a word, a replica, Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16294	So now I would no longer be about the very essence of this amendment and of Article 24. That's where the vice governor explained the procedure and everything. I see that even fellow opposition MPs have had more time than students at various universities to prepare for discussions under this law. This time that we've spent reading the law so far, as I see finally, my colleagues, the amendments, will read the whole law by the end of the session. You can see that in one day it can be done. As for nicknames or abbreviations, you know, we don't want SNS to have best men. We determine for ourselves what is going to be our keybinding or we don't want to have it at all. We are MPs here, not MPs of the advanced party, but of the Serbian Progressive Party. And, as Mr Pavicevic said they were the New Party, so they say they are new, we can give them abbreviations, so they can be NS, but then they'll get angry with colleagues from New Serbia. So, don't tell us the abbreviations, we can do it ourselves if we want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16295	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Professor Janko Veselinović came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16296	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice Governor, have you succeeded in contacting Mrs Tabakovic? Is he coming today? (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: No personal address. ) There is no personal address, Mr Arsic, among the MPs, but I am addressing the authorised representative and Becic is now chairing, not you. I absolutely support the amendment submitted by Mr Pavicevic and his colleague. I was talking about it when we talked about it in principle. Namely, although there is no Mrs Tabakovic here today, I will try to convince you, the esteemed Vice Governor, to amend the provisions of this member and the two next members, because I believe that they are deeply contrary to the Constitution. In fact, I will remind you, Mrs Dragutinovic, that this article says that jobs will say – one insurance company cannot simultaneously carry out life insurance and non-life insurance activities. And that would not be controversial, and that is, the directive, or several EU directives, applies to that. However, the next two members say that insurance companies that are already operating will be able to continue their business with the two activities. So, with insurance and resecuritisation jobs, they're going to have to financially separate these two actions and lead them in particular. Mrs Dragutinović, members of 83rd and 84th. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is very clear and these are the foundations of the Constitution and the foundations of the free economy in the free countries, I figure we are one of them, he says – everyone has the same legal position on the market. According to the Insurance Act, one corporate insurance company will be able to deal with two activities, insurance and life insurance and non-life insurance and other companies, also operating under the law, will be able to deal with only one performance. How can this be in line with the Constitution of Serbia, with Article 84? On the other hand, there are no transitional provisions in which it would be said that companies will be obliged within five years to opt for one of these activities, but in our legal system we will have a monopoly company for insurance companies and those who have had an accident to pass the law as an emergency procedure, as it was brought. I beg you, Mrs Dragutinović, that at least you understand. I realized that Mrs. Tabakovic absolutely didn't understand. Do you realize that this provision will fall before the Constitutional Court if anyone raises that question? It's like one and one. On the other hand, I don't think you had any reason to do this. I can't believe you want to put into the monopoly position of the insurance company that now exists or I don't know anything. That's what you have to explain. Finally, a colleague said that a colleague or colleagues who had submitted amendments to the emperor had spoken to him. We, as far as I know, have no emperor or king, and I don't know what kind of address he could take to the Emperor and the King when we don't have him. My colleague, my fellow citizen, has made that proposal. As far as I know, there are some people who want to be, but we have no emperor and no king. In the end, I ask you, Madam Vice Governor, to consult with colleagues sitting next to you, with legal experts, not to get into a situation where one day someone says that you put in the procedure a law that is not in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16297	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16298	President-in-Office, representatives of the NBS, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to which Article 24 is deleted The insurance bill is absolutely unacceptable. We have heard from our colleagues that it is a fact-finding member who provides for the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance, which is certainly something that the Republic of Serbia has to do with the EU directive. This directive provides for such separation, and this is something that has been provided for by the 2004 Insurance Act. Since 2004, the deadline for defining such a single member has been extended and has not been done so far. It's the first time you've done it. Why is separation of life insurance and nonlife insurance significant? Because these are primarily two fundamentally different types of insurance, whose separation will ensure more efficient and transparent management of the assets of life insurance and non-life insurance, thus ensuring greater investment security for all citizens of Serbia. I don't think it's academically congratulating from an amendment that erases such a good law as the insurance bill, which is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia. That is why I do not think any amendment to the amendment should be voted on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16299	Thank you, Mr. Michin. The word is made by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16300	Mr. Micin is quite right. It is not disputed and no one disputes the directive and the need to separate these two types of insurance. That's not controversial. It is only a question of the fact that in the legal system, companies dealing with insurance will remain in business, which will carry out both life and non-life. In one category, regulated by one law, it is part of the work to set equal and less equal companies. Therefore, there is no similar case in our legal system without some legal provisions, transitional provisions. I say once again, we'll have two kinds of companies under one law. One that can deal with both life insurance and life insurance and one that will only be able to deal with one of these types of insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16301	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 25th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Here you go, Dr Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16302	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Mr Becic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the NBS, MPs of Nova, or the New Party, have submitted an amendment to Article 25, and Article 25 is much more extensive. I have to say now that citizens have started calling on the phone now, I've heard from Ivana, they support the debate in this way on these bill proposals, and since Article 25 is very large, I'm going to focus only on the arguments that make us think that Article 25 needs to be deleted. Mrs Dragutinović, with respect to gentlemen who show interest in the debate, Mrs Mr Mrdakovic, Mr Micin, of course Mr Babic and Martinovic, I do not understand when you say that you want the public to work to clarify that the procedure is respected, not by MP Pavicevic. Dear Mrs Dragutinovic, I am the bearer of this amendment. I used this argument regarding the procedure, and I think it's okay that there's one mutual respect for the conversation in our National Assembly. If it doesn't exist on your part, and I interpreted it that way when you say - here, I'll say, but not for MP Pavicevic's sake, but for the sake of the public, it only contributes to that picture that the NBS did not respect the procedure, and it is not and here are two arguments. First, we have not yet opened any negotiating chapters in the EU accession process, our negotiating team has not been completed, and you, Mrs Dragutinovic, claim it is urgent that we adopt this bill. What you are saying now is contrary to what is the real situation in which we are in relation to Serbia's EU accession process. I think it's absolutely clean here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16303	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a vice governor, Dr Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16304	Dear People's MPs, I'd like to fully resolve the dilemma. I said I'm talking about MP Pavicevic just because I know that he knows that member of the Rules of Procedure well, and that was the only reason I said so. You know very well this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and you know very well that there is a valid reason for an emergency procedure. Just because no chapter is open doesn't mean we shouldn't be ready because you can never predict. Maybe at some point it'll open up. Therefore, we want as the NBS and as the Republic of Serbia to be ready to open negotiations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16305	Thank you, Mrs. Dragutinović. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Milisav Petronijevic, according to the amendment. Here you go. You need to re-apply. I can't give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16306	Let me repeat, since we have listened to the 50th time today, the Honorable Chairman, the distinguished Vice Governor Diana Dragutinovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group has not participated in the debate on amendments and will not continue, because the amendments do not aim to engage in the essence of the law, to observe the quality of the law, to change and offer better solutions, etc., but have a completely different goal. For these reasons, we will not engage in this debate. But I want to look back on the amendment to article 25 of this law. There is no dilemma, I defend every MP's right to submit an amendment, to explain it, to convince us that we should accept it in the way he believes best, he was knowledge, ignorance, theatre, whatever you want. By defending that right, I also defend my own right to say that the amendment is not good, that it is pointless, etc. Amendment to Article 25, as well as to anyone who speaks of erasing, what does the amendment to Article 25 mean, or what does Article 25 mean? I would especially like to talk about this member for the simple reason that we have fought for a solution like this for ten years as provided for in Article 25 of the Law. What's this about? When the law was passed, there was also a provision to separate the business of living and non-life insurance and to leave an additional deadline for a composite society, the one that dealt with both, in that time to declare, or separate. This deadline has been extended in 2009, 2011, 2012, 2013, and this deadline is running out these days. If that member were deleted, it would have to apply that deadline, which expires at the end of December 2014. Every time I've been in person, I've been once in a position to discuss with you, too, the distinguished Vice-Governor, I'm just discussing the extension of that deadline, asking us to leave the possibility to composite societies, those who already exist, who are already working, who already have permission, that they can deal with both, of course, under special conditions. The last time I discussed it with you, you said the National Bank was preparing a law that would resolve these issues and here's the final solution, we mean the right solution. In fact, the biggest problem so far and the pain of the fuse was the long-awaited solution. Ten years have lasted since 2004, and could then be resolved. By means of its directive, the European Union has determined that insurance companies established may be engaged in either life insurance or non-life insurance, and composite insurance companies, i.e. insurance companies. companies which, on the date of entry into force of the new law, have the permission to carry out the performance of life insurance and non-life insurance in their business, will be able to continue to carry out both groups of jobs, provided that they provide separate management of assets, capital and liabilities. The law has now offered it as a permanent solution. So that composite companies, insurance companies that can deal with both life insurance and non-life insurance, can continue to do so, but, of course, to run business books separately, separately, incomes, expenditures, results to specifically form and manage, investment portfolios to distinguish property, capital, liabilities etc. Why did I bring all this up? Because for years, we have advocated that this is exactly the kind of solution that has been offered by law. Because life insurance in Serbia is young, in turn. We'd be able, if we didn't, to just make it possible for the market for foreign-developed insurance houses, nothing else, and we owe it to the state to encourage, to help this industry, because it would benefit us greatly. To conclude, the amendment is totally unacceptable for a simple reason because of Article 25. The law states that it gives the ultimate possibility that composite societies can continue to work, those who had the permit before the law came into force, of course, with the distinction of assets, liabilities and capital. We believe, and I have personally fought for it to be a good solution and therefore should remain a member of 25. The law as proposed in the Law, not to accept the amendment, no matter what the aim of this amendment is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16307	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 26 of the amendment. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becicu, respected Mrs. Dragutinovic and respected guests from the National Bank of Serbia, Zoran Zivkovic and I believe that Article 26 of this bill should be deleted. Here I would like to offer another argument in favour of this attitude, with one regret that Mr Petronijevic of the SPS is not interested in discussing our amendments, unlike for example. from the Messengers and the Messengers of the SNS. Here, we have also seen Mrs Simic, Pantic Pilja, Mrs Tomic, Mrs Mrdakovic, Babić and Martinovic, everyone wants to discuss. I'm sorry about that, for example. One parliamentary group doesn't want to do that, but well, we can discuss it. Mrs Dragutinović, I just have to offer one more argument here, I think it's very important. Look, you're okay with this, but it's a matter and a fact that not even the first negotiating chapter is open yet, and this is now about our argument for the amendment to Article 26 of this bill. It has been announced that it is possible for the first negotiating chapter to be opened only at the end of March 2015, perhaps. If we take this as a criterion for measuring our EU accession process, and you are referring to that part of Article 167 that defines an emergency procedure, then I am thinking like this -- wait, if the opening of the first chapter was left for the end of March, what was wrong with you suggesting that in 15 days in the ordinary procedure we can read these drafts of the law, propose amendments and wait for that end of March of the month, because by then there are three months and a few days? Everything you said, Mrs Dragutinovic, is in favour of our argument for this attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16309	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16310	Replica, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, respecting a fellow amendment promoter and respecting what he doctored and acquired professionally, but in the field of insurance, he shows that he really knows nothing, because unless he realizes that he is an insurance company, and he has those who are composite and have those who are lifeless and lifeless, who perform joint tasks, only ignorance can say that they do not need six months to get used to new business under this bill. On the other hand, what is bad in this amendment, that is what Serbian citizens should know, that, in this way, by erasing Article 26, it is also possible for business to be cheaped, that general staff and administrative and technical affairs are done together, that jobs in the conclusion of the agreement on ensuring a common right, that promotional activities and related marketing businesses are carried out jointly. Well, who's gonna pay for the business? Insurance users. In this way, by accepting Mr Pavicevic's amendments, these costs would be overpriced and increased business costs would be overrun by insurance companies to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to the economy. The Serbian Progressive Party wants to relax both citizens and businesses. In this way, by eradicating the possibility of joint business, the joint business that he will do, all that Mr Pavicevic predicted the amendment would impose another additional burden on the citizens and on the economy of the Republic of Serbia, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16311	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is made by the People's Messenger Zoran Jozic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16312	I thank the chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, for trying to carefully study all the amendments to the motions, but since I have seen that a large number of them have seemed to me to need too much time to do so, but in a few minutes I have come to the conclusion that they all have the same explanation, and I am surprised that the proposer of this amendment failed to study a good law and to find at least some adequate amendment that might suggest and which we might be able to discuss in the right way and possibly some of it and adopt. If we have several hundred amendments, which, in a few moments, the distinguished colleague Martinovic compares with the kitten, it is certainly impossible to bring the right explanation, that is, the right solution, but I am willing to support all the several hundred proposed amendments the moment the promoter makes a eggs of several hundred kittens and, of course, spend it. Of course, I'm not gonna support this or those other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16313	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16314	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, apparently, the amendments of the proponent who explained this are causing more and more attention. These amendments are about this way, because of the bearer of sovereignty, for the sake of the citizens, I always have to remind them of what an esteemed fellow promoter has suggested to be a respected, congratulating professor at the University of Political Sciences. It's just that we farmers know that since he's missing that other farmer, I believe he would explain it more practically. I am prepared to vote on their amendments, but from the experience so far on the quality of their amendments, it is said that, attention has been increased, another MP from their 20-list is present as far as I think it was on their election list. I am ready to vote in favour of their amendments, but on the condition that I see from experience, how many of their amendments of hundreds that have been proposed so far have been voted by them, MPs of the New Party, which are mostly used politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16315	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16316	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the National Bank, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this amendment is not accepted immediately at the outset, because here in the Bill of Law, it is decidently said that the insurance company involved in life insurance operations and the insurance company carrying out non-life insurance activities, when the shareholders of both societies, can do the same together. So these are the prophesies' relapses, these are the relapses of the communist system when one great giant made about six, seven, or tenOURs, so we explained all of this, so we destroyed it. So now they're talking to me on the phone and calling to ask – how long is this democracy, where is that level of democracy? So we need to know exactly, because after that, it's anarchy. They speak as long as a people's messenger in the name of no one will harass this people's congregation and deceive the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16317	Mr Toskovic, you cannot speak to the MPs in such a way. Please finish your presentation. Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 27 of the amendment. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16318	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Becic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected NBS guests, the New Party MPs also submitted an amendment to Article 27 of this bill. Before I make two further arguments on the basis of which I believe this amendment should be adopted, just to say that this debate today has really extra good effects. Here, for example, Mr. Jozic mentioned the term of the kittens and it really did float from the term stutter, because it was a dilemma whether it was right. Here's the Serbian language dictionary. Bravo, we're practicing a little good use of language, etc. Two arguments, gentlemen, I think of this amendment as Article 27. I first noticed that Mr. Babic had some doubts about whether I even knew insurance issues, and I have to announce here, the insurance issues in this insurance law proposal submitted by the NBS are related to the matter of the procedure that we in the National Assembly have to respect here. If the NBS, for example, is not working or the Serbian Government, then we are the MPs who discuss the amendment to Article 27 concerning basic capital, we should react and return to respecting the procedure whether we are talking about insurance or any other topic. Another thing, gentlemen, I have heard here again that there is fear in a number of MPs that by erasing something in the bill of law, we will stop with nothing. We will not honor the gentlemen, they will remain in force, live the Insurance Act that is now in force, and nothing terrible will happen if we wait in the regular procedure to discuss these proposals and perhaps adopt them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16319	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16320	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice Governor, today we see that there is a perfomans on the scene. We see in this perfomansion that many actors, not only do they not know the laws but they do not know the part of the work they do, such as politicians, do not know the names of political parties with which they share the daily duties of MPs. Thus are the MPs of the Progressive Party in the full name of SNS MPs. As far as the amendments are concerned, the proposer disagrees and asks to delete an amendment that speaks of capital, a mandatory, insurance company. Thus, the amendment, i.e. Article 27, says it should be deleted that all those life insurance companies should not make a virtual deposit of 3.2m euros. Or they should not simply deposit individual types of non-life insurance relating to motor vehicles and debt guarantees of 2.2m euros or 3.2m euros or reassurance 3.2m euros. It is simply not acceptable, because many legal persons and many citizens would remain damaged in everyday situations relating to these types of insurance. That is why we simply cannot accept that such amendments are adopted at all. After all, all citizens are worried about the general when one irresponsible debate is being held in the Serbian parliament. Therefore, Serbian citizens call all MPs and ask if there is a circus in place or whether we are responsible for law-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16321	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Prof. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. Does anyone want a word? (No) On section 3 of the title section, the name of the member and Article 28 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman of Mr Bečić, the Honorable Mrs Dragutinovic and the Honored Guests of the NBS, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted a really amended amendment that deletes Section 3, the name above Article 28 of the participation and associated persons, participation and close association and Article 28 in general. I will now, with one satisfaction that citizens appear to all MPs today to congratulate on one good debate we have in the Assembly, on a bill of law sent by the NBS, to make two more arguments that I think it is really good for the majority here in the National Assembly to consider adopting our amendment to Article 28. First, I must say, for all those citizens of Serbia, and especially for the MPs, both for Mrs Tomic and Mr Orlic and for the other gentlemen here, that if we accept here to delete a certain member, that he will not, gentlemen, ensure that he disappears from our legislative framework and our system. It will remain, because, as the National Bank of Serbia claims, we already have, please, I now conclude that some other MPs have not read this bill, because it clearly states in the explanation -- there is a law on insurance, not everything will disappear by erasing one member. Look, gentlemen, I believe that and this is our basic argument in this amendment, I believe that the actions of a MP are exactly respect and adherence to the procedure. Because I don't believe there's a single person here who thinks he has modern democracy without respect for procedure, institutions and the rule of law. Well, that's what we should go back to, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16323	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has the People's MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16324	Actually, Mr. Chairman, if I'm not mistaken, right on line. Although, I must admit, you may not be the only ones who may be confused with the situation right now, so am I. Because I thought I heard my last name and felt the need to answer it, but I'm not really sure what I should answer for, given that with that name I didn't hear any questions, comment on any previous exposure, or any suggestion, to give an additional explanation. However, there were additional words, but without the accompanying message, so I'm in a delicate situation right now. On the one hand, it's amazing to me that some MP would be able to bring out a series of words without a message into something that he would bring out here, but, on the other hand, I'm sure it wouldn't be possible for someone, as the children say, to have the chance that, by outlining the replica, someone would be able to challenge the contract itself by saying his last name. I'm sure something like that wouldn't have happened here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16325	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk ambassador, Dr Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16326	The esteemed chairman, gentlemen of the National Bank, respected fellow citizens, continues what started this morning and will probably last, but I hope my colleague understands where he's wrong and that what he's doing, I'll repeat, I don't think it makes any sense. Suggesting to delete an amendment rather than suggest what to write in that amendment is simply not in line with the subject of today's session. Section three, which refers to participation and related persons, consists of three members. One of the first members is this Article 28, which clearly defines that one person has a participation in another person, within the meaning of this law, if he has a direct or indirect right or the possibility to exercise his right to vote in that other person, or to possess ownership in his capital or the possibility of having an effective influence on the management of that person or on his business policy. The amendment itself simply cannot change what is important, and it is important that this article clearly defines who has the participation and who has the participation, that I do not read the whole of Article 28, and in accordance with this, and this member of the law and the whole insurance law is brought, of course, to comply with EU law. However, a quality insurance law is passed both because of the citizens themselves and because of the participants themselves in providing insurance, i.e. in doing this job. Therefore, this amendment will not be accepted and I call again on my colleague to, if he proposes to delete something, suggest what is to be written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16327	Thank you. The word has the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Mr. Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16328	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I'm reporting as an authorised representative under this amendment, like, in some way, turning points in today's debate. We have now heard an esteemed colleague, Dr Birmancevic, who pointed to the senselessness, alleged, of the amendments of colleagues Pavicevic and Zivkovic. You said the rejection of this amendment would be in favour of the citizens of Serbia, if I understood correctly. So, I ask Dr Birmancevic or Mr Orlic to tell us why it is contrary to the interests of Serbian citizens? Here, if you can tell us specifically, I think it would contribute to this debate. I really propose it without any ill intentions. I also believe that the majority, which is huge in this Assembly, in some way, are trying to point to the absurdity and absurdity of the submission of amendments that delete certain segments, so the proposals of the Insurance Act itself, perhaps unwittingly contribute to entering into the debate and spending time. If you care so much about the time and resources of the citizens of Serbia, I don't know why you have a constant need to report, although it is, of course, your right and I don't bring it under question, to point to the absurdity of certain amendments? I repeat - no amendment can, in my opinion, be pointless to the opposition MPs. Secondly, erasing the proposal does not delete the regulation of a particular area, for example, in the insurance domain. On the contrary. So it's not true. And I confirm what Mr. Pavicevic said. I just don't get it, when undoubtedly professional colleagues, and as Dr. Birmancevic and as Mr. Orlic, whom I particularly respect, report, then please, not because of me, but for two reasons – for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and for the argument and for the clear representation of the harmfulness of the erasure. So far, I have not seen the concrete harmfulness of erasing the proposal, while retaining the existing solution, undermining it. So if you get up already, my advice, really friendly and well-intentioned, and you say something's not good and it's pointless, then tell me why. You owe so much to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16329	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. I believe that any MP can make an argument for accepting or not accepting an amendment, as well as the need for MPs to want that law not to be passed by eradicating all members, so that it is the right of all MPs, and we must respect that. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16330	Thank you, Your Honor. A shorttime speaker, I usually respect him as a very intelligent and educated man, and it's just amazing that he volunteered to defend something like this, which showed me he didn't even read the law. Why? Because Article 28, on which the amendment was submitted, is a very important member of this law, because it speaks about the participation and close association of various insurance companies, or insurance companies, and we, as a society, had a big problem, because there were various deceitful activities. This law prevents it. It's very precise how you can be connected when you form an insurance company, especially by this member. So these frauds are now being prevented. Maybe it was during some period when they ruled was allowed. If you're asking to wipe something like that out, then you want to keep that kind of fraud going. And that's what's very problematic, and that's why I don't understand why he volunteered to defend something that's completely unprotective, and to be honest, I believe he could at least read the law, I'm convinced he wouldn't answer, because this is how he gave himself a car-naked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16331	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16332	I believe that this time it is becoming more and more clear – the right to replication, with an appropriate question and a request for an explanation. This is much clearer to me than before. So, I'll be very brief. Make it two sentences, round, why we feel that eradicating certain members of this law is not considered good and why we disagree with it. This comes first of all to questions - why do we support the law, why do we think the bill is good and why, of course, do we want to preserve it, not degrade it by erasure certain members if we are satisfied with the solution in general? If we don't explain now again why we support the whole law, because it doesn't make sense and it wouldn't even be by procedure, to turn this into a new day of debate in principle, I'm going to call on all of us to remind ourselves of the words we've exchanged on the subject of the law in general. It wasn't that long ago, and I believe that we, too, have heard well here that day. What we've been up against all day is an approach. So, when someone uses the term "senseless", it is thought primarily of access and I believe that an esteemed colleague who has asked for an additional explanation will be able to agree with what I'm about to say now that the arguments that follow these five hundred and change amendments, and who are saying that with 512 erasures, the proposer is actually trying to correct some mistake that he himself made when writing his first amendment, can't really make too much sense. That would also be the end of the second sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16333	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think I also agree with the findings of my colleagues that eradicating Article 28 and accepting this amendment would be devastating and bad for our society, for the citizens and for the transparency of the whole process and ownership of insurance companies at all. One of the postulates and set of laws, a set of media laws that we adopted in this same National Assembly, was transparency in ownership and participation that we no longer have hidden media owners, so it turns out that former party presidents had property in the media. I don't know why someone doesn't respond to a clear definition of qualified participation, significant participation, control participation, close association, which is precisely defined by the percentage amount and ownership and participation in the insurance companies themselves. Qualified participation is a possibility and the right to achieve 10% participation or more ownership rights, 20% is significant, 50% is for control. Maybe all this is coming and maybe it's an urge to erase all of this and when it comes from those who don't have this percentage of participation in our society. This percentage of participation in our society and influence has been shown in the elections. You know, when such a request to delete this member comes from someone who has 6% support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, 6% of participation, it cannot be introduced as qualified, nor as significant, nor as control, nor as close citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I see here the only urge why this amendment was submitted, because by looking at those percentages of support shown in the polls, expressed in the democratic elections held in March of last year, the amendment promoter and the list on which he was unable to be led either as qualified or as significant or as controlal or as close to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16335	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws and other acts in the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16336	Thank you. I think you were under obligation on the basis of article 27, which obliges you to take care of the order at the session to interrupt a speaker who speaks with disrespect about the MP by claiming that the number of votes the list received in the elections is the basis for the rights and obligations that arise for each MP from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the National Assembly. That, apart from being offensive, which is demeaning, which is unacceptable as a means of communication in the National Assembly, is directly against all definitions of the status of MPs in the National Assembly. I do not wish to enter into whether this also creates the will to demean and insult the people who voted for any of the MPs, but I consider your obligation to remind every speaker that we are all MPs here equal to the rights and obligations of being a member of the ruling coalition or opposition based on the results of the elections. If we let on the basis of how much who gets the votes disqualify any right, then we do a much worse thing than showing pride for not knowing the acts on which we're all sitting here. We are doing the denial of what we advocate in our words, which is the rule of law, the rule of law and democracy as principles on which we rest and the work of this Assembly or should at least rest and as principles that we stand for when we say we are for the EU. We can't both, we can't be in the words for the EU and in the works and words that you don't stop...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16337	Mrs. Komic, as chairman, you know very well, we cannot enter every word spoken by the speakers and I think it is said here whether anyone has more or less legitimacy and I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Gordana Comić, from the post: I report to the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Comic, you can't do it again. (Gordana Comić, from the place: I can. The same article? (Gordana Comić, from place: Article 104) You can't, Mrs. Comic. (Gordana Comić, from the place: I can. ) Mrs. Comic, I don't think you have the opportunity to replicate my explanation and my question whether you want the Assembly to plead. (Gordana Comić, from the place: I do not replicate, I am talking about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. () How can I harm the Rules of Procedure again if you want the congregation to plead? (Gordana Comić, from the post: No, I want a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I can't give you the word Mrs. Comic... (Gordana Comić, from the place: you must. I can't read the Rules of Procedure that you've turned upside down. (Gordana Comić, from town: On purpose. ) A purposely. (Gordana Comić, from town: On purpose. You have to give me your word. Here you go, Mrs. Comic. I don't think you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16338	Thank you. You have committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure that demeans the National Assembly by referring to a surplus or a lack of legitimacy. I'm absolutely sure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16339	Mrs. Komic, I see you have not listened to me very carefully. I said we couldn't get into every word spoken by the speaker, and I assumed in the speech of the previous speaker that he was talking about a higher or less legitimacy to suggest or not to accept something.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16340	I thank you for repeating the insult of the Assembly, for as chairman, you are obliged to prevent everyone from speaking of more or less legitimacy for the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16341	Mrs. Comic, I can't stop you from breaking the Rules of Procedure either, and you're doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16342	I don't violate any Rules of Procedure, I defend the right of a MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16343	How do you think there's anything else I can do when I can't stop you from breaking the Rules of Procedure? As one of the chairmans, I can't stop you from breaking the Rules of Procedure, and you want me to stop someone else. Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16344	The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, is injured, Article 108(1). We are exposed here not only today, but also in the days behind us to permanent learning freedom of democracy, the rule of law, how, my God, none of this is respected. I will bring you back, and you, Mr. Chairman, I don't have to, you were in that National Assembly meeting, many colleagues and colleagues were in this National Assembly meeting, thank God we have an open parliament, 180 times in 2008 and 2009, 180 times Mrs. Comic took her word, she didn't give the line, she took the word to the opposition MPs, 180 times. Is that democracy? Is that the rule of law? Is this the institution where we all need to sit and build? Why the double archini? Now, when I just wondered if the amendment promoter was qualified, and it's not because there's no 10% participation, it's even less because it's 20%, the control interest is 50%, and there's no sleep either. For God's sake, there's now some kind of hypersensitivity to something like that, and what about 180 times taken from Mrs. Comic, not giving her the right to replication, not giving her the right to harm the Rules of Procedure? I've been there, I've attended this tyranny that happened, and I'm going to be very happy for 2010 and 2011, and all that this National Assembly and the People's MPs in the Eighth Assembly that we've been exposed to.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16345	Thank you, Mr. Granny. You said everything, so I don't have a comment. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. Thank you. Do you, Mr. Stefanovic, want to speak on behalf of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. () Since I have a lot of reports of breach of the Rules of Procedure, a two-minute break. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above members and Article 30 of the amendment. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16347	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Becic, dear Mrs. Dragutinovic, and the honored guests of the National Bank of Serbia, please just to check, dear Mr. Becic, whether we are on Article 30 or Article 29, since in my record the next article is 29, and I would not miss the opportunity to justify the amendment to Article 29. Well, if it can be checked in the system, because according to my notes, we are now on Article 29 concerning the ban on mutual participation...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16348	You've moved on to Article 30.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16349	It's not. Please check it out, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16350	The chairman opened a debate on Article 30.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16351	Is article 29 skipped?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16352	Let the services tell us, you are free to speak of Article 30, since it does not restrict us from returning to Article 29 for nothing. It doesn't say – it has to be read in the exact order of pages. Please, Mrs. Comic, at least you've burned and burned here before, as far as respect for the MPs is concerned. You know everything. Free of charge on Article 30. Please, Pavić, we'll be back at 29.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16353	Dear President, please just give me my time, because this has all been a matter of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16354	I have no influence on the fact that you've wasted your time in endless debates with me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable National Assembly President, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic, honored guests from the National Bank of Serbia, I believe there was nothing artificial here. By nature of things and according to the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to my two minutes in this case for amendment to Article 30 of this Bill, which concerns connected persons with one knowledge here, that there is a possibility of going back to Article 29 if this amendment to Article 29 has been confirmed that this amendment has not been explained here. Dear gentlemen, as we can check here, four hours today we are discussing amendments to the insurance bill and it is no wonder for me that Serbian citizens are constantly coming forward now satisfied that we are discussing one bill in this way. When it comes to Article 30, gentlemen, I have to intervene here for a performance by Mr. Orlic who said he answered without knowing why. Please, gentlemen, I think SNS MPs should follow...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16356	Shall we go to Article 30, by amendment? We don't want to analyze anyone. Citizens don't care about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16357	Thus, Article 30, relating to related persons and where it states in point (1), for example: ‘Connected persons, within the meaning of this law, are persons who are interlinked to the management, capital or otherwise in order to achieve common business objectives, so that the business or performance of one person can significantly affect the business, or the performance of another person’s business. We have explained why the amendment should be accepted and I propose that SNS MPs follow the example of MP Birmancevic who appears to be convinced that this should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16358	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16359	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm sorry it's not an amendment under Article 29, but this article 30 is somehow connected to it. Dear Serbian citizens, of course, have not offered any explanation, but this, as well as many others, has been erased and you know what they want to delete. Article 29 defines the ban on mutual participation...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16360	We've finished Article 29.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16361	Article 30 defines which persons are associated. So the SNS and the current government, or the National Bank of Serbia, wants to prevent fraud that took place in the formation of insurance companies and corporations. Someone wants to wipe it out for you now, put it back on the table, and still see it as a hoax. Let them tell the citizens of Serbia what they are asking to be deleted. Here it is clearly specified how they can be connected faces and how an insurance corporation can be formed, very precisely, to prevent this kind of fraud. So I ask the citizens of Serbia, I deeply apologize to them as a People's MP for having to listen to all this today, but we are simply forced, because someone wants to do parliamentary obstruction, because in a different way they do not know to explain absolutely nothing why this law is bad. The fact is, he didn't even read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16362	He was a member of the 29. The injuries of the Rules of Procedure were under discussion. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16363	Thank you. I think I'm going to say for a few more amendments that I'm giving my support to the idea that one of the many who are deleted, as this one is to Article 30, that is to say, in the name above the member and in Article 30. When you have the view that an existing list that is in force is better than what is proposed, you have several options ahead of you and one of the options is that you have an amendment like the amendment to Article 30, to ask that an amendment removes the idea of a member of the law. It would be good to consider this every time it is said that if the amendment to Article 30 and the name of Article 30 were accepted, there is no solution, there is, it is in force, and it would be valid, as it would be good to comment on why we do not consider that the amendment should be accepted to stick to the facts, and we should say that all MPs are equal in the rights and obligations arising from the entry into office and taking oaths before the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16364	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16365	Right on the line, Madam President, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16366	No replica, only when it's done directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16367	I think I heard my name, so that's why.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16368	We don't give when it's just a name and name, please. So, just citing a speaker doesn't have the right to a replica. It's never been before. You can speak by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16369	Just one little suggestion. Since I've obviously got some weird echo with my last name today, let's consult the technical service.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16370	I don't do technique. That's too much for me. Do you want to speak by amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16371	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16372	Thank you very much. By amendment, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16373	I don't think my colleague Orlic really knows much about this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16374	MP, you didn't get the right to a replica. I'm taking your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16375	Why? I want to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16376	You can only talk about the amendment. This is extremely incorrect towards the chairman, wanting to challenge a replica of the MPs. You're on your way, who understands, who doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16377	I'm sorry. Madam President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16378	Don't talk to me either. I'm getting an apology. Do you want to speak after the amendment? Please sign in so I can give you some time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16379	Here, I've been reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16380	Well, then you spent 49 seconds on nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16381	To argue with you, which is unnecessary. So, this amendment, as well as the previous amendment that was submitted, does not essentially change anything. I can bet right now that the existing solution that is in the current law is at a high percentage coincides with what is in front of the MPs. If I can't confirm it, or you, here, there's a lady from the National Bank who can confirm it. Therefore, this argument -- Serbian citizens, I'm sorry, they're erasing a whole segment that regulates the issue of participation in the organisation and the formation of insurance companies, falls into the water. So the right of the MP is to delete one solution he considers to be bad. An existing solution is no worse than this solution and you know it well. I'm sure. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: What is it? Do you know what it's like? Come on, let's hear it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16382	Here, I'll read it. I can, I've asked for everything to be taken out of my existing law and everything, but I'm not taking part in the debate. On section 4, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 31st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16383	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, Honored Mrs Dragutinovic, and the Honored Guests of the NBS, the MPs of the New Party have submitted an amendment to both Article 31 and all of these titles that stand above this article, which read as follows: qualified participation, Section 4 and previous consent to obtaining, or increasing qualified participation. I will try to convince the MPs that they should accept this amendment to Article 31 now, above all, by referring to the content of the arguments we have tabled for this amendment. I noticed, for example. that some MPs identify what is contained in the amendment with what is contained in the arguments. Our position was to delete article 31. But, in our explanation, we wrote like this – this amendment was submitted to bring the amendment to Article 1 in line with the defined objective. This means, then, that the MP, any one, Orlic, Birmancevic, Vlahovic, etc., should return to the reasoning of Article 1 and write it finely, says – since the proposal for an insurance law provides that the application of the maximum number of provisions will begin after six months of the date of entry into force, we believe that this member should be deleted, in order for the MPs, I think it is fine, have enough time to get acquainted with the provisions of the bill and that in the assembly debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16384	Ambassador, don't talk about the amendment. The amendment refers to qualified participation, i.e. the previous consent to gain an increase in qualified participation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16385	Yes, I'm referring to our argument right now to the amendment to Article 31, the Honorable President.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16386	It's getting wiped out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16387	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16388	Thank you. Time. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16389	Dear Presidents, distinguished guests, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Amendment's Proposer requests the removal of Article 31, which sets out the obligation to obtain the prior consent of the NBS to persons who wish to acquire or increase qualified participation in the Insurance Action Society. Also, there are commitments to be made to the NBS by persons who have obtained consent to acquire, i.e. to increase qualified participation in the insurance company. For SNS, this amendment is not acceptable. If I didn't have a moral obligation to answer, because the citizens who called me on the phone wanted to know more about what the amendment promoter wanted to delete, believe me, I wouldn't answer a word. When someone wants to improve a law, he, in the light of the amendment, makes concrete proposals or solutions to improve the law. That's why I think the motionary intended to actually obstruct today's Parliament's session. I say once again, for SNS this amendment is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16390	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16391	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SNS will, as the colleague announced, be against this amendment. I think there's a lot of reasons. I expected the amendment promoter to skip at least this member because it is about qualified participation. You will allow me, I will return in my discussion to Article 28(2) in which it is said – a qualified participation exists when one person has a direct or indirect right or the possibility of achieving 10% or more voting rights. I can understand that the amendment promoter has this pathological reluctance to a significant 20% participation or control participation that has another 50% political option, but has the right to dream, has the right to dream at least that 10%. When you've got six and that's in a wider system, you have the right to dream of that 10%. Therefore, I felt that this amendment, at least this amendment on qualified participation and conditions for qualified participation, would have to be skipped and not to provide for that amendment to be deleted. One more reason. I have in my hands a stenogram, a stenogram from a session where the sessions began and were adopted by the current Insurance Act. I'll read a few sentences. The one to which the amendment's proposings are calling for us to return to him because of the procedures and circumstances in which he was brought, because this, my God, was brought so urgently, so quickly, disrespecting the procedure. This was read by the chairman. The government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing to put on the agenda an insurance bill submitted to the National Assembly on 19 April, etc., for - 127 MPs, against – 88 etc. You are referring to something that has already been adopted by an emergency procedure, wanting to disprove because these laws have been passed by an emergency procedure. Where's the consistency? Where's the congratulation? Where is it to go before Serbian citizens with valid arguments, with the idea that it can do better, how can it be different and not – we delete everything because it is an emergency procedure, and we call for something that has already been adopted by an emergency procedure? Please, ladies and gentlemen, let's be serious. We send a special picture to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Don't use those little things, which children would say, in Serbia, that we're trying to earn some common and small political points. It's unserious when he comes from any MP, he's been a doctor, a doctor, a professor, a Shuster, anyone. I don't share people that way. But it's inconclusive to use that argument. You had to look at this April 19th, this stenogram. You had to see that the law was passed by emergency procedure. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: What year? ) In 2004, it's no problem, but, gentlemen who throw it, you haven't changed it, you haven't arrived, you didn't want it or you didn't know it. Anyway, there was no will. If there was no will, then you are referring to something that was brought in by emergency procedure. If you haven't changed that in some more proper procedure, as you think, it means you've accepted this emergency procedure. Why did the emergency procedure 2004, 2005, 2008, 2012 suit you, and now it doesn't suit you? That's not an argument that was good. In these 127, do not let us find someone who is sitting in congregation benches. In these 88 that are against it, it's possible that some people sitting here, in those who are against it. But you had an emergency procedure back then, and now you're against it. Just figure out what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16392	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16393	The Honorable Chairman, you know when laws are this important on the agenda, I would ask you if you could just a little quiet, if it's not a problem, I'm trying to prepare myself well, so I'll read an older legal solution, or at the moment it's actual because I think this is where we really represent the citizens and everyone is watching us and I'm not betting on what's written in the current legal solution, but I know what it says. Among other things, since you are asking to delete "skilled participation", I will tell you that in the current law "skilled participation" is defined only through two very smut members. Here it is also precise through 10 members, very precise, how you can have "qualified participation", as well as related persons, where there is now a circle of connected persons who cannot form insurance companies, and that is what my predecessor did not read because he did not even read the law. It is a key difference between SNS MPs, who are well prepared, and an opposition who obviously does not want to prepare for any legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16394	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16395	Thank you very much, Madam President. Look, it's good to be back on the subject. I am grateful to Mr Djukanovic for explaining his vision, i.e. explained, to be correct, my vision of the substance of this change, which is wrong, as it is wrong to accuse DS of 2004 when we were against that law, and the SPS was in favour. Your SPS is here, so you don't ask them anything...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16396	The replica or the amendment? You asked for an amendment. You didn't get the replica, because you didn't even look for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16397	Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16398	You'll get a stenogram. The question was – according to the amendment, you – according to the amendment. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 32nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16399	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinović and respected guests from the NBS, the People's MPs of the New Party have proposed to delete Article 32 and the name above Article 32, which is – conditions for obtaining, or increasing qualified participation. Dear gentlemen, my suggestion is to make a deal here. Look, when we say that a member is being deleted, it doesn't mean that we claim that some procedure, under which a previous law was passed, and this is now Article 32, was good, nor that the contents were good, we only use one argument for this amendment, and it says - by erasing one member does not cease to apply everything in terms of insurance, and so does this thing that stands in Article 32. I call on you, it seems to me now that you have not read it, and I have read all 396 pages and texts of laws and arguments, to read the first paragraph in the context of the reasons for the law, where Mrs Dragutinovic is finely defending the position that there is a legislative framework for the supervision of the activity of insurance and that the framework makes up the Insurance Act. Dear gentlemen, if the argument for not adopting our amendment to Article 32 is that this existing law was passed by emergency procedure, gentlemen, then why would you want to adopt the same thing in an emergency procedure? Why is this majority knowingly making a mistake that someone else is warning about? I can't understand that at all, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16400	The word is made by the People's Messenger Dalibor Radičević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16401	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen, article 32 speaks of gaining, or increasing qualified participation. It has been very precisely written, and the argument "wipes" is not enough for me to accept this amendment, nor have the Members of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16402	The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korac, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16403	Madam President, our amendment concerns Article 32, which sets out the conditions for acquisition, i.e. increasing qualified participation in the insurance companies. We believe that Article 32 is not precise enough, so I will specify one of the examples of Article 32, which says what person, or what conditions should have a person who intends to acquire, or increase the qualified participation in the action society. In the current proposal, you say in point 1 of point 1 of the statement that it has a business reputation, in point 2, to ensure that persons who will run insurance companies' business after that acquisition have a good business reputation and an appropriate experience, in point 3 that its financial situation is satisfactory, given the activities that the company performs, etc. This article has been restructured, and so in point 1. we say that the person must meet the following conditions, to ensure that the persons who will run the insurance company's business after that acquisition have completed college and at least nine years of experience in the insurance business, as well as in the management and management business. In point 2, they shall make a profit in the business of the last three years at least in the amount corresponding to the value of the qualifying participation they receive, i.e. to increase. Of course, we also have an objection to the final position of this member, which states in the proposal that the National Bank prescribes closer conditions for acquisition, i.e. increasing qualified participation in the insurance company, as well as evidence, documentation and data required by the person in Article 1 of this Article to deliver with a request for consent under Article 31 of this Act. We believe that these are too many powers for the People's Bank, and we have reshaped that last position of this member and we say that the National Bank prescribes in what way, or which documents prove that the conditions laid down in Article 1 of this Article are met, as well as other documentation and data that the person referred to in Article 1 of this Article is obliged to deliver with a request for consent under Article 31 of this Act. Our proposal has been rejected. I don't think the arguments that have been given in an explanation for the refusal of amendments stand. I'd like to try to convince the vice governor one more time. I do not think that this article is precisely defined, or defined, all the conditions that someone who wants to gain the right to participate in insurance companies, or is not sufficiently quantifiable. I think it's inadmissible that the National Bank determines its sublaws the conditions for that person to meet. We think that the conditions, whose fulfillment is not objectively measurable, cannot even be prescribed by lower acts. If it is said that, as you say, it has a good business reputation, to ensure that persons who will run the insurance company's business after that acquisition have a good business reputation and proper experience, we don't think that's accurate enough. Once again, we ask you to consider this proposal. Also, we think that this member, like this formulated, carries a great corrupt risk, because the criteria for gaining qualified participation are not clearly and objectively defined, nor is their fulfillment clearly and objectively measurable. In addition, too much discretion is given to the National Bank of Serbia, and we believe that this member should be amended in the way we have said it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16404	You want to answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16405	If I may, and as regards the amendment to Article 32. What was our intention, or why did we reject this amendment? There were more amendments than just the one we turned down for the same reason. So we can have our own opinion of what the reasons are for refusing requests for qualified participation. Unfortunately, however, or fortunately, we want this law to bring us in line with the directive as much as possible. It may not be nice to say, but we almost copied this from the directive. So this is how we'd get away from each other, not close. And that was the reason, not just for this amendment. So wherever the directive was moving away, we rejected such amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16406	By amendment Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16407	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Governor, fellow MPs, today most of the debate is being held here on whether it is appropriate or not to give amendments requesting the erasure of a member and then when another amendment comes, he faces the same fate, and then questions whether it is justified to criticise fellow MPs who seek to delete certain members and accuse them that they have not read the bill, that they are not constructive in their amendments. For the citizens to know, of the 313 amendments, as submitted to this law, one was adopted. Of 313 one. Of the 32, those who talk about it, something other than erasing, one is adopted. So I don't think it's right to criticize the MPs for doing what they do and the possibility of doing in the Rules of Procedure, which is to make amendments the way they think it's best and most meaningful. We've made one effort here to define things more precisely than the one proposed. It means that something that doesn't exist in our legal system, a position that someone gets a condition, gets a condition for gaining qualified participation to have a good business reputation. How does he determine himself? We see here in an explanation for the refusal of this amendment that it will be done by means of a sublegal act. We're against it. We've given concrete solutions to how to do it by law, and by sublaw only to define documents that the person will be interested in determining whether or not the person meets the conditions. I don't see how that's getting away from the criteria relating to the directive. I can't see. That this law is not an emergency procedure, maybe we could have had a more quality discussion so that somewhere we could hear that our amendment is exactly a step away from the directive, not like this to get the paper in this short period of time that we had. For two years, this law has been written. The governor told us that he was ready in May or June this year, why didn't he enter the procedure then and why we adopt him within 10 days, and the others are given the right and it's stressed that it takes three, six or nine months for them to prepare? Well, we need some time, too. We haven't had 10 days here and we haven't done anything, we've had a meeting last week. They couldn't sit and read this law, and when they sat down and read and gave the amendment, he refused. So 32 amendments, in addition to these amendments -- deleted, all of them rejected except one. I ask you not to use those arguments anymore as some amendments are meaningful or less meaningful, as someone has read or not read the law. In particular, I ask my colleagues from the ruling party that when they are told that something is not good to call on something like this to be done in the past. You came all the way here because you're better, you introduced yourself to the citizens as better, and don't do the same thing we did wrong. So, be better, don't make any mistakes that we've made, and specifically in this case, please, Mr. Babico, since I see that you're well prepared, you see those 88 that were against, who was against and who was in favour, before you give criticism to your colleagues across the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16408	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16409	Thank you, Madam President. These are the laws that indicate we're better. In 2004, the Insurance Act was adopted. You weren't part of the ruling coalition back then, okay, why didn't you change? What were you doing? You participated in two governments. From 2004 to 2012 how long has it been? Eight years. Why didn't you change? We're better because we're changing. Maybe not right away, but after two years, we're changing. This is our thinking of how the Insurance Act can be better and better and thank you for the opportunity to score. Here, we're four times better. You've had eight years of time, you haven't done anything about it. Two years have passed and the SNS has changed the Insurance Act, or will vote it in the coming days. On the other hand, I think that we are all MPs, citizens of Serbia, we are all equal before God and before the law, because if anyone can say – this law is pointless, and someone else who sits on the other side can't say – these amendments are pointless, these are different arches, and I don't believe in the Assembly of various arches, and I don't believe in the society of different arches. Something can apply to someone and someone has every right to say whatever they say and what they say and what they do to make them right, and on the other hand, someone can't express their views on these amendments. We didn't say, the SNS didn't say that the amendment promoter, not you in a specific case, is not about this amendment, it's about a series of amendments that say - it's being deleted. Because the amendment promoter in the debate said in principle – I did not read the law, i.e. read the first page, pages 125 and 357. When someone confesses in principle, in front of people, in front of MPs, why is it so difficult to exploit? Why is it so hard to invite yourself to such a thing? I believe, as I said earlier, that this is a good way to propose amendments – it is deleted, this is how they get in time to read the law. We will wait patiently until 281 members of this bill. I am sure that when all these amendments pass – it is deleted, when the proposings manage to read the whole law, I am sure that Mr Pavicevic will stand up and say – this is a good law, I will vote for him. And I think that would be good. I think that would be good because the argument made both by Mrs Tabakovic and Mrs Dragutinovic and the SNS MPs speak in favour of Mr Pavicevic in the voting day, when he read the law, when all these amendments pass, I am sure that he will be defined by one vote for the Insurance Act, new after two years. Everything you haven't been able to do and correct in eight years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16410	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Excuse me, do you allow a new MP to take an oath to participate in the work? Thank you very much. Thank you. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the National Assembly MP for the vacant parliamentary seat in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by RIK on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly, as well as a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly to comply with Article 27(5). The Law on selecting Members of the People finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Gorjana Marinkovic, elected from the electoral list Aleksandar Vukic – the future in which we believe. On the basis of the decision of the RIK, a report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I would like to confirm the mandate of MP Gorjana Marinkovic and congratulate you on the election. Dear People's MPs, please, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly approach the swearing of an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Let me wish you successful work in the current term of office. The word has a letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16411	Thank you. And by serving the truth and justice, I want to support the amendment submitted by fellow MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veseinović, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Branka Karavidić and Aleksandar Senic, and to thank the Vice Governor for the explanation that is clear to all of us who deal with European integration and read the laws that we know are from the national plan, from the harmonisation agenda, because an important sentence has been said that I fully understand, which is that a good part of the provision is being copied from the directive. The experience of countries that previously changed according to the recipe for European integration is different, and therefore it is important to discuss this. Because in the EU directive that we harmonize the sentence of having a good business reputation, it has a meaning, it has a context, it has a decade-old history of a country in which we will classify it as one of the first conditions. And that's why it's an important debate. It is therefore important to have a deeper discussion with the MPs and therefore it is important not to have an emergency procedure. This meeting has adopted 120 acts, 90 by emergency procedure. You can tell very quickly that it won't be of any use to anyone. If there were a dialogue, my proposal would be, as someone who supports the European integration of the Republic of Serbia, anyone who knows how we came to the bill so that they comply with the directives, then amendments of this kind are introduced into sublegal acts. And it's very splicy. It is on the verge of being accepted by the Republic Secretariat of legislation and professional services within the National Bank. But it would be like one of the solutions to debate just one solution, not to get into a situation even with chapter 31, and with this, it's still a good situation with directives. We will have this as a very serious problem in chapters 27, when we harmonize why the environment is 11, 12 and 13 that regulates common agriculture. So, copying only from the directive. I have no objection to what it's part of the process, but I have a serious proposition. In future proposals, and there will be more, to leave enough time for the proposing's will, to find a way to apply the directives the way they have been translated into the same text and rewritten, and to have the awareness that there must be room for us to measure whether there is capacity in our administration, in our public finance insurance market, wherever there is law, that this directive is constantly changed. So that there are no cases that we could have followed in other countries that have changed that the prescribed provision produces more problems than it does the planning of the sector. I think that this amendment is in this sense quite, quite appropriate, and I repeat, if it cannot be decided to accept it because of a remark on a move away from the directive, then consider that in the sublegal act it is absolutely clear what it means. For example, let me just say, good business reputation with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16412	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16413	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Mrs. Karavidic, don't think I'm speaking directly, but I can really say that the way you explained the amendment shows that you have read the law extremely accurately. You are one of the few MPs of the opposition who is very thorough in reading and preparing for this work. That's very positive. I think you could be a role model to other colleagues. I believed, among other things, that your colleague who explained this from your party, that he had read this too, but he denied me in his performance even though he signed that he was the applicant of the amendment. He denied me because he said among other things that he had not read this law to the end, even defended it – he was deleted. You know what, this is serious stuff. This law of many things depends on the lives of small people in some way. Because someone's paying for that insurance. We can't approach the law like this, and we're looking for it, it's wiped out. It's not the law to wash blackberries and strawberries. This is the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16414	Ambassador, I respect your attitudes, but I'm only asking for an amendment. This amendment is not required – it is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16415	This is an amendment that is very precise and I think maybe some things could have been adopted. Too bad you haven't tried to individually, segmentally explain which point to change. This is how it is difficult to accept a complete amendment, because there are some things I disagree with, and I believe that Mrs Dragutinovic or the National Bank alone could possibly consider some things to make a correction. Generally, let's figure out how serious this is. Let's not play with not reading something like this, and we want to explain it and say it, delete it. Because it's still about the lives of little people who can no longer accept the fact that they're being deceived by various insurance houses and corporations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16416	On behalf of the members and members of the 33rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The People's Messenger Pavicevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, honourable Members of the People's Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the National Bank of Serbia, the People's MPs of the New Party also submitted an amendment to Article 33 above which there is one name, where it writes – a request for prior consent to obtaining, or increasing qualified participation. In Article 1(1), the National Bank of Serbia decides, within 60 days of the date of receipt of an orderly request, on a request for consent under Article 31 of this Law. Then we have a few views of this member where I couldn't read everything in two minutes, so just one further argument to the MPs here, to consider adopting our amendment to Article 33. Here is Mr. Babic and Mrs. Pesic called our actions and for the amendment to article 33 of the bill by obstruction. Dear gentlemen, this is not an obstruction. This is called deconstruction. Destruction of what? One poor rule, poor manners that mean sending bill proposals mainly from the Serbian government to the Serbian Parliament, and now we see from the NBS, not respecting that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will repeat that whenever there is an opportunity for it, the central political institution of our country within which all of us MPs here must adhere to the procedure as one sacred thing. If the National Bank is wrong about the procedure, Mrs. Pesic, Mr. Babić, we all have to act together, and now by adopting our amendments all 281 to this insurance bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16418	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16419	Thank you. It's a direct reference replica. I never once mentioned that submitting an amendment was an obstruction. I'd like the amendment promoter to listen a little more carefully to others instead of listening to the echoes of his speech. I think this is good. I said I'd listen very carefully and wait for the amendment promoter to read all 281 members of this bill, because when he reads, I'm sure he'll vote for this law. In these destructures, destruction, degradation, he would have to consider one election to be held in two weeks for a local self-government, so instead of fighting as all political options and all political parties for as much support as possible for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for which local self-government, some political parties and parliamentary political parties had to fight for people who would stand on their list, and then couldn't fight for them either. Imagine that you represent the interests of the citizens, and you couldn't convince them that you needed 40 people to stand on your list and run these people for one local self-government, for the elections that will take place on December 28th. I think it's scandalous. It is scandalous that someone is taking an argument to represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and there is no one to go out with, because there are no people who will stand behind the names of the parties, I do not know what they are called, nor the leaders of those parties. Watch out when you're fighting to make a list of 40 people, and you're not gonna make it either, and how are you gonna fight for the support of citizens living in these local environments? Think about it before you submit these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16420	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16421	Thank you, President. So I believe that the amendment to Article 33, which is deleted, of course, Article 33, is absolutely unacceptable. This article prescribes a decision by the National Bank of Serbia on a request for prior consent for acquisition, i.e. increasing qualified participation in the insurance company, and is closely linked to Articles 31 and 32. The proposal for a law on insurance, which defines the obligation to obtain the consent of the National Bank of Serbia to acquire, i.e. to increase participation in the insurance company. Why is this necessary? First of all, to protect the users of the insurance company's services. Protect from whom? The company owner cannot be expected to provide a stable and secure operation of the insurance company based on the available data. So this is what we protect the citizens. And not only that, Article 33 states that before granting consent, the National Bank of Serbia must determine the reliability of the persons who gain participation, as well as the financial justification of that acquisition. For these reasons, I believe this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16422	On behalf of the members and members of the 34th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear colleagues, I see one joy with the Serbian Progressive Party MPs that I will now speak for two minutes about our amendment to Article 34. It's a proposal for a law on insurance. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the National Bank of Serbia, in article 34, we also have a name above the article 34, which we also propose to delete. Here is what the term is – Refusal of requirements for obtaining prior consent for acquisition, increasing qualified participation. Dear gentlemen, at this point, I would like to make another argument here that makes me consider this amendment to be Article 34. The insurance law, submitted by the National Bank of Serbia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, should be deleted. I am calling now, not to the Rules of Procedure, but I am referring to the procedure, but to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen. Please, I'll read here a member of the Third Constitution, which also concerns the procedure. Article 3 has two positions. First position – The rule of law is the basic assumption of the Constitution and rests on inalienable human rights. So, the most important part of our debate today, gentlemen, what does Article 2 say? Article 2 says – The rule of law is achieved through free and direct elections, then constitutional guarantees of human and minority rights, the division of power, independent judicial authority, and, Mrs Dragutinovic, the key part, by obeying the Constitution and the law. People's MPs are always here to warn those who are executive powers about it. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16424	The word is Dr. Boban Birmancevic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16425	Thank you. Dear President, respected guests from the National Bank, respected colleagues, respected citizens, I did not have the opportunity, the session was interrupted, to replicate my colleague Stefanovic. He's not here right now, so I won't. What's important is I've been asked a direct question to answer why it's good not to delete a member of the law. Here, I will answer with a question addressed both to him and to the amendmentr. In no explanation since this morning or until today, and probably in the next period of this session, the motionary will not explain why it is good to delete any member of the law, which further explains and defines a member of the Insurance Act. Simply, any part of the law that will help citizens understand better and that the law works better is certainly good for both citizens and for that law. The appeal to the rule of law has nothing to do with this member of the law, which simply explains that the National Bank of Serbia refuses to obtain consent to obtain, or to increase qualifications under certain situations, where it has stated five, that the documents or data submitted are incomplete, that the applicant does not meet at least one of the conditions laid down in Article 32, etc. Such a member of the law and all these members of the law are only helping the law itself, the service providers themselves, the citizens themselves, to have better quality solutions from this area. There is no member who defines this area, or which is in this law and needs to be deleted. That, of course, did not even prove to us by proposing in their address. Therefore, of course this article 34 will pass in this form and this amendment cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16426	Thank you. We've determined what happened to Article 29 and we're going back to it. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 29 of the amendment. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16427	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected colleagues, respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, respected Mrs. Dragutinovic and respected guests from the National Bank of Serbia, I think it is now my turn to put a little more trust in MPs from the opposition when they suggest something. This now concerns Mrs. Gojkovic, who, with mistrust, and I mean terrible, observed my intervention when I announced here...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16428	You're absolutely untrue. I have full confidence, that's why I've been checking.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16429	So how, Mrs. Gojkovic, have you been checking for so long, and you have confidence? So I recorded Article 29. Here, to use my two minutes here for one good thing. What's a good thing, gentlemen? That all of us here, the 250 of us, and the people of the National Bank of Serbia, are focused on the content of the laws we adopt here and the ones we discuss being the best possible. Here, because of citizens who still come and answer here on the phone and via Twitter first of all, I don't know what it is today, just to say about Article 29. So, we have submitted an amendment to Article 29 to delete that member. Name above Article 29 is – Prohibition of mutual participation. Since it is the citizens' suggestion to read and explain a little slower and to discuss the bill more thoroughly, here I will now read the contents of Article 29, so that all citizens can, behold, and Mrs Tomic is agreeable, much better to understand what the bill says. In Article 29, the insurance company, the reinsurance company, the insurance brokerage company and the insurance representation company cannot have mutual participation within the meaning of Article 28(1) of this Act. We agree that this content may also be good on condition that it is respected procedure, but unfortunately it is not. We have to respect the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16430	The word is Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16431	Dear People's MPs, the contents really have nothing to do with the procedure. So, how can I tell you – the contents are contained. It is best to respect both the form and the essence, but you can't say that the content has to do with the procedure, and I really repeat for what time, since it's not difficult for you, it's not difficult for me either, the National Bank of Serbia respected the procedure, because I can't help but think that you want to present that the adoption of the law by an emergency procedure is something unfair.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16432	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16433	The Honorable Chairman, I trust the opposition people endlessly, especially if they have not read the law and I absolutely agree with their claim. Because if they had, they would never have submitted the amendment to be "expunged", to this particular member. And why is that? Well, because Article 29 defines a ban on mutual participation, where it is very precise, which in the current legal solution was not the case. I invite you to read the current legal solution, which is very precisely defined as being able, in fact, to the insurance company, the reinsurance company and the insurance brokerage company, in fact, to have no common participation. This is precisely what prevents various deceitful actions that have taken place so far. I repeat again, precisely because of this amendment, because you want to delete something like this and damage the citizens of Serbia, I trust you endlessly that you have not read the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16434	Thank you. The word has Dr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16435	Thank you, Madam President. I certainly welcome the return to Article 29 as just an extraordinary example of taking care of a good procedure, as an excellent example of pedanticity on this matter. Unfortunately, at the same time, there wouldn't be too much damage in terms of making arguments in this room today, and we haven't come back, given that we've actually heard the amendment and the only explanation of the amendment today, and that seems to me 33 times already. Well, for those reasons we heard during the reasons why the previous 33 times that proposal was bad, I call on us to refuse this amendment this time too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16436	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16437	Thank you. With the support of the amendment to Article 29 which has been missed in the procedure. It's perfectly fine, and it's not the first time we've considered him happily right now. Only now he notes with support that it contains every provision and that it has to do with the procedure. The contents of the provisions, for example, that women get the right to vote in some law, that is, the Constitution has produced a lot of procedures. The procedure is culture. The contents of each provision must be tied to the procedure. I am not saying this because I consider it crucial, I can support my fellow counterpart Pavicevic's amendment, and if I had a different view of the argument, why he submits the amendment "is deleted". Therefore, the urgency of the procedure makes it impossible for you to physically prevent you from considering the content in sufficient detail in the dialogue on the committee responsible or the tide itself. In this context, it's not just a matter of connection between a member's content and the procedure in this law, it's a general rule that we all need to stick to. At least I resent the urgency of the procedure. I am giving my fellow counterpart Pavicic's support because he remains a message that not because an emergency procedure is dishonest, but because it produces common damage that whenever we can avoid the urgency of the procedure and then we will not have the debate of that kind whether and how important the procedure is. The National Bank did not break any law, no procedure, but it is a paradigm, and it is important to talk about this paradigm which because we are just waiting for a lot of draft laws that are harmonising with directives or have been amended and complemented by laws that are harmonising with directives. It would be good to have the awareness that making a plan in which content is discussed leaves enough time to leave beyond any doubt that the content of a provision is best possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16438	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16439	Very brief, Mr. Chairman. Since we've been talking about procedures all day, something that absolutely has nothing to do with insurance except a couple of colleagues, and I've been listening very carefully to almost all the MPs today, about the profession, about the subject of the law, not a word. These last speeches look to me like a kind of ash-slap. You know, emergency procedure is a harmful procedure. Excuse me, is an emergency procedure part of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly? Yes, it is. Did this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the rules of this congregation majority and the SNS? It's not. This Rules of Procedure, which provides for an emergency procedure, are rules of the DS and the former regime which now says the emergency procedure is harmful. You yourself admit that you made a harmful document. You're telling yourself it's harmful. We'll change that too. I'd rather talk about things here, so to say, okay, laws are passed, laws are passed like this. Here's how we adopted the Insurance Act. I didn't hear that procedure. I haven't heard a single example, but I've heard it so many times today, and it's very precise that my esteemed colleague Orlic calculated how many times the procedure, procedure, procedure has been repeated. The procedure under the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly is respected. Here, gentlemen, a folder of opinion of the insurance companies around which this law is being targeted, i.e. tang. Some opinions are good, mostly. Let them say it could've been better. But most say their opinion was respected, that it was discussed with them, that it was a public debate. Now we want to talk about a public debate in the National Assembly where we've been hearing about nothing about insurance for six or seven hours today. Nothing, I am building on those Members of the People and I apologize to those MPs who spoke of it both Mrs. Karavidic and Mrs. Chikiriz. The second amendment - nothing. They show only the skill of going out on stage and getting the opportunity to be lit up by the reflectors, but when you see ignorance on that stage and under these reflectors, hand-wronging and calling for something that doesn't work, it's neither time nor place, nor is the National Assembly for such things. Show me what you're on. Show me where you are and what did you do for 8, 12 or how many years in power? How did you adopt the Insurance Act? Following an emergency procedure, April 19th, 2004. You are referring to a constitution you did not vote for, which you have obstructed. You're referring to some things you haven't done. We do better, we work in accordance with the law, we work in accordance with the Constitution, we work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and what you say – you have made a document that is harmful, it speaks more about you than about SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16440	According to my records, we have already discussed the amendment to the name and to Article 34. Is that right? Have we passed this amendment? Now it's your turn? National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic, together submitted to the 34th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16441	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 34 speaks of conditions under which the National Bank may refuse to refuse consent to increase or obtain qualified participation in an insurance company. Our amendment is that point 3 that exists in this article is deleted for the simple reason that it is already in Article 32, and point 2 of Article 34 says that the request will be rejected if the conditions laid down in Article 32 are not met, so that we believe that the surplus of this point 3 is not necessary here, because the almost identical text is in Article 32, if it is not met as one of the conditions of Article 32, then no temporary consent will be issued, and simply this point here is excess. I cannot understand the reason why this amendment was rejected, except for the need to reject all amendments proposed by the opposition today for the proposed laws. Is it because someone thinks that we didn't have enough time to get to know this law, because the law is passed by emergency procedure, as the Rules of Procedure says. But the matter is not in the Rules of Procedure, the matter must exist in the Rules of Procedure, but cannot be misused, which is constantly done in this term, because there are no these urgent reasons why circumstances have changed and what are the circumstances that force Serbia to pass this law in the short term. Why hasn't this law been put into practice before, if there's a deadline? Why this assembly was brought before that deadline to discuss the law, by a brief procedure, by an urgent procedure, by a brief procedure, without the possibility that MPs could prepare quality for the debate. We haven't heard of an international deadline, we haven't heard of it. There are directives that need to be harmonised. If they are related to the opening of chapters, there is no opening of chapters and there will be no more than three months. So there's no reason for urgency. If the reason for the urgency is what the governor said two days ago, you weren't there, so maybe you didn't hear that. She said they must separate insurance companies that will deal with life insurance and non-life insurance and that the deadline expires at the end of the year. It is not a matter of Serbia's international obligations, which are referred to by the Rules of Procedure under which the law is laid down by an urgent procedure. Let's hear what the deadline is, when that deadline expires and see why we are then put here in a position to have to adopt this law before that deadline...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16442	Sir, please return to the amendment. Don't throw it to the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16443	I beg you, Mr. Chairman, you know that throwing in an O.R. is punishable in this Rules of Procedure and I am asking you to ensure the conduct of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16444	I know, that's why I said it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16445	I ask you to ensure here that we can work under normal conditions, because I have no intention of getting used to certain MPs. So the explanation given to reject this amendment is unacceptable to us, because I explained exactly what the substance of the amendment is. So, one point that is too high is deleted, which is already in Article 32(2), you speak if the applicant does not meet at least one of the conditions set out in Article 32. I don't understand why this amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16446	On behalf of the members and members of the 35th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16447	I am honored to join Mr Pavicevic and others today who defend this dignity of Parliament and procedure and regardless of what we have heard explicitly and content has nothing to do with it and that the mere respect for the bad Rules of Procedure which we all agree on, which the parliamentary majority has been able to change for two years, is either not, or because it does not, or because it does not know, is the mother of essence. You can't do any good if you don't follow procedure. It doesn't matter if it's the Insurance Act of Article 35 or if it's about anything else. It is something that must be shown and proved on this day and in the days to come, until New Year's Eve before this House and that absolutely good laws, if good procedures came before MPs, will have absolute support for the New Party's MPs and we showed that a few weeks ago when three, four, five, eight amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16448	Mr. Zivkovic, please move to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16449	... adopted. Of course, this has everything to do with Article 35 and the title above, which is – co-operation with foreign supervisory authorities, Article 35: "When the applicant is required to obtain consent from Article 31 of this Act, a person from the financial sector established or resident abroad, the National Bank of Serbia shall co-operate with foreign supervisory authorities to determine whether that person is under regular supervision in the home country and whether he respects the regulations of that State, or whether he fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 32 of this Act". This is an exemplar member of the 35th what is the unbreakable link between procedure and essence. Of course, these other members are important, but Article 35 is especially important because it speaks in one simple way about not being able to do without a procedure that needs to be brought into line with another country, to do the work that is the essence of this law. Of course, it has nothing to do with this article in 35th that the NBS has recently allowed the collection of motor vehicle insurance by 40% against any economic parameter that exists in this country, and that is at great shame and damage to the citizens of Serbia. If we have over two million registered motor vehicles in Serbia, an increase of 40% is a dramatic attack on citizens' standards. Of course, Article 35 has something to do with this unauthorized increase, as much as it is then, as it is now trying to do, that the essence, which is to increase the profits of one lobby group, shows that it was done by procedure, because there is the jurisdiction of the NBS to approve such an enormous, unwarranted, that I am not a mild man essentially, I would say, criminal increase, but I'm not going to say that. So, this whole procedure, as well as the submission of amendments, did five, 10, 12, we have proposed 513 amendments in the hope that they would have the fate of those eight amendments that were adopted the other day. However, there is obviously less hearing here to respect procedures, and thus less hearing to respect the essence. If by procedure that in this way, practically without a public debate, the expert debate with insurance companies is quite fine and it has to do with Article 35 I've been talking about all the time, but it's not a public debate. The laws are not passed because of the director and owner of insurance companies, but because of citizens who are users of the insurance. So citizens should know that. People's MPs are by all definitions, and even by definition which is now valid in Serbia, representatives of citizens and we have an obligation, not the right, to do our job by explaining to the citizens what awaits them, if some law changes. Of course, there is no chance that failure to adopt a member of this 35th law would endanger the legal stability of Serbian citizens, because of course there is a law that regulates this area, there is no legal void. That law is probably not so bad, since it lasted these 10 years, with the correction that somewhere in July or May 2004 or April, when the law was passed...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16450	I ask you, Mr. Zivkovic, to return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16451	... who also had a member of 35, as well as this... Don't beg me, try to have a criterion that's in line. The previous speaker did not mention the law, so it was not noted. I'm talking about article 35 and a law that should be abolished under article 278, when this law is passed, and I want to say that this law was passed at a time when I was not involved in politics, nor Mr Pavicevic. If it was meant for the Democrats sitting here, they voted against the law. As far as the procedure is concerned, that's all. It will by no means be the MPs of the New Party by investing the amendments in Article 35. The law on ensuring that neither the political stability of the state nor the security of citizens nor the freedom of business nor the business of insurance services will endanger any interest in this country and that these interests are both procedural and essential and legal. That's what she needs to learn. What you said just before, what the National Bank representative said earlier, that the procedure did not matter, after such a statement in countries closer to democracy than Serbia is resigned.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16452	Thank you. The word is from Vice Governor Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16453	I certainly didn't say the procedure didn't matter. We can take a look if there's a break. But I repeat -- the National Bank of Serbia, which was confirmed by Mrs Comic, did not violate the procedure. So since she has not broken the procedure, and you are constantly referring to the procedure in the light of each amendment, therefore, the National Bank of Serbia has not broken the procedure. In your Rules of Procedure, they write the reasons. For that reason, this law is on the agenda today. We didn't break the procedure. That's what it says in your Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16454	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Third Belgrade High School, who are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Zivkovic, there is no reason for replication. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16455	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I accept that Mrs Dragutinovic said that the procedure is very important and that in all segments of our society it must be respected, even when the law is passed, but also in many other things. It's not just this procedure that needs to be respected. Let's say, there's a procedure for producing electricity, renewables in thermal power plants, hydroelectric power plants, and then...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16456	Mr. Granny, you too have to stick to the agenda. You're talking about the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16457	I'll stick to the agenda like everyone else, Mr. Chairman. Let me just make a thread. Then that electricity is delivered to consumers, businesses and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So then, in the same procedure, most citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the economy pay for that electricity, so that the electricity industry can be modernised again, go into new production, into renewable energy sources. But then, when politicians, who bring barrels instead of ideas, say, break procedure, account instead of bank, instead of pay, then put in that barrel, and then light up, roll off somewhere – so what, gentlemen, are we going to do with that procedure? Is that a respected procedure to the end? It's not. Therefore, if someone is invited to the procedure, they must be called to procedures everywhere, not just where it suits him and how it suits him – a little barrel, a little procedure, a little procedure in barrels, etc. I really don't understand what they want more with this procedure? When can it be? When are the bills or when it comes to laws? When does this procedure apply? On the other hand, the amendment which deletes Article 35 would be deleted – when the applicant is required to obtain consent from Article 31 of this Act, a person from the financial sector that has its headquarters or residence abroad, the National Bank cooperates, that word I like – cooperates with foreign supervisory authorities to determine whether it is a person under regular supervision, and I like the supervision, these are still financial matters, co-operation and supervision two key words in this Article 35, which is why the SNS is of course against such an amendment which, such things, such things, are deleted, and we are in favour of the procedure – from the process of passing laws, and to the production process, supply and collection of electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16458	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16459	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it seems to me that the applicant of the amendment is a little late for the debate, but I don't blame him, but it was quite a discussion of who these laws are being passed for? Laws such as this regulate the obligations of insurance companies that they have towards the state, the supervision of the state and their obligations to the citizens. So this law is passed in the interest of citizens. Ten days later, how many fellow MPs had the law in their hands, crying for another five, so if you haven't read it in 10, and you love the citizens, you won't have another five. When it comes to whether this article should be accepted in 35 and whether it threatens political security, according to the representatives of the New Party, are absolutely right when they say they are not jeopardising law and political security in Serbia, they can no longer threaten anything. With one way or another endangering the property of the Republic of Serbia, jeopardising Serbia's social security, making politically unstable situations in Serbia ended, the citizens said in the elections, and it is clear that the party's representatives have not yet realized that the elections in March 2014 both they and the political party that put them on their list.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16460	By amendment, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16461	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, very shortly after the amendment. So, with the greetings of distinguished colleagues who have joined us in the meantime and our distinguished guests, I would like to invite all the people's representatives in the hall, so all of you, pay attention, I will also accept today's indirect proposed formulation and those who understand in today's topic much better than I, nothing disputed, goodwill is wrong, that we still keep Article 35 in the form in which it is proposed by the legislators because it is important, because co-operation with foreign supervisory authorities regarding the consent of Article 31, i.e. the conditions of Article 32, certainly has its place in the law, on the one hand. On the other hand, when we look at the argument that we have heard from the amendment promoter, its strength, its strength, and first of all in two parts, first of all, about the quality of Article 35, and that there are only good things in it that define the procedure in the right way because from that point of view they are very high quality, and two, that everything we will hear later, or what we have heard in the explanation of the amendment has nothing to do with the amendment itself, the thing is more than clear. I suggest we refuse this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16462	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Zivkovic, I have not heard that someone has spoken offensively. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Just because you didn't hear it doesn't mean it isn't said. It is mentioned, but nothing offensive. You can get a replica if it was offensive. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: They said we threatened Serbia's security. ) The word is Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16463	With all due respect to your definition of political, I ask you to still hear what is said here, because the worst way is to speak of the New Foreigner and of us who are in it, that we cannot endanger anyone, which was affirmative, because we never wanted to do it, nor did we ever do it. It is mentioned in the explanation that the social security of citizens has been undermined. The last time I was involved in public debt policy was below nine billion euros, and now it's almost 23 billion. The euro was 62 dinars, and now it's almost 130 dinars. Unemployment was...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16464	Mr. Zivkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16465	This is a replica. I'm not talking about the amendment. This is a replica where I prove that the false claims are predecessors.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16466	You haven't proven to me that anything is offensive, and now you're trying to challenge new replicas with a new replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16467	No, I'm telling facts that are verifiable. So no claim he made before is true in any way. Finally, something that has nothing to do with it, and I welcome the students of the Third Belgrade High School, convinced that smart and beautiful children are going there. I know it best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16468	On behalf of the members and members of the 36th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16469	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected colleagues, respected chairman, Mr Arsenovicu, respected Mrs Dragutinovic, respected guests from the NBS, the national representation was reduced for this year to the role of a voting machine and to receive the knowledge of the already completed acts, gentlemen. I'm sure about the amendment to Article 36, we can imagine who might say this. This was said on October 18th 1913 by Jovan Skerlic, politician, famous literary critic, respected gentlemen, and we can apply that sentence equally today, a hundred years later... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16470	I won't let you do that. Please, or you'll talk about the amendment, leave Skerlic and Ducic and I don't know who's here anymore. When there's a political tribune, you're talking about them, and now I'm asking you to focus on the amendment. Here you go, if you'll follow the amendment. If you won't follow the amendment, I won't let you speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Mr Arsenovic, chaired by, respected Mrs Dragutinovic, respected NBS guests and respected students of the Third Belgrade High School, have submitted an amendment to Article 36. Proposal for a law on insurance relating to alienation, reduction, qualified participation. Dear gentlemen, we have explained very clearly why it is important to delete Article 36 from this Bill proposal, but here, Mr Arsenovic, I would like to add to the argument we have already offered another argument based on which I believe that MPs should accept the amendment of the People's MPs of the New Party. I now address Mrs Dragutinović, of course also the MPs in our National Assembly, I now call here on Article 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is above the Rules of Procedure and above all other acts, Mr Arsenovicu, and everything related to the amendment to Article 36. It's a proposal for a law on insurance. In Article 4. The Constitution of Serbia is careful what it says, gentlemen, to make it more clear to us what we are fighting for here: "The legal order is unique. The regulation of the authorities rests on the division of the authorities in legislative, executive and judicial matters."
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16472	Mr. Pavicevic, don't, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16473	Mr. Arsenovicu, about the procedure of an important principle... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16474	I'm not gonna let you fool me like that. I don't know what less word to say. When the Constitution is debated, then we will discuss the Constitution. I won't allow such a discussion. If I have to, I'm gonna get up and get out of here. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: That's right. I'm not leaving, Mr. Zivkovic, because of you. National MP Janko Veselinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16475	The Honorable Chairman, Article 27 and in relation to Article 106. The Honorable Chairman, you were just before, during the presentation of the first-row SNS MPs, smiling happily, and I wasn't sure if you had any comics in front of you or laughing at the fact that the MP was talking about the subject beyond the agenda, about the electricity system, about connections to the electricity system and other topics. Do you remember a speech from two speakers ago?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16476	Mr. Veselinovic, you had to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure at that time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16477	But you have an unequal relationship with the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16478	Then you talk like that, and don't put anything on me that made me smile. If that was suspicious of you, then you should have reacted. I have no indignation at all, let me tell you right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16479	Let me finish. So, I'm talking about an unequal course of action to the fact that the MP is speaking from a position or opposition. So the mention of Skrelic was more in the spirit of explaining the amendments than talking about the electricity system regarding disputed amendments. Where is your principle, where are you from being the first among the equals, to treat both the position and the opposition? So, you've made a similar situation to the last time you presided when you were laughing or, I would say, I'm laughing at some of the MPs who made you feel comfortable at that moment. I'm asking the Parliament to make a statement about this, that you've violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16480	Since you've already made your point, I won't even give an explanation. So, on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will declare itself in the day of the vote. Mr. Veselinović, I will now take the opportunity, when we are already talking about principle, dignity, etc. Last time, you also reacted similarly and went out. You didn't listen to any reason because you turned your back on me. If something isn't dignity, it's not dignity to turn your back on me. I'm still the chairman here. And I kept my mouth shut. Now you're looking for a hair in my egg, and you know very well that I warned Mr. Babic to come back on the subject. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: You did not take away his word. I didn't take it because it's back on the agenda. I also twice allowed Mr. Pavicevic to return to the agenda when he started talking about Skerlic. Now, when he started on the Constitution, then I reacted a little harder. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16481	Article 108, Mr. Chairman. Of course I don't want to vote on it, 'cause there's a big, huge indiscipline here. It requires respect for the procedure, because in this way the National Assembly is respected, and on the other hand they are not respected first among the equals in this National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16482	Mr. Babic, you advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Explain what I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16483	Because, Mr. Chairman, you had to protect yourself more than the National Assembly to which you chair and to show the MPs, who think you have comics in front of you, not serious material, because I think such expressions and such humiliations to you personally, and if nothing else, they should respect the collegiance, respect your age, respect your internship in the National Assembly, respect your reconciliation to which you run the National Assembly, and not that they themselves make comics and those very funny comics.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16484	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I'm not too sensitive about trying and belittled, etc. I'm aware, and I think I'm doing everything I can to run this assembly properly. I'm not sinless, and I allow both objections and suggestions and so on. It's up to each and every one of us and you how and how they behave here in this congregation. So that's why I'm toleranced when it comes to me personally. I'm trying to protect others from myself and others. Thank you. Since you said we wouldn't plead, then it's clear. No more reported after the amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 37th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16485	On the 16th page of this Bill, the title is – the legal consequences of illicit acquisition – the increasing of qualified participation, which is further explained through Article 37, in a way that is to say – if the person acquires, or increases the qualified participation in the action society for insurance at a level or beyond the level prescribed in Article 31(1) of this Act, whose erasure we are also seeking, i.e. to become a parent society without the prior consent of the National Bank of Serbia - the National Bank of Serbia will impose a solution on this person to alienate the acquired, or increased qualified participation in this society within a period which cannot be longer than three months from the day of adoption of this solution, which is a clear appeal to the procedure. Following the adoption of the decision referred to in Article 1, the person referred to in this Article shall no longer be able to exercise the voting right directly or indirectly in the insurance company, the right to dividend or other rights arising from acquired or increased qualified participation, nor may it affect the management of this society or the specific policy of this society. The insurance company shall ensure that, following the adoption of the decision referred to in Article 1, the person referred to in Article 2, does not exercise rights in the insurance company of that position, or that it cannot affect the management of this company or of the business policy of the company. If the person referred to in Article 1 does not alienate the acquired or increased qualified participation in a manner which is and within the time limit set out in this Article, the legal work on the basis of which it is acquired, or the increased qualified participation, shall be zero. National banks of Serbia solution from the position of the first member...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16486	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16487	... submits to the register of the competent authority, the Securities Commission, the Central Register and the Depositary...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16488	Time, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16489	... the clearing of securities of value. I just want to show the Serbian public the simplicity of the matter that deals with this law by reading this whole article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16490	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this amendment be rejected to Article 37 of this Law, which reads, and how different than that, is deleted. Of course, I find it unacceptable to delete this article, such as the inadmissible explanation given to us by the amendment’s promoter. Article 37 The insurance law is a very important member. It shall determine the legal consequences of the acquisition, i.e. an increase in qualified participation without the consent of the NBS, which shall cover the NBS order to alienate such participation and other details. I don't think anyone here has any fundamental objections to this article, and the amendment promoter asks that this article be deleted and offers us one sentence in the form of an explanation, one single sentence. But when you read, Mr. Chairman, that sentence, you see it's not an explanation. That's one sentence that doesn't have any essential meaning. A real explanation for such an amendment lies in one, I would say, the pathological need to humiliate the National Assembly in every way possible, to humiliate MPs, to humiliate Serbian citizens, but it will not succeed because Serbian citizens are not naive and do not accept such a cheap way of collecting political points. I hope we reject this amendment in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16492	I'm still asking you to let go of those hard words. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16493	You see, Mr. Chairman, I have appeared before in the form of a single appeal to the majority, that, if they consider it simple, they can easily overcome this situation, allow the opposition to explain their amendments to which they have full rights, including this amendment, to explain the motives, to give an explanation. If you think there's something wrong with it, then let the opposition say his own thing. I'm glad that you keep talking about it, and you're talking about how pointless this is, how saving is, and you keep talking about something that's supposed to be pointless. That's absurd. I think it's much worse, here, we've had an example of that now, Mr. Chairman, the previous speaker says someone has a pathological need to do something, so a sick need. You, when he's finished saying – don't say such hard words and thank you for that. But at that point, you should have warned him because he called us sick. It happens here every day. The situation is a little better when you're chairing. When Becic comes, I couldn't even talk about this. Now, let the citizens see that we are constantly marked as pathological subjects in this country by people who have nothing to do with medicine, nor is this an office. But since this is both the court and the D.A.'s office, which wouldn't be an office. I simply had to look back on this because I notice a systemic lack of understanding of the equal rights of all MPs, equal legitimacy, regardless of the number of votes they received. If you don't understand that, then you stand in a column of people who think who has less to do, let them have fewer rights, which is very dangerous for democracy in Serbia. All of us in opposition believe that these members should either be deleted or done in a different way. We explained that. I don't see what the need to talk about all the time. I understand, say, some of the colleagues here, for example. Orlic or Djukanovic, who got up and said – here, it's not good because if there were no corrections, then they'd have a worse situation. I accept that, but I can't accept anyone saying it here all the time, listening to it for hours -- what you're doing, gentlemen, it's pointless, pathology, it doesn't make sense, you're small, we're big. Who cares? It's the rearview mirror again, because there's no results, so you need mirrors. So let the opposition explain. If you're not able to let them explain, I don't know, I can only give collegiate advice, or go outside or somehow keep it quiet, as advice. Of course you have the right to react, it's normal. But I'm telling you as a larger political entity, a stronger political entity, I keep asking you, please, give more citizens to show that you are who you are all the time. We have to look for something that's integrity and something that's power with you. We can't find that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16494	I have a little comment to make, although your discussion has been subject to the amendment. In principle, I support any debate that is dignified, and in this sense I can only appeal to all MPs to show dignity in the conduct of the debate not only on these amendments, but at all in any debate held in the National Assembly, and that would really be my wish if this level of debate were reached. We were lucky to have had such an argument here in this congregation once. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16495	Mr. Chairman, Art. 106th and 107th. I would like someone to tell me what the connection between this warning to the ruling majority, colleagues and colleagues who spoke in this part of the session and the amendment by which Mr Stefanovic, I hope, received his word and spoke for three and a half minutes? I'd like you to explain that to me first. Secondly, under Article 107, which is the dignity of the National Assembly, things have been said that are not true, Mr. Chairman. You had to stop. It is said that an appeal is made to the ruling majority to allow colleagues who have submitted amendments to explain these amendments. They do it all the time. There is no mechanism nor that anyone has rebelled and said – we do not allow a word. I have said at least three times from this pay phone – it is good that this number of amendments has been submitted, because through these amendments, the amendments will finally read the law and finally see what that value is and vote in the voting day. Then what is it, Mr. Chairman? Do not let the congregation speaker serve as a basis for falseness. You are under obligation to interrupt the MP and to warn him that no one has been taken from him. Anyone who has appeared as an applicant for the amendment has been given a word by the Rules of Procedure set out in time and that it uses that time to explain its amendments. Then what is it about not allowing the opposition to express its views? Please, don't be insecure people. Do not use the National Assembly to express false views, as Mr. Borislav Stefanovic has just done, for three minutes without warning him that you have not even warned him. No one here is forbidden to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16496	Time, Mr. Granny. I owe you a short answer. Unfortunately, I intervened when Mr. Markovic exhibited. In his last sentence, he used, in my opinion, an offensive word, and he conditionally relied on it, and I, behold, found the need to let a man speak his mind. I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I agree, Babic, fully with you, and I believe that no one here has any intention of holding back, but we have to admit, I don't even think they're malicious, but in a lack, in enthusiasm, etc., they say some words that are not appropriate to this debate. In that sense, I'm also sometimes tolerable, sometimes even a few things, and I don't respond in time, but let me judge when and how to react. I'm guessing you're not asking us to plead. No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 38th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected NBS guests, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 38 concerning the obligation of the corporate insurance companies to provide information. We have also offered, Mr Arsenovic, an explanation, and I have noticed that some MPs are not well-oriented about this argument. For example, as regards the amendment to Article 38, we have made it perfectly clear that the amendment has been submitted in order to bring the amendment to Article 1 in line with the defined objective. What is our defined objective regarding amendments to Article 1? We have announced this, since the insurance bill provides that the application of the largest number of provisions will begin after six months of the day of entry into force to consider, Mr Arsenovic, that it would be appropriate for him to have these five draft laws here in the assembly according to the regular procedure. I, of course, once again read the explanation of the people who performed and wrote an explanation for the emergency procedure from the NBS and concluded that it was not in agreement with Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of course, responsibility for such action is not, above all, on the people of the NBS. You, dear Mrs Dragutinović, can try it, but first of all, the responsibility is on our MPs, and I agree. Here, the majority allowed one explanation to pass and for this member of the bill that is not in accordance with Article 167, which means that the ruling coalition MPs do not adhere to the procedure. It's inappropriate for me completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16498	On behalf of the members and members of the 39th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16499	Article 39. – the obligation of legal persons with qualified participation to supply information. This article is such that it needs to be deleted because the whole process of proposing this law is bad, but let's also read what it says here. Perhaps it will help understand the importance of the procedure. "The legal persons with a qualified participation in the insurance company which have the consent of Article 31 of this Act shall be obliged to provide information and information to the National Bank of Serbia on newly appointed members of the managing authority of those persons, on persons who acquire or become closely associated in those legal entities, as well as on any status change, within 30 days of their appointment, i.e. from the date of knowledge of the future status change. The National Bank of Serbia may ask the person referred to in Article 1 to provide it with other information relating to themselves and/or persons closely related to them, which is relevant for clarifying or interpreting the data and information contained in this article or for determining whether the changed conditions under which the National Bank has granted acquisition are, or to increase the qualified participation in the insurance company. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” In addition to the essential and procedural remarks, I have to put one spelling remark here, which is that in point 2 of the sentence - The National Bank can go from person to person, etc., and/or persons with whom they are closely connected and, always in front of the word "a" puts a comma. It's not the vice governor's fault, but someone at the National Bank should also be involved in lecturing. It wouldn't improve this law, but it would be at least spellingly correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16500	On behalf of the members and members of the 40th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Mrs Dragutinovic and the Honorable Guests of the National Bank of Serbia, I will, on the occasion of article 40, show how much our argument from the explanation for all these amendments, which read – is deleted, justified. Dear gentlemen, please listen, let's just make sure of it. Article 40 says: "If the National Bank of Serbia finds that a person who has acquired or increased qualified participation in the Insurance Action Society affects that company contrary to the principles of business under Article 19 of this Law, it may impose a temporary measure on this person to end such action, including the restriction of the exercise of voting rights on the basis of qualified participation." Now we have the key part for my argument. The second view says: "The measure set out in Article 1 of the National Bank of Serbia informs the register of the competent authority, in order to record that measure." Let's imagine, gentlemen, that it doesn't matter at all whether the NBS informs the register of the competent authority or not, but that it will only apply this possibility from the position of the first member. Dear gentlemen, of course this is important issues, as in our National Assembly, it must be an important question in which procedure. We discuss bill proposals and adopt these bill proposals. Mr. Arsenovicu, I didn't mention John Skerlic here just like that. Dear Mr. Arsenovic, I wanted to point out that we are facing today the same problems that existed in the Assembly 100 years ago. Is it possible that this is the case, dear Mr. Arsenovic and honored gentlemen?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16502	Today is the debate on amendments and I still say that I do not see the need to expand the debate beyond the amendments. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16503	Ladies and gentlemen, the MP of this amendment obviously doesn't realize how serious the role of supervision of insurance operations is, so he can write such amendments. The National Bank is the one who cares about how insurance companies work, how they have the resources, what their reserves are, who manages those funds, and within those powers provided for by this law. The biggest problem, it stands out here, like this problem procedure, so I guess that's why they don't understand the law. I can give them some advice. As a national MP who for 12 years was an MP, who did not support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it was not difficult for us from the SNS, on Saturdays, on Sundays, not during national holidays, not at night to come to the building, to read the laws, to write amendments in which it does not say "wipe" and to prepare for discussion. Our goal was to convince that other majority, that they were wrong, and we always went by argument, not procedure. Why is that? Why have we sacrificed so much, so it seems to me, it doesn't seem to me, but I know because we love Serbia. That's the problem, when you love something, then you're able to sacrifice yourself, if you insist on procedures, then don't swear on any interest or love, because then it doesn't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16504	The name above the members and members of the 41st amendment was jointly filed by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16505	Taking away the consent to acquire and increase qualified participation is a subject covered by Article 41, but since it is a matter of consultation by my colleagues, I see legitimately, since my colleague has not just been interrupted while giving advice, then I will return with counseling before I move on to the essence. It is very difficult that any MP on the globe could have been a member of the SNS for 12 years, since as far as I can remember, that party was founded five or six years ago, and if the predecessor is invited to light up the traditions of the Serbian Radical Party whose roots, but everything that is being thrown at the roots and carried with it, then I express my deep respect for his victim. How you stayed at night and what amendments you wrote when you were all in the Serbian Radical Party, it is seen how your current president, or Dr Vojislav Seselj, behaves. But let's go back to Article 41. The National Bank of Serbia makes a solution to the withdrawal of consent in order to increase the qualified participation of the insurance company if it determines, under one - that the person who has the qualified participation listed in the consent received from the untrue and incorrect data, under two - that the person who received the same participation no longer fulfils at least one of the conditions laid down in Article 32 of this Act, which we also asked to delete, that a person who has a qualified participation increase this participation without the prior consent of the National Bank beyond the levels for which this consent is required, under four - that a person who has a qualified participation can endanger a stable and secure operation of society. We are seeking to delete this member, and in an existing law that has been in force since 2004, there is already protection on this basis and on the other hand, and the 2004 law will apply for at least another half year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16506	I ask the messengers to respect the time, each of you to take a better word, take 15 to 20 seconds. You've got two minutes and I'm asking you to stick to it, replica, because that's how it is. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16507	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at least those who were in the O.R. haven't heard at any time that I said I was an MP for SNS for 12 years. I said I was an MP who had not supported the government of the Republic of Serbia for 12 years, and there is a big difference in that. Furthermore, I am not ashamed of being in the Serbian Radical Party. The party at that time saved Serbia from the DOS government. I am proud to have participated in the destruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia chosen by the DOS. Why did I leave the SRS? Because she failed the 2008 pre-election promises Tomislav Nikolic made at the time. That's why I left the SRS. We founded the SNS, which they laughed at when we promised it would be the strongest party in Serbia in two, three years. Now it is. Why is she the best? Because we suffered because of this same Serbia to make her feel better than those who led her at the time, than those who have gambled the trust of Serbian citizens. Like I said, when you love something, you're willing to sacrifice yourself. That's why it wasn't hard for us to come on Saturdays and Sundays and when the national holidays were to work on amendments and prepare for discussion in the Serbian Parliament. A good part of these discussions has brought this result to the SNS. You can learn something from those of us who have been the opposition for 12 years, because I believe the next 25 years are just enough to learn what it looks like. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. He mentioned me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16508	Mr. Zivkovic, I don't see a basis for replication. He didn't mention you. Only Mr. Arsic explained his position as an MP in the period during which he was an opposition. On that basis, I gave the replica to Mr. Arsic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: What does it have to do with the subject? Mr. Zivkovic, I listen to what anyone here is saying. I kept my mouth shut the whole time because you were talking about Mr. Arsic's discussion. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Stefanovic, let's just get some things straight. I'm trying to track as hard as I can. Unfortunately, because of the noise and the stories, I often don't understand individuals, and that's where they're wrong. I'm trying to keep track of everyone as much as my options allow. That's why I don't allow a replica. You have no basis. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16509	Article 106 has been injured. Mr. Chairman, although I appreciate you very much and I can understand what you said often because of the noise in the O.R., etc. Dear counterpart Arsic, whom I also appreciate earlier spoke without a single touch with the agenda point. Not one moment was spoken of on the subject, nor about the amendment, nor about what was said by Ambassador Zivkovic, but it was said that I was not the one, I was against the authorities for 12 years, which I think is all true, I can even say that I am very happy, that Mr Arsic is a rare example here of something we have not heard so far, that he is proud of his radical past. So, despite the unusuality of Vojislav Seselj being sent this way, I think we try to stick to what we're talking about, because you know there's a lot of things that I could pick up on the amendment, so let me talk about how they didn't bring down DOS but someone else, but there's no need for that right now. I think that Mr. Arsic, in a professional sense, really got into a really good explanation for the lack of any amendments, so I don't see why going into this field which is a fundamental field of the past where there's nothing nice, especially on the side of the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16510	Please don't win. It really doesn't make sense. I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I support and it seems to me that we're going in that direction to talk more and more about the subject and less about the other. Would you like to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. On section 5, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Arsenovic, the respected Mrs Dragutinovic and the respected NBS guests, is very well, I think and I appreciate it very much here, as we continue a serious debate on the 281st amendment submitted by the New Party MPs to this Security Bill, which was referred to by the NBS in the assembly procedure. This is where we submitted the amendment to Article 42. The proposal for a law that starts a new section, so a new sheet has been turned to say, and here we propose to delete all of this here which writes – a license to carry out insurance operations of the founding assembly and enrollment in the register, and then another title – insurance license and one name above Article 42. – a request for authorisation of work and a member of 42nd overall. I must say, this is one of the most extensive members of this bill. I just have to offer another argument here that can serve other parties' MPs to vote for this bill. Dear gentlemen, there is no need to underestimate the efforts of the MPs who, in an argument of the importance of the evaluation of the procedure, are not to be underestimated that one bill should be adjudicated in this way. Dear gentlemen, look out, we have endured amendments here before, as we have now done, and 10 out of 289 has been adopted. Now is the chance, dear Mr. Aresnovic, to, for example. adopt the amendment to Article 42, as well as any remaining 280 amendments to this proposal. Dear gentlemen, I agree with Mr Babic when he says this is not an obstruction, but that this is a desirable way of working, but what is also desirable is destructing poor government in Serbia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16512	On behalf of the members and members of the 43rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16513	Article 43 deals with the business plan and says in its content – the business plan of the insurance company must contain 1) the basic business policy, 2) the group of insurance or type of insurance that the company will carry - again without a score - which is subject to the authorisation to work with the structure and nature of the risks covered and future obligations under 3) the programme of planned resecuritisation, 4) the assessment of the required insolvency margin, 5) the assessment of the elements of the guarantee reserve, i.e. the fulfilment of the conditions relating to the adequateness of capital under the provisions of this law, 6) the planned amount of the cost of establishment and the method of covering those costs and 7) the elaborate on expected operating results for the three-year period - and now has a score - and the particularly expected revenue from the premiums, expected expenditure based on damage, the estimated cost of carrying out the expected insurance with the expected balance of the expected balances - point - point - the point of reference to be covered by the guarantee. This article shall contain the opinion of the authorised actuary in the work relating to whether the expected premium of the company’s shares is a premium, etc. etc. Although there is one visible progress here in terms of the spelling of this article and that somewhere in front of the word "a" is placed a decimal, which should always be done, and this member because of the procedure and one violent relationship towards the highest democratic home of our society does not have our trust, and we are asking for its erasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16514	National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and members of the 44th amendment together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16515	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsenovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic, and respected guests from the NBS, I see that there is a live debate, I suppose, on the amendment of the New Party's MPs to the Security Bill, which I think is fine and, obviously, is recorded here, not only by our guests from the NBS, but also by all MPs, especially the MPs of the SNS, that Zoran Zivkovic and I, while preparing these amendments, and also the amendment to Article 44, Mr Arsenovic, were guided by the direction of the general good. Be careful, dear Mr. Arsenovic and respected gentlemen, the direction towards the common good can also be measurable and certainly the question can be asked now – and how can one's direction towards the common good be measured? It is by that argument and by the criteria which we have put in account for the amendment to Article 44, and this argument, that criterion, gentlemen-respected, concerns respect for the procedure and respect for the rule of law. Only one who adheres to the rules, who respects the institutions and adheres to the procedures, can only be said to be directed towards the general good, and we here today warn that there is a possibility of a slip from that path to the common good. If in this way we have confirmed that there is a focus towards general good, then we can also talk about other ideals, Mr Arsenović, about justice, about fairness and honesty in a broader sense than what is otherwise well remembered here, which is a lot of talk about, and that is academic honesty as a common topic of our debate in the Assembly, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16516	On behalf of the members and members of the 45th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16517	Article 45 deals, of course, with the refusal to issue a work permit, where it is defined that the NBS will refuse to issue a licence to the insurance company - under 1) if the documentation and data required by the applicant is submitted incompletely, under 2) if the applicant has not demonstrated that it has the amount of the share capital required by Article 27 of this Act, which we have also requested and, fortunately, is not mentioned in it by the Constitution of Serbia, or Ducic, since it is clearly causing negative reactions for the chair, point 3) if the founding act or the proposal of the statute of society is not in accordance with the law and other regulations, 4) if the business plan of the company, the business policy proposals of Articles 6 and 7 to which we have not yet arrived, point 2 to 10) of this Act, i.e. the proposed system of management of society is not appropriate, 5) if persons who can obtain qualified to participate in the company would be significantly related to this entity, or to the fact, because of which is related to the company. Of course, we have a point 7) (9) (10) (10) (11) and the conclusion of this article states - if the NBS refuses to issue a work permit, it is required to state the reasons for this refusal, as the legislator is obliged to give an explanation of why the amendments we have made, or amendments to this law, which they will give, and this explanation was not given in a manner and in a text that would be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16518	On behalf of the members and members of the 46th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16519	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, dear colleagues, dear Mr Arsenovic, Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the NBS, I will try to convince the MPs from all MPs in these two minutes, as far as I have... So persuasion is part of our communication here. I can only by persuasion try to achieve what the goal is here, which is to accept the amendment of the New Party MPs to Article 46. Look out, gentlemen, it is now clear how difficult and hard it is with attention and analytical reading of the bill's proposals. Here we now have one complete absence of the concentration of MPs, for example. SNS, and we did not, Mr Arsenovicu, reach a third of this bill and then some MPs come and say, you could have done it in two days, in three days, in five days. Well, he can't be respected, gentlemen. Well, he can't, gentlemen, if we want to concentrate carefully. Here, we have today in this debate here and evidence. I have this one concentration and Mr. Zivkovic, because we have been able to read this bill before not once, but more than once. You've got a day, you've got a night, so what are you gonna do? This is some kind of responsible approach to work in the National Assembly, but it is difficult to focus analytically on reading a bill so soon. We have proof of that here now. I suggest, in fact, Mr. Chairman, that a break may be made now, not for an hour, but for half an hour, that the Members of the SNS rest a little, for example, and that after one break we continue our debate on our amendments, in order for it to be a serious, respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16520	Mr Pavicevic, allow me to lead the Assembly, and the National Assembly president determines the pace and pace of work of the Assembly. I preside in the time that I'm destined to do, and I'm trying to keep it safe. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: It is a proposal. I know it's a suggestion, but I also have to answer your procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16521	Dear Chairman, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Article 107, because I have recognised the demeaning of SNS MPs in my presentation, allegedly because they are not having a serious discussion. You know, a serious discussion can be conducted when you have serious amendments, and when you have an unserious approach, then it's really impossible. Feel free to continue like this, I think Serbian citizens see who is actually spending their money right through an abnormal number of amendments that just read, "is deleted". By the way, I agree that maybe you should set a break, that the former speaker rests from reading the law, because he hasn't even read it yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16522	Mr. Djukanovic, I did not experience Pavicevic in that regard. The more I think he was driven by fire and throw away, and that's why he's in that part. That's my conclusion, I may be wrong, but that's why I think there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You don't want us to plead an injury? Okay. Let's move on. On behalf of the members and members of the 47th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16523	Termination of work permit, Article 47. Since it's resentful that we're reading, I know it's one of the unusual works for a part of our colleagues across the street, but we will, of course, continue with that, and I think that qualifications of a guy who spends money and why money is being spent in the Assembly, first of all, that could be done, let's just say, so you can see...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16524	Please, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16525	Mr. Chairman, the predecessor spoke of spending money...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16526	Allow me, I won't count on this time, but we need to make it clear. So, Mr. Djukanovic advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure and in that sense he said, and you heard my answer, which I think was quite correct. Therefore, you should respect what I have said as chairman in the conclusion of the reasons for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's supposed to be your rapper. Now please don't go back to what Djukanovic said about spending money. He did, but I thought it wasn't like that. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16527	Thank you, Chairman, thank you for your support. Your position, I understand, is absolutely fundamental, procedurally and essentially not agreeing with the senseless attitude expressed by this former MP. Perhaps some MPs needed to be measured when they entered this congregation, to see what they were doing in this congregation. The work permit issued to the insurance company shall cease to be valid: 1) if the company’s founding assembly is not kept within the prescribed time limit; 2) if the company’s founders do not submit, within 30 days of the day of receipt of the work permit, an application for entry into the register of the competent authorities; (3) if the company does not start operations within one year from the date of entry into the register of the competent authority; (4) if the company does not carry out insurance operations for more than six months uninterrupted; (5) by transferring the entire insurance portfolio to another insurance company; 6) the status change of the company; 7) on the day of the adoption of a decision by the National Bank of Serbia on granting consent to implement and so on. There are many reasons that are procedural and fundamentally why some insurance company should lose its license to work, and these are the same reasons why Mr Pavicevic and I will not allow further degradation of this parliament. Thank you very much. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post. Injury of the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16528	Since you've already advertised the weather loudly, you're wrong, gentlemen MPs. In advance, when I responded to Zivkovic's exposure, I said I would make up for his time. That time was about one minute, and I let him do it. I didn't erase the previous time, I simply extended the time. If that's the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then please don't advertise. Here you go, Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16529	I'm re-advertising, Mr. Chairman, Article 107. In his presentation, the former speaker really insulted the apostle, seeking some measure. I can agree with that, say, to measure my property and yours, Mr. Zivkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16530	Mr. Djukanovic, don't... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Let it explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) He speaks to Mr. Zivkovic, replicating. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: You must allow him to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure in two minutes. ) Mr. Martinovic, at least you know very well that when it comes to the violation of the Rules of Procedure... (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: So what does that mean? That means he needs to explain to me what I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16531	I'll explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16532	Then don't talk to Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16533	Here, I'll do it for you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16535	Mr. Chairman, you should have reacted when someone, that is, the speaker of the past asked that MPs be measured here. I don't know what it is, but if I should be in the property, I'd be willing to agree to it, especially after his prime minister's term, to measure the property both mine and his and see who actually robbed the citizens of Serbia here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16536	I don't have that special comment, Mr. Djukanovic. Yes, it is, but I don't see it now that that's the reason for hurting the Rules of Procedure. I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Are you asking us to make a statement in the voting day about the injury? (No) Mr. Zivkovic, on what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16537	You think there's no basis for replica after this?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16538	On a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16539	If you don't think so, I respect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16540	You don't. On behalf of the members and members of the 48th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16541	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected colleagues in the National Assembly, respected Mr Arsenovic, Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the National Bank of Serbia, the People's MPs of the New Party also submitted an amendment to Article 48. The proposal for an insurance law, which now defines the founding assembly of the insurance company. We, of course, have prepared an explanation for each other and for the amendment to Article 48. For this member, that argument is given in one sentence, but in which we call for an explanation of the amendments to Article 1 of this proposal, and then, I think, it makes a good sense. What don't I understand about this situation? I think the comment against this amendment from the Serbian Progressive Party is diverse. For example, Mr Babic, as I understand it, says he supports – this is okay, this is a good approach, an appropriate way of working the MPs and he doesn't mind - let's move on. But Mr. Djukanovic here now says - it is not serious to discuss the amendments proposed in this way...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16542	Mr. Pavicevic, I just need to intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16543	Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16544	Go back to the amendment. Leave what Mr. Babic, Djukanovic, etc. said. You are required to explain the amendment and stick to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16545	Well, in our amendment to Article 48, it says the same thing as it says in Article 47, and what it said, the respected Mr. Arsenovic, Mr. Djukanovic, I mean in an inappropriate way, which is contrary to the qualification that Mr. Babic said about the same thing here. I therefore believe that there is some chance that we can convince other MPs, besides Mr Babic, that an amendment to Article 48 should be accepted in this case. It's a bill of insurance, but so are all our other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16546	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16547	The Honorable Chairman, Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I understand that the speaker has nothing to talk about, because the amendments themselves don't write him anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16548	Mr. Djukanovic, I'm asking you really as a second, however you like, but you have to be careful when I run... Mr. Djukanovic, please listen to me. Mr. Djukanovic, please listen to me. Please, really, really friendly, however you want, you have to follow me as I lead the Assembly. Did I intervene in the exposure? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Ali continued from the post. No, not after he's back. Therefore, I believe that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, because according to the Rules of Procedure – if the chairman warns the speaker and he returns to the topic, it is considered that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, I believe you're asking us to plead? (No) I say that more because of the other MPs, not just because of you. We have to look out for each other. On behalf of the members and members of the 49th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16549	Article 49 deals with registration in the register and says that - The founders and the insurance company are required to apply for the registration of a company in the register of competent authorities to bring within 30 days of the date of receipt of the NBS decision on the issue of a work permit. The application referred to in Article 1 shall also be accompanied by a solution to that position, as well as an NBS decision to give prior consent to perform the function of a member of the management of the insurance company. The insurance company shall acquire the legal person's property by enrolment in the register of the competent authority. The insurance action company is obliged to forward the decision to the National Bank register within seven days of the date of receipt of that decision. This member, like other members, will enter into force within seven months, or eight days of publication plus six months, thus showing once again that there is no need for urgent procedure and this approach to parliament. It is obvious and it is clear to all those who have little interest in this area that such a member existed in the existing law, practically in the same text. And that the urgent adoption of a new law with Article 49 will not change anything about legal certainty, in terms of security of investments, in terms of insurance, regarding any status that is related to the jurisdiction of this law. Therefore, and because it already existed in the previous law and because Article 281 of this Law tells us, it will apply after six months of its entry into force, except for some provisions in Article 233. These are all arguments that are the basis of what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16550	Thank you. On section 6, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 50th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16551	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the NBS, as is the order, we have submitted an amendment to a member of the bill we consider to be changing. Our amendment reads that a member of the 50th in respect of the authorities of the insurance company should be deleted. We have submitted an appropriate explanation, gentlemen, but we have also received an explanation from the NBS why it is not possible to accept this amendment to Article 50. Here, I now have to respond to this one interpretation, respected guests from the NBS, firstly, here it is said that this law should be passed in this way, including Article 50, in order to comply with the EU's legal fluid. Look, gentlemen, in the very text of the law and reason, we have use on some of the pages of the text, you can see that I really read it carefully, in the single legal course of the EU, and on some pages we have legal assets. As far as I know, it is right to say – legal fluids, but then it should stand in all the places where legal fluids are mentioned in the text on the 396 page that arrived. The second thing, he said, is the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the official opening of accession negotiations, at the first meeting of the Intergovernmental Conference. That's where I go back to our key argument. If the EU is the basis for such action, and this negotiating chapter is not yet opened, which our government says is the most ready, and this is negotiating chapter 32, it will only be opened in March, perhaps, why are we so chasing into this process, when there is no need for it, gentlemen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16552	On behalf of the members and members of the 51st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16553	Article 51, with the title "the Assembly", defines the Assembly of the Insurance Action Society and says the assembly is made up of shareholders of that society (hereinafter referred to as "the shareholders"). The right to vote is achieved directly by shareholders, or through their representatives. The statute of the insurance company (hereinafter referred to as the Statute), cannot prevent shareholders with one percent or more voting rights from exercising their right to vote directly. I think that once in a parallel analysis of this member and those regulations that 6 define the work of the Serbian Parliament, whether they are in the Constitution, or in the law, or in the Rules of Procedure, it can be beneficial to understand what parliament is for and what is the essence of parliament. No parliament in the world, nor in Serbian, is an expert body to deal with the expert assessment of legal acts coming to the plea. All parliaments in the world are lay bodies, regardless of the individual expertise of MPs, it is a layman's body whose job is to represent the interests of citizens in one society. In order to wave the layman's insurance issue, I mean, probably everyone in parliament, can get acquainted with this matter, which is and how important it is to live and work in one state in order. It is important that the proposal for the document, a proposal for the law, be given an insight into a sufficient period of time, large enough for them to be able to use deep analysis and comparative analyses to determine whether it is good for the citizens they represent. For this reason, we have submitted amendments to all members, including Article 51. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16554	On behalf of the members and members of the 52nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16555	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected colleagues, respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the NBS, have submitted as the president of the Assembly and said the amendment to Article 52 concerning the work of the Assembly. And this Article 52 defines what all the Assembly of the stock society decides about, and these things are defined here, finely written in 14 points. Here, first of all, I am now offering to Mrs Dragutinovic two additional arguments based on which I believe this amendment to Article 52 should be accepted. The first argument concerns inconsistencies in the NBS argument precisely as regards the interpretation of both this and all other members of this law. What is the view of this inconsistencies? It is in what is said here that an emergency procedure is necessary because it is necessary to coordinate and harmonize with EU legal fluids, and we have seen shortly before that nothing has been arranged since this intergovernmental conference from the beginning of 2014, to date, for example, for the opening of the first negotiating chapter. Now the National Bank instead of saying -- here, gentlemen of Parliament, let's sit here and discuss it in a regular procedure, the NBS runs far ahead for no reason or need at all. The other thing, it's really important to me right now. If the negotiating team is not defined to the end, so where can the National Bank of Serbia be so hasty that in a certain way it still violates the procedures and one good practice of the Assembly, a modern democratic state, which is not, if we are not now, and then at least we should become, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16556	Thank you. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 53rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16557	It is a member of 53 who defines the meetings of the Assembly, a very interesting text that could also serve to teach others. Sessions of the Assembly shall be held at least once a year. The National Bank of Serbia may require certain issues to be included in the session agenda. A representative of the National Bank of Serbia may attend the meeting of the Assembly, the meeting may be addressed to the shareholders, the Supervisory Board of the Insurance Action Society shall inform the National Bank of Serbia of the date of maintenance and the agenda of the Assembly's session within the deadline provided for informing the Assembly, and shall submit a copy of the minutes from that session after the session. So to ignore the spelling mistakes that are very, very present, it's rich in spelling errors. Imagine this congregation being held once a year. Imagine what it would be like to have the agenda points in the procedure for five, six days, two, three days before the sessions begin. No one could decide anything. There's a completely different difference here, obviously there's a great interest in MPs in working under this law. Forty-two MPs I counted next to the two of us, which, by the way, is almost one-fifth of the total number of MPs, so I see there's a lot of insurance. I hope that this speed in the adoption of this law has nothing to do with the evil languages or the notified languages that say that this speed is the result of desire, that the Danube Insurance is sold under the grains as soon as possible during the winter holidays. I wish that wasn't true.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16558	National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 54th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16559	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinović and respected guests from the NBS, I think that a member of this bill is ideal for a slightly different approach in an attempt to explain why we should accept our amendment to this article. Here are the citizens who listen and the MPs who have not been able to read, and above all, I am talking to you, Mrs Dragutinovic, member of 54 regarding the Supervisory Board, an excellent example. What is written here – The Supervisory Board of the Insurance Action Society shall consist of at least three members, including the President. In the second position, it says – at least one third of the members of the Supervisory Board make up persons independent of the insurance company, and the third position says – on an independent member of the Supervisory Board, provisions of the law governing companies are applied accordingly. Now we have a description of what the supervisory board looks like. If we remember article 95. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to remind you of Mrs Dragutinovic, reads in Section 1 what the National Bank is, that it is the central bank of the Republic of Serbia, independent and subject to the supervision of the National Assembly, to which it corresponds. The way I think about it now. You have tried here, Mrs Dragutinović, along with your colleagues, I think that you may excuse yourself a little bit of this approach from the proper supervision of the National Assembly, and then I come to article 54 in which you define certain things concerning the Supervisory Board in relation to this bill. Then here I find an absolute inconsistencies, as far as your activities are concerned here in the Assembly, and then as far as the operations are concerned, through the content of this bill. That is why I believe that this article is deleted, as are all the other members of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16560	On behalf of the members and members of the 55th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16561	Article 55 defines the part of the supervisory board and says that – the supervisory board of the insurance company, and in the follow-up – the Supervisory Board, has 23 powers. In particular - The establishment of business objectives, business strategies and the annual business plan of the company and oversees their implementation; it appoints and resolves members of the Executive Board of Society; it appoints and resolves the authorised actuaries; it oversees the work of the members of the Executive Board of Society; it establishes accounting policies of the company and declares the acts of the company's business policy; it gives an opinion on financial reports, the annual report on business and the report on the implementation of the co-insurance and reinsurance policy and submits them to the Assembly for adoption, gives and recalls the prosecution; it convenes meetings of the Assembly and establishes a draft agenda; it issues approved actions if it is authorised by the Statute or decision of the Assembly, etc. It informs the National Bank of Serbia and other competent authorities of identified irregularities. I asked in a previous address whether the press or the speed at which this law is passed, whether it has anything to do with stories that this is a legal prerequisite for an emergency under the grains to sell the state insurance company "Dunav", to unknown investors, from some of us far away, but some of you friendly countries. I'd like to get an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16562	Thank you. It's about the work of the Supervisory Board. We'll keep an eye on it. Members of the 55th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostresh...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16563	No answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16564	I don't really know the answer. Further, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapoo.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16565	I don't want to bother you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16566	I'll answer when I get the information. The word is for Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16567	Dear Mrs Dragutinović, thank you for accepting our amendment, the only of all amendments and I can say that LSV has really worked on these amendments, to make this good law, and such a good law with some of its copies, perhaps positive, to complete it. The only example of this insurance law is that you haven't paid any attention to the insurance of agriculture. We come from Vojvodina, so we have really one big remark, and farmers from Vojvodina have a lot of difficulties about how they don't know how to secure agriculture, and that gives them one big difficulty. No country in the world should subsidise uncertainty. Our patrons look to the sky for what years they will be and whether their crops will suffer or not, and with us, farmers are subsidized at the constant risk of being destroyed by complete production. Romania introduced mandatory agricultural insurance in 2011 at a time when it suffered far less damage than Serbia, from floods and various droughts, and we do not seem to have learned yet. Our state would have to introduce mandatory agricultural insurance by initially providing insurance premiums, while strengthening this segment does not create financial conditions, that farmers themselves pay the entire premium, so I think the next amendment to this insurance law will be precisely intended for agriculture. Please do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16568	On behalf of the members and members of the 56th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, respected Mrs. Dragutinović, respected guests from the NBS, I am now focusing first and foremost on Mrs. Dragutinovic, who showed one focus on dialogue in one part of our debate, and I see that she has become a little tired now and no longer participates in the debate. Our amendment to the 56th session of the Supervisory Board, I think, Mrs Dragutinovic, can be a cause for your debate, for new participation in the debate. So what it says here is, I'm just going to single out, for example, the position of the 3rd of this article in 56 to try to do one thesis. The Board of Supervisors shall inform the NBS of the date of maintenance and the agenda of its session within the time limit set for the notification of members of the Supervisory Board. I now conclude this way, that you want the Supervisory Board to stand in relation to the NBS as the NBS according to the Constitution, Article 95. The constitution of our country should stand in relation to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen. But then what do we have here as part of our practice? The NBS practice of discussing these five bill proposals is tearing down this formula and instead of having such symmetry as you have here, for example, in this law, we have the Supervisory Board to the National Bank standing as the National Assembly to the National Bank, and then we have equalization in the essence of the National Assembly with the Supervisory Board. People's MP, I don't think any of them here can accept that. We are going back to the procedure and to the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected Mrs Dragutinovic, I have already told the central political institutions. In our political system and the gentlemen of the sanctuary of our political life, we must not allow such asymmetry in the functioning of any institution, any minister, former minister, governor or vice governor of the NBS, respected Mrs Dragutinovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16570	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16571	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice Governor, fellow MPs, is obviously ignorant of things in the field of insurance. He has been trying hard to identify the work of the Assembly of Shareholders and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the past 10 amendments. First, the stock company is based on the principle of capital, meaning the ownership of the shares of each shareholder and for that are special legal persons. National MPs of the Republic of Serbia, this parliament are representatives of Serbian citizens, are not owners of any capital. Therefore, if the NBS has a supervisory role to do with insurance companies operating as stock companies, then it is quite logical that when the shareholders' assemblies are held, the NBS will also be invited, and this has nothing to do with the functioning of Serbia's parliament. It is clear that there is no knowledge of things at all, and it is clear that it is an attempt to declare somewhere with every NBS amendment as some political institution that constantly proposers of the amendment are trying to get through, however, it is the basic and only financial institution in the country that can control the work of all business entities involved, and especially in the area of insurance. We have so far not had the opportunity to hear, apparently, that representatives of the party that has received the least number of votes in this House are somewhere pushing to stop all processes relating to European integration. I did not get the impression that the simple, legal proposals that the NBS makes are heading towards European integration. Insurance companies have to function, especially when we're talking about a fiscal year ending at 31.12. 2014 means from 1.1.2015. we must start working on all insurance contracts, especially when we are talking about new investments, especially when we are talking about new loans, when we talk about building infrastructure projects, each of the contractors and the one whose investor is looking for insurance policies. So that insurance companies must be defined by law, there are obviously new moments in certain legal and application directives that have been defined by their work since 1.1.2015 and it is obvious that the NBS had to put these laws to the vote. I think it is totally unserious and irresponsible to define and identify the work of the shareholders' assembly in Serbia's insurance companies and parliaments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16572	The word is Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16573	Dear Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, given that certain MPs keep repeating the same arguments and expect me to answer in the same way all the time, I do not find it difficult. Does the NBS have the right to be a bill promoter? Yeah. If these are laws for which the NBS is responsible in terms of control and supervision of certain activities, i.e. industry, including insurance, inter alia, payment institutions, etc.? Did the NBS respect the procedure? Absolutely is. Does the Rules of Procedure allow the law to be passed in an emergency procedure? Yeah. Are there emergency procedures? Yeah. Is it written here that the conditions of compliance with EU rules without being said, I write what is written, that these laws must be applied simultaneously, or spotlessly? The law is a serious matter and does not mean that we are not prepared as NBS for application. So something depends on industry, and this is the best way to prepare the industry for law enforcement, and I don't know why it bothers you to bring something before time, why do we have to wait for the last moment and we're talking here today about the difference between 10 and 15 days? I think 10 days is enough for the law of this species.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16574	Thank you. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted to the 56th amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted a name above the members and members of the 57th amendment. The word is Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16575	We heard just before a wise explanation from the former minister about what is good to do before the deadline, and it is not good to wait for the last moment, so I could ask you in the manner of some other MPs – and what did you not do when the time was right? There's no reason for an emergency procedure. There's no reason for an emergency procedure to pass a law that takes effect after six months and you can try to explain it in 100 ways, but it's inexplicable. An emergency procedure for something to cook in July next year, that's really pointless. Secondly, of course you have to keep repeating the answers to our questions because otherwise this transmission exists not because of us, but because of the citizens, and of course they don't sit around watching this as a Spanish series, but people burn it down for five minutes, they're always some other people, so it would be good if the most citizens found out. And finally, if you are already giving such bold, determined and wise answers, give me an answer to the question whether the urgent adoption of this law is not preparing for sale under the grain of the state insurance company "Dunav Insurance", because this is the story the whole Belgrade charter tells about, well informed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16576	The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16577	The Serbian Progressive Party is against the adoption of such an amendment, but I will continue with the evidence, not to tell the Charshish and not the insinuations, but to those things that are accurate and accurate, the Insurance Act, still valid, so much praise, has adopted another assembly majority in May 2004 by an urgent procedure, but not all. That law had about eight changes to the day of today. We have the first change in 2005, an emergency procedure, another change in 2005, an emergency procedure, so in 2007, an emergency procedure, so in 2009, the Constitutional Court decision, meaning something was wrong and was not in accordance with the Constitution, so many times waved today in this room, so in 2009, an emergency procedure, so in 2011, an emergency procedure. What about all these emergency procedures that have been implemented and at a time when the amendment promoter will say – what do I have to do with it? You don't have any, but they have those with whom you were on the list, which you helped cross the census, those to you or you to them, unsettled. Seems to me there's a ticket. As for the sale of the state share of capital in the Danube, in two years, here is almost three years of government participation in which nothing has been alienated, donated, given. If there is a sale of anything state-owned, it will be much more transparent, it will be legal, it will be familiar to the public, it will be more favourable and transparent to the state than it was to sell Beopetrol, for example 10, 12 years ago. Therefore, do not propose an amendment to take care of such a thing, it will be much better and better if it happens, much better for the state and all of our citizens than it was with Beopetrol.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16578	On behalf of the members and members of the 58th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16579	Article 58 defines the responsibility of the Executive Board and says that it manages the activities of the Insurance Action Society and conducts day-to-day supervision of the activities of employees in that company, etc., ensures the legality of the work of the company, is responsible for the accuracy of the business books and financial reports, adopts acts of business policy, etc. It's a copy of the previous law from word to word. I didn't see if there were any spelling mistakes, but let's just say it wasn't the most important thing in one law. They will go to the lecture before the publication in the Official Messenger, so it will be fixed, but I expected from an institution like the National Bank, which has all the conditions for one good work, that such small things do not happen. I still didn't get an answer from the Vice Governor for "Dunav Insurance", but I got an indication from an unauthorized person what it might be, and it's my confirmation that I'm right, that these changes are part of the preparation for one secret sale "Dunav Insurance" in a "transparent" way, like that was, with JAT, so we'll soon have on the agenda a law called 235 million reasons why it was a bad job. Of course, the Danube Insurance will not be sold in such a way as Beopetrol was sold, as Beopetrol was sold in an international tender, which is an unfulfilled ideal in the privatisation process. That didn't happen, if I remember correctly, from the Mobtel sale over here. Everything else was hanging out on the magic carpet... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16580	Time. The word is from Vice Governor Diana Dragutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16581	Dear Members of Parliament, the President-in-Office, I would like an MP who has been asking the same question for the third or fourth time, to look at Article 280 of this bill. In Article 280 of this proposal, the law states that the privatisation regime is unchanged. This means that absolutely the same principles provided for in the current version of the law will apply until the privatisation of insurance companies is completed. So the privatisation regime is unchanged. So, this law doesn't change, it doesn't affect the privatisation of the Danube or, as you say, under the grain, which may not be how privatisation is talked about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16582	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. She just explained it to you and said it wouldn't be sold. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: You do not understand. I got it. I've been listening since 10:00 this morning. I'd like to give you my word that the Vice Governor has overstepped something. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16583	I thank Mrs Dragutinovic because she has now shown that the amendments have been proposed by the amendments, but that they have not read the law, because if they had read the law, they would have had an answer, and even those charming stories wouldn't have had to put it in this high house. When someone doesn't read the law and submit amendments, what else to expect than the words I just said to be reversed in a way that I don't know who they might answer to, but they're not spoken. I continue to argue that if anything is done in Serbia and everything that has been done in the past three years, since 2012, then here, two and a half, is much more transparent, more quality and in the greater interest of Serbian citizens than with privatisation, with a gift of Beopetrol, against the state's interest, against the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16584	The word is Dr. Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16585	Unlike the amendment promoter, I will really talk about the amendment. Definitely this amendment cannot be accepted. The promoter himself did not say a single word that he would try to convince both the assembly and the citizens that this amendment relating to Article 58 has the basis and foothold in eradicating a member who is extremely important and defines the work of the executive board that manages the activities of the insurance company and conducts day-to-day supervision of the activities of employees in that society. The competence of the Executive Board is extremely important for the business of the company and that supervision and control are precisely the most important in the business of each company. If we had better surveillance and better control, probably some bank loans and insurance wouldn't have come. What is important, this is not the reason that the promoters have stated to delete this member. By deleting this member, they would not have defined what the competent executive board is doing in the company itself, i.e. in the insurance company. An emergency procedure certainly isn't an explanation for eradicating members of the law. What's even more important is that selling under the grain isn't something this government does. It's about governments that have worked before. That who sold and how he sold under the grains was understood by the citizens and they voted accordingly, and accordingly the number of MPs in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16586	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 59th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16587	The management of the insurance company. Article 59. ‘The management of the insurance company (hereinafter referred to as ‘Government’) within the meaning of this Act shall consist of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board. The members of the administration are obliged to take measures to prevent illegal or inappropriate actions and influences which are harmful or not in the best interests of the insurance company and its shareholders, again without a score, "which are carried out by persons closely related to the company – to protect the users of the insurance service". 43/1BD/CG17,05-17,15 And this is a copy of the previous law, another proof that there is no reason to interrupt the procedure. It's not even fast anymore, it's a procedure that's interrupted. The answer of the Vice-Governmentary who is contained in Article 280, where it is said that the way and conditions for privatisation will not change, would be a good answer that I got from someone who convinces themselves that it has something to do with the economy, but from the minister who worked on that portfolio, so of course it's not just the process, how something is privatized, but the conditions under which this society will be privatised. If this law doesn't change the terms, then what do you bring? Then what are you bringing? So, conditions change and these conditions change in one part, apparently at the request of the one behind the curve to wait for the Danube Insurance, which is likely to be brought to the loss-level by then. The privatisation of Beopetrola, proud of it, prepared, although informally, I am not responsible, ready for anything, any question on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16588	Time. On behalf of the members and members of the 60th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16589	Article 60 concerns the obligation to inform the Assembly of the incomes of the members of the administration. The Assembly shall, at least once a year, consider written information with detailed data on all earnings, fees and other receipts of members of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board and on all contracts between the insurance company and those persons, and other persons associated with them, the resulting asset benefit of those persons, as well as the proposal of the Supervisory Board on Profits, Refunds and other property benefits of those persons for the following year. And this is prescribed by the existing law, again to commend, without even a visible spelling error, but it's not enough to justify terminating the process of passing this law. In fact, by applying a segment of business, not industry, but industry, which is the insurance sector, there is no need for any change too quickly and this is clearly under Article 281, where it is said that this law will apply only after six months of its entry into force, which is, once again, sufficient reason for me to reason again to break the procedure for enforcing this law into the agenda of the National Assembly. Once again, for those who have not heard of the first part, the gift and the sale below each level refers to the NIS, voted by all SRS MPs, and Beopetrol was sold without any question from parliament. It was a question for the Privatisation Agency, the tendering sector, which was then led by Belgrade Mayor Sinish Mali, so ask him for everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16590	Thank you. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Baure, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to the 60th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 61st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16591	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Dragutinovic and the Honored Guests of the NBS, have also submitted an amendment to Article 61, which concerns the previous consent to perform the functions of a member of the administration. If the Honorable President of the National Assembly allows me in one sentence only to tell Mrs Dragutinovic that we have decided, for example. Mrs Dragutinovic, let's vote in favour of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, but why, since we've discussed it a little bit? Because we have four members that are changing and that, of course, could be read to analyze it nicely. But here where we have 281, Mrs Dragutinovic, I think you were wrong when you told us here several times that there are conditions for this kind of procedure. They don't exist. I have tried to explain this to you, calling for exactly this alignment with the EU's legal assets. Be careful, Mrs Dragutinović, about article 61, you would be right if we could imagine the situation, for example. that there is a precise date by which this area should be in line with EU legal assets, but we do not have such a date. For this reason, the invitation to Article 167 is an invitation. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly unfounded. That means there are no conditions for such a procedure, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and the other gentlemen here. Also, I think the law is a serious matter and I'm here to agree with you when you say it here, too, but if the law is a serious thing, then it deserves the proper procedure for his consideration and adoption, and that's not the procedure that you've now applied here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16592	The word is Mrs. Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16593	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I understand you perfectly. You said that ten days was enough for you to read only one law, and in doing so, the law and amendments to that law were only a compliance with the other two laws, with the Insurance Act and the Payment Services Act, which you did not accept. So I don't understand at all how you could accept this law that only adds those provisions regarding payment services. It's completely illogical to me, but I'm glad that you've been able to read this law in ten days.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16594	On behalf of the members and members of the 62nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16595	Here, now the Serbian public has penetrated this magical secret why Mrs Dragutinovic has won the position of vice governor of the NBS, and that is a joke. She's a little sordid, the way she talks. She argues with the messengers and throws away and resents them to read slowly or not to understand what they read. It was probably a basic qualification for you to become a vice governor of the NBS, which is a world record by loss, by derailment of course, by the privileges of employees and officials in that bank. But that's not the point. There are times and there are some courts of the public, moral courts, looking in the mirror. There's a lot of ways to get that in order. There are interesting conditions to perform the functions of a member of the administration, which are quite well defined, but are also prescribed from the previous law, and on this side it is once again proven that there was no need for such a speedy and with such a law under the procedure. I don't want to read them. I respect all restrictions given under conditions for the performance of the member of the administration. It would be very good if at least one part of these restrictions were introduced for the election of MPs in the Serbian Parliament, because it would certainly lead...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16596	Your Honor, we will not insult our colleagues. We're all equal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16597	Where did you guys recognize each other?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16598	I didn't recognize myself at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16599	Then don't interrupt me. Let go of my two minutes. Here, give you 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16600	Thank you very much. Then take 15 seconds away from the time the MP has. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16601	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I am advocating Article 106(1). – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. You too, Art. In 108 and 109, they make it clear that it's illegal tossing. The previous speaker did both, injured two members of the Rules of Procedure. I have the understanding that the chairman tolerates the opposition and I support it, and I support them when they step away from the agenda and when they talk about something that is not on the agenda, because I was an opposition myself, but please, Madam Chairman, that it still has a small measure. I understand my colleague, and I understand that his unbearable authority is over him, and it's usually with a man who exercised power. I understand everything, I was an opposition, I fully advocate their rights, even when they speak foolishly, and no one repented when he spoke little and when he ate little. I fully support your attitude to tolerate them, but still, given that there are 500 and some amendments, to take a little account, and I totally understand my fellow farmer, because once upon a time when I was young, I knew what it was like when the wine hit my face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16602	Ambassador, I should be the one to react now, and I won't. I think every MP in his own way addresses voters, and MPs have to be the same as the president, all 250. You don't want to vote? No, I don't. So we won't vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 62nd amendment. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16603	Thank you, Madam President. Article 62 sets out the conditions for the exercise of the functions of a member of the administration. I'll read point one. The bill, which reads that "a member of the administration must have a good business reputation and appropriate professional qualifications, knowledge and experience necessary to perform the functions of a member of the administration. “ During the day, we insist that the conditions of the bill should be precise, and therefore we have suggested that the attitude of the first member be changed and that – a member of the administration must have completed a college, experience in management and management, as well as experience of at least nine years in insurance business. We intervened in attitude 7 where the words "closer conditions for performing the functions of a member of the administration, as well" are deleted, and then, just a little while, again, makes an observation that the National Bank should not determine closer conditions. We think it should be determined by law. We believe that attitude one is so defined as inaccuracy, that it gives the possibility of broad interpretation and thus opens up the possibility of abuse, so we suggest that it be precise in the way that we suggest. The change in attitude 7 deletes the part relating to the authority of the National Bank of Serbia to prescribe closer conditions for the exercise of the office of a member of the administration. As stated in the amendment to Article 32, additional obligations and restrictions cannot be imposed under the sublaws, but lower acts can only be closer to regulating the way and procedure of law enforcement, i.e. in a specific case, the process of proving compliance with the conditions laid down in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16604	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16605	Thank you, President of the Assembly. I just wanted to add a few things that made me sign this amendment. In fact, colleague Karavidić made it very clear that the current member is inaccurate because a good business reputation in our terms... The People's MPs of the SNS are getting it. ) Would you please remind a colleague of the second row and give me my time back?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16606	I ask the MPs of the second order to... I don't know exactly, because I wasn't looking that way. I can't give you back time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16607	You heard the scream. You heard him yell.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16608	I can't pay you back, because he didn't take your time by throwing you away. Here you go. (Zoran Babic, from the place: His time has passed.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16609	Have you heard of Mr. Babic – whose time has passed? I would say to Mr. Babic very clearly and loudly...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16610	Ambassador, we're going to talk about the amendment now, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16611	I can't talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16612	How can you not? You're talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16613	I can't talk because the MPs are shouting.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16614	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16615	You're very kind, with a smile.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16616	Yeah, laughing's allowed. Let my colleague Veselinović speak, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16617	You're the chairman here, and that smile you're sending to your party colleagues approves of this way...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16618	I don't know how to be in the mood. And when they talk here about me being a criminal, I have a smile. Therefore, speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16619	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16620	It's not you. Some are, but I like it all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16621	You're very rarely smiled.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16622	You'll spend all your time with your group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16623	Do you think this is the National Assembly? So, this amendment to a member, in light of this event, may mean more clearly what our MP group wanted. She wanted to further explain what a good business reputation means, because we know what a good business reputation means to you and who you put in charge of everything. This is not about institutions that are of public importance, but it is about institutions that have the resources of citizens. It doesn't matter if someone doesn't graduate college, we don't even ask it to be a state college. We allow it to be a private college. We're not asking him to be a master at the state college. These can also be masters from private schools, acquired on Sundays and national holidays. It may also be PhDs acquired in these same colleges, but we ask that it be clearly specified that for a place in the administration of insurance organisations people who have completed college and who have a certain experience in this profession are found.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16624	Members of the 62nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimira Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 63rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16625	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the National Bank of Serbia, I am very pleased that there is still one dialogue there. I would now, in relation to our amendment to Article 63, call on a part of the debate that this Article 63 holds regarding our debate on the amendment to Article 56 and a proportion that arises, because I think it is important for an explanation. I have, in the end, one proposal for the president of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic. Namely, Mr Babic, Tomic, etc., said here that the relationship between the Supervisory Board and the National Bank is in proportion to the relationship between the National Bank of Serbia and the National Assembly. I have argued that this proportion has been disrupted by this approach of our guests from the National Bank of Serbia, and then it is said here – one MP cannot say here that the National Assembly should be humiliated in this way. On the contrary. I claimed that the proportion should be as it is, according to our Constitution, the Supervisory Board towards the National Bank, as the National Bank towards the National Assembly, not the Supervisory Board to the National Bank, as the National Assembly to the National Bank. I just wanted this to be clarified, so that it would be a clear argument to all MPs when they decide whether to accept our amendment to Article 63, which defines the refusal to obtain prior consent to perform the functions of a member of the administration. My proposal to Mrs. Gojkovic, as well as the esteemed president of the National Assembly, that we have been discussing here for seven and a half hours mainly on the amendments of Zoran Zivkovic and myself, we have become a little tired, then some mistake is being stolen, if it is possible to give a break, respected president, so that we can seriously continue our debate on the amendments to these drafts of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16626	Here, we'll do a little more work and we'll consider that request, but you have to be aware, look at some other members, Article 158, talking about the total time of the debate, no matter how many amendments you've submitted, it won't last much longer, just a few more hours. On behalf of the members and members of the 64th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16627	Distracting consent to perform the functions of a member of the administration, Article 164, NBS will take away the given consent to perform the functions of a member of the administration under 1. – if the person has received consent by giving false and incorrect information, under 2. — where a member of the administration no longer fulfils at least one of the conditions laid down in Article 62 of this Act, under 3. - if a member of the administration does not comply with the obligations of a member of the administration prescribed by this law, under 4. — where it has assessed that the conditions for the introduction of an emergency administration in accordance with Article 206 of this Act have been met, the person who is withdrawn from the position of the first member shall cease to be a member of the administration on the day of the adoption of the decision. The insurance company shall ensure the full application of the regulation referred to in Article 2, for the person referred to in Article 1, who has been deprived of the consent of that position, shall not be able to submit a new application for such consent within three years of the date of adoption of the decision on the withdrawal of the agreed text which existed in the current law and another proof that there is no need for this law to be adopted by means of an infringement procedure. I would like to support my colleague Pavicevic's initiative, not because of our fatigue, although I am rested, I must admit, because later I started defending our amendments, but because of the Serbian public who should rest and with new enthusiasm continue to monitor this very important session, which I remind the Serbian public, is aimed at preserving the dignity and cheeks of the Serbian parliament. That you will wait for us behind some defense of the Rules of Procedure, which you did not bring, but some evil of your previous congregation majority, with that definition I fully agree with.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16628	On behalf of the members and members of the 65th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicev together submitted. When we finish at least the first item of the agenda, we'll have a little break. We have to finish something today. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Dragutinovic, and the esteemed guests of the NBS, so we now have our amendment to the 65th section concerning the duties and responsibilities of the member of the administration. This member, for all those who have read, is divided into two parts. The first part is about when the Executive Board is obliged to notify the Supervisory Board in writing and on what, and in the second part, it is about when a member of the Board is obliged to immediately inform about certain matters of the NBS: Here, honourable gentlemen, we return to that assigned proportion based on the Constitution of our country. This proportion says the following, and there's a member in 56, for example. this bill complies with what the Constitution is. Members of 56th and the Constitution say -- the NBS Supervisory Board equals NBS towards the National Assembly of Serbia. But what's going on? Practices, making our guests from the NBS is such that they bring down that proportion and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as noted here, and from the MPs of the Progressive Party, puts it in such a relationship with the People's Bank as the Supervisory Board has with the National Bank. We don't think it can be tolerated here. I just have to say once again, that I am here in agreement with Mr. Zivkovic, who agreed with me, and the proposal is directed towards the president of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic. Because, look, let me just say, gentlemen, Article 158 of Section 4 still stands for 300 amendments as a minimum for discussion. For 300 amendments we have now reached 65, that is indeed a lot, we are a little tired, purely for the quality of the debate, Mrs. Gojkovic, if you can pause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16630	MP, it's not 300, but how many of you can defend your amendments at ten o'clock. So, when it's ten o'clock, it's over. On section 7, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 66th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16631	Article 66 of Section 7 which states – other provisions relating to the insurance company, non-security, prior consent to change the business name and seat, so this may have to do with this under-grassing with the Danube, says – the insurance companies are obliged to request prior consent from the NBS for a proposal for a decision to change their business name, seat, or address of the seat. In addition to the request for obtaining the consent of the NBS for a change of seat or seat address, the proposal for a decision to amend the seat and proof of the necessary technical competence referred to in Article 42(3) of point 11 of this Act on the request provided for in Article 2 of this Act shall be decided by the NBS within 30 of the day of receipt of the regulatory request. The acts referred to in Article 1(1) without the consent of the NBS shall be void. It is the same rain you, that was all already in the previous law, that is, in the law in force and which will be valid until half next year, and thus will outlive many decision-making entities in this country in their political functioning. It is obvious that the assembly majority's intention and proposings and Madam President's to go to the exorcising of the two of us as a proposing and you just said that, how capable we are and that is not a question that is worthy of this Parliament again. We're not gonna get in who's more persistent in one pointless way to compete with anyone. The New Party MPs will be working until six today, as is their previous working hours, and you will see as much as you will, about what you will. There's no reason to work through the procedure, so we're two to 1800 hours until it's regular and it's without a break all day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16632	We'll work if you change your mind. It's your right because they're your amendments. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16633	This amendment, of course, is not acceptable to the SNS, because I think that these previous consents to change the business name and seat need to be defined in this Article 66, because if there were more in the past, it would have been far better to pass some truly below the crop privatisation. Someone said he was proud of some of the things that happened in the past. Worried, the responsible people in this country sent me an e-mail after that, and I really appreciate it. I'm not an economist's profession, I don't even represent myself as a professor because I didn't, but I am a graduate engineering engineer at the University of Belgrade, but I will refer to a report by the Anti-Corruption Council that suggested that the state was damaged by 100-180m euros in privatisation. Beopetrol was privatized in 2003 when it was purchased by a Russian company. The buyer has pledged to provide 85m euros and eightm euros for the social programme within three years. However, the company delivered a guarantee of 41m euros compared to these 85m euros, half the total, with a loan of 115.2m euros from Beopetrola and 10.2m euros from the privatisation entity on August 25th 2004, as well as 10.2m euros on June 10th 2005. According to the Council, several loans and contracts were disputed, so it said that an employment contract of 31.2m euros was concluded with Inconeksk company on 14 October 2004. That money was paid to the company, but there's no evidence that the works were done, ate the cat. The same way was done with the company Djovelo Trading. This company was paid 17m euros, and if some calculations showed that works that cost only 6.5m euros were done. Well, that's how you do those underprivileged grains. Is anyone responsible for that? Does he have a membership card, friendship, whatever he has, absolutely for the judicial authorities, doesn't matter to me personally. Whoever wronged the law has to answer, but these are privatisations that the former regime is proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16634	On behalf of the members and members of the 67th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. He won't talk. On behalf of members and members of the 68th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16635	Article 68 deals with previous consent to investments in other legal entities and defines, as well as in the previous law, in the same text as not established, here it is still better since it is in front of the "a" point, in point 6, but of course I will use this fruitful debate on the Insurance Act for the work of an important insurance company like my predecessor, which is "Beopetrol" or you "Lukoil". It is true that you received as an e-mail about what the Anti-Corruption Council said about Beopetroll, absolutely correct every quote, only what the predecessor said was happening in the second half of 2004 when it was far even for Mr. Sinisha Malloy, who was the head of the tender procedure, and since my time for sure. I'm proud of the way it was sold. The contract he made was signed at a time when I had the honour of being president of the Serbian government, and some doctor from Leskovec could really be more polite. But it means everything that's happened... The People's MPs of the SNS are getting it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16636	I can't stop him. I didn't break even the previous MP who gave examples, the possibility of privatizing Dunav's insurance, so I won't interrupt you either.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16637	But you interrupted me after all. I repeat, I am absolutely proud of everything that was done at the time inclusive and the contract that he prepared and controlled at the time the current mayor of Belgrade, Sinish Mali. It's true that these are not suspicious, but the criminal things you're talking about happened...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16638	Thank you. I have to stop you in time. On behalf of the members and members of the 69th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the Progressive Party, I see the smiles, the satisfaction that we are today discussing amendments, mostly new parties to the Insurance Act. I can say that it has indeed been an effort that seven and a half hours here, almost without leaving this great hall, we are trying to convince all MPs from all MPs, as well as the MPs from the SNS to accept all 281st of our amendment, including the amendment to Article 69. A proposal for a law on insurance, in which we propose that Article 69, as well as other members of this bill, which, gentlemen, is deleted. We have offered a certain explanation, respected gentlemen, why we believe that this member should be deleted, and since citizens continue to report, monitor, be interested, on matters of procedure, on issues of the Constitution, etc. I'm just going to read what kind of content it is that needs to be deleted and that once again if time lets me try to explain why. The provisions of this law, relating to the insurance company, shall apply accordingly to the resecuritisation company, unless certain issues are otherwise regulated by this law. My key regret here, gentlemen, was directed primarily to the MPs, and above all by the SNS. For what? Because they did not recognize the errors in the argument of our guests from the NBS for reasons both for Article 69 of this Bill proposal and for all the other members of this Security Act and because they did not respond to how it would be appropriate for MPs to respond to the principle that is most important to us, and that is respected gentlemen, once again to say, the principle of rule of law with, of course, the principle of academic integrity in the system of higher education, and often...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16640	Time. On Section 8, the name section, the name of the member and member of the 70th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16641	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the NBS, seems to have really affected the mood of a number of MPs. I, the right to tell you, can understand, but it is very important for us to perhaps listen carefully, as Mr Babic recommended to all the MPs of the SNS, so they did not listen to him about erasing Article 70. It's a proposal for a law on insurance. This 70th Honorable gentlemen, it contains four positions and I believe that since I notice the text of the bill on benches that it is likely to be read. Why do we propose to delete Article 70? An insurance bill? For the same reason we propose to delete all previous and all the next members of this bill, and what is the basic argument, gentlemen? This is the argument that should most concern all of us, first of all, who are the MPs of the National Assembly of the RS, who during each debate we should constantly take care of the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly, and this thing, the respected presidents of the National Assembly, concerns the procedure. There is no modern democracy without respect for the procedure, and the legislative body, especially as defined by our Constitution, is the Constitution of the RS, especially should take care of the meaning and importance of the procedure, gentlemen. Article 70 to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16642	The names of members and members of the 71st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic. [[National Members of the SNS applaud.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16643	And I have welcomed and not once, just to say, here, honourable gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored presidents of the National Assembly and respected Mrs Dragutinovic and honored guests from the NBS, to get a round of applause. It's not just Mr. Wolfie who gets a round of applause when he comes into this room. Now one more round of applause, probably to mention the name of the Prime Minister. It can't miss. Here, on one occasion here to show why I believe that a member of 71 concerning founders, respected gentlemen, and here I am first of all focusing on Mr. Arsic, because I know that he has been following this debate closely since the morning, taking part in it, arguing, etc. Article 71 makes up two attitudes. It states in the right attitude – that mutual insurance can be established by legal and natural persons and by position 2 - a mutual insurance company can establish at least 250 natural persons if the company is established to carry out life insurance activities, i.e. at least 300 natural or legal persons, if it is established to carry out non-life insurance activities. Dear gentlemen, once again I shall call here on one very important argument of ours in this debate. It is possible that we would not have this number of objections as to the amendments, as regards the content of this number of members of this bill, respected Mrs Dragutinovic, and respected Mr Arsic to hear it, including Babic, only that the procedure corresponded to what are the real circumstances. Since she was not responding, we were forced, as MPs who respected the dignity of this house, to act like this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16644	On behalf of the members and members of the 72nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16645	Article 72 speaks of species. It reads – The mutual insurance company is established as a company with unlimited contribution or as a limited contribution company. A mutual insurance company with an unlimited contribution may require any member of the insurance undertaking to pay the additional contribution necessary to settle the unsecured damages and other expenditure, without restrictions. A mutual insurance company with a limited contribution may require each member of the insurance company to pay an additional contribution which is not but also from its previously paid contribution to the whole of the same business year – if subsequent damages and other expenditures are greater than previously paid contributions and other company revenues. If a mutual insurance company performs several types of insurance operations, it may provide for the payment of an additional contribution separately for each type of insurance. Of course, here we have, except for these questions, or comments concerning spelling, and a few essential questions, but since we ask that this member be deleted in full, we would not now Mr. Pavicevic and I enter a full analysis of this member as well as of the species. But I will mention something else about the procedure and the Rules of Procedure, which is that it is limited time, that the Serbian public knows, about the discussion on amendments. So, on this law, on the next law and on this whole so-called set of laws, it's 10 hours. This means that it is commercially limited, or obstructed, the right of MPs to speak about the amendments they have submitted, which is unremembered in Europe's parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16646	The word has been given by the MP Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16647	By following these statements, I would like to express one satisfaction, the Honorable Chairman, because the applicant of the amendment all the time wants to get to know the public how good and good this law is, and by reading to the members of this law, the public now finds out how good and quality the law is. I also express satisfaction because finally the applicants of the amendment will read the law, since they did not read it before they submitted the amendments. It's actually the quality of this debate itself, because citizens can see who's serious and who's unserious in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16648	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16649	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a new law, but to be honest, the new law rests well on the old, or at this point in time, the applicable law. So, I can't understand the specific essence of these amendments that are being submitted here. I've only heard complaints, and when it comes to this member, we have to work on the Rules of Procedure, so even a colleague said that this Rules of Procedure brought in some evil people. I never call my fellow MPs that, but I ask a question – if someone thinks someone is evil, I don't understand what they're doing on his list? This Rules of Procedure is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the then President of the Assembly, Oliver Duluc...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16650	Please, Ambassador Arsic, nothing about the Rules of Procedure, only amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16651	I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16652	I was very patient with MP Zivkovic because he packed up a sort of amendment. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16653	So much for the Rules of Procedure, procedures and amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16654	I'll explain everything. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 73rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16655	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and honored guests from the National Bank of Serbia, brought by this round of applause and support, we decided to remain here for all ten hours of debate, as scheduled, and that means, I think, up to 20.00 hours. Thank you, of course, and the president of the National Assembly for the clarification of Article 158(4). We will continue to explain our amendments to the members' proposals, as we have done all day long this morning since 10 o'clock and despite the respected President Gojkovic, the fatigue and a kind of exhaustion that really exists after so many speeches. So we propose to delete the 73rd basic capital member. Article 73, gentlemen, here are the citizens to hear, show today a great deal of interest in the debate on the content of the dots, or members of this bill, to be referred to what it might be that stands in one draft of the law, only that it is sent by regular procedure. Article 1 — The monetary part of the underlying capital in the establishment of a mutual insurance company may be less than the amount of the underlying capital prescribed by Article 27. This law. Now would be convenient, of course, for a good analysis, to get back to Article 27. That's what we can do if one of the SNS MPs, for example. Call it in, and let's open up a dialogue on a relationship between these two members, but since I have a little time, I'm going to move on to another position. Article 2 – The mutual insurance company is obliged to maintain the underlying capital in its business at the level prescribed in paragraph 1 of this Article. Position One is right here, we've heard what it says. We believe that due to the procedure, this article 73 should be deleted as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16656	The names above the members and members of the 74th amendment include MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16657	Application for authorisation for work, Article 74. Application for authorisation for work shall be submitted by the founders of the mutual insurance company. The founders of a mutual insurance company in the process of obtaining a work permit may represent those who authorise it. In addition to the requirement laid down in Article 1(1) of this Article, the founders of a mutual insurance company shall submit: (1) a contract for the establishment of a company; (2) a proposal for the statute of a company; (3) proof that they have the amount of the share of the underlying capital prescribed by Article 73(1) of this Act; (4) evidence of the payment of the contribution (premium) of the members (guarantee), with the list of those members; (5) the company’s business plan; (6) evidence that the founders who acquire qualified participation in that company meet the conditions laid down in Article 32 of this Act;7) evidence that the proposed members of the management in that company fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 62 of this Act, 8) the business policy acts referred to in Article 67(2). from 2) to (10) of this law, with the opinion of an authorised actuary on the proposals of these acts referred to in points (a) and (b). of 2) di 5) that position and the conditions of compulsory insurance in traffic with the opinion of the authorised actuary, if the company will carry out such insurance. It is true that it is good to read another text of the bill. Of course, it is good because of citizens of Serbia who hardly had the motive and the ability to do so, but it is good to do so also because of colleagues who wanted to read this text, but for justifiable reasons they couldn't, because of lack of reading skills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16658	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 75th Amendment, together are MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16659	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable National Assembly President, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected dear guests from the National Bank of Serbia, we also suggest that Article 75 be deleted. Proposal for a law on insurance, as regards a contract on establishment. In this article, it is defined next. It says – the contract for the establishment of a mutual insurance company contains particularly provisions, and then we have eight points that the provisions contain. Look, gentlemen, in our explanation, we have announced one thing to this member that makes a key argument for today's debate. I personally think, gentlemen, the honourable fellow MPs, that this course of debate has shown how convincing our argument was. Here, for example, Mrs Gojkovic, I think very precisely stated that we have a total of 10 hours to discuss all amendments to the joint investigation of five draft laws. Look, we've now reached a member of 75 who is otherwise an important member, a member of the founding contract. That means that, for as long as it's left, we won't be able to read it here and in a proper way discuss not a third of the members of a single bill of five draft laws that were on the agenda. So where is the greater evidence, gentlemen, that the National Bank of Serbia, the Governor, and the Vice-Governor, I say, did not follow a good approach when they treated the MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this way, and our mistake was, above all, the MPs of the ruling majority, which did not react more sharply through one resistance to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16660	Thank you. It's just, the truth is, I've turned my attention to article 158. I didn't say anything else. I'm not warning anyone. On behalf of the members and members of the 76th Amendment, I apologize to Marijana Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16661	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, purely for the sake of the citizens, bearer of sovereignty, to know what kind of MPs they have and so on, this is a contract to set up a proposal for my distinguished colleagues. If we adopt that amendment, it's a contract to set up a society. In the founding contract, there's a cash share. Based on that piece of money, insurance needs to be paid off. And now imagine when, for us, the taxpayers who finance my university, when we get up to the table at one respected university, one professor, so today our colleague, when he gets up to a very high table and don't give God if he crashes on the FPN. If the academically honest glides and falls down and gets hurt. Imagine that tragedy and comedy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16662	Ambassador, can we talk about the amendment to the founding contract?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16663	So I'm talking about the amendment. So if we adopt their proposal, the founding contract and the money part will be this. In that case, who's going to pay for the damage to a professor who at the FPN lecture has academically behaved, jumping to a table, crossed legs in yoga style, on a very high table, if he falls and gets hurt, which insurance will pay for the damage? So if we adopt the amendment in question, then the damage won't be paid for by anyone. I don't know what else I have left here, only to advocate legalizing marijuana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16664	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 76th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does he want a word from you two? Zoran Zivkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16665	This is one of the most important and dearest members, and the amendment by itself, and that is the statute. The statute is something that regulates some relations, and it does not act as a bunker and waits for political opponents, but defines relations in one serious body, body, institution, with the desire to increase the efficiency of work in the institution, all with the desire for the work results of the institution to be such that Serbian citizens benefit from it. Unfortunately, despite the fact that the company's statutes should contain provisions on a business name, on business insurance, on the amount of cash, on the number of founders, on the right of a member to a limited and unlimited contribution, on the start and termination of membership in a company of funds and reserves, it is difficult to regulate even in an insurance company. And then it happens that, let's say, in some congregation of some insurance society, and perhaps even in parliament, you have members, or MPs, who have been steeped several times apparently. And charged good damages for it, but that steeping left lasting consequences on their ability to monitor the discussion. Of course, this article was already contained in the previous law that still applies today. Maybe with some small changes, but we haven't been able to determine them because we didn't get the text of the previous law, or the current law, which would be good for comparison, which this new law brings more quality, more modern than before. What it says in the explanation, we can believe it or not believe it, but if we had an old law, then a parallel analysis, then that would be clear. This is the only way to make sure that Duvan fell under the grain into some drug deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16666	On behalf of the members and members of the 77th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does he want a word from you two? The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the NBS, here are the citizens' messages that it is good to continue this debate. Some citizens say that this photograph that has been shown is also very good and that it continues to spread if possible, and I would like to use, of course, these two minutes to try to convince the MPs in our National Assembly to adopt our amendment to Article 77. Proposal for a law on security relating to the reserve. Here is what it says in Article 77, respected gentlemen - the Statute of the mutual insurance company must be a certain way of forming a reserve to cover the shortfall in the company's business, the contributions (primes) used annually to form these reserves and the minimum amount of these reserves. I repeat here once again to all the MPs who have fear, it is possible that, by erasing, for example, Article 77 of this insurance bill, one legal gap can arise around an area governed by this bill that is not true and that there is no reason for fear. I find confirmation of these words of my own and of the reasons for the passing of this law where our guests from the NBS have concluded that there is already a legislative framework for the supervision of the activity of insurance, that this framework makes up the Insurance Act. If article 77 is deleted, it does not mean that the existing Insurance Act is deleted, gentlemen. Therefore, there is no reason for fear of anything, of anyone, to vote for the New Party's amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16668	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16669	The Honorable Chairman, I don't see that there's anything that they've suggested, they're just reading the bill given by the National Bank. For SNS, time is money, and money is time. So we'd get there as soon as we could, in a way, get all the laws out here without watching them act according to those laws. Official explanation for why this law is deleted and all 281. It says – the name above the member and the article 77 are deleted and said, this amendment has been submitted to the text of the amendment to Article 1. harmonised with regard to the defined objective. This is their official explanation without the amendment, because if an amendment is submitted and it is said to be "expunged" then it must be explained why it is deleted or if a position is deleted then the other views are unchanged, and Article 2 is deleted. So we don't hear anything new about these 77 amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16670	On behalf of the members and members of the 78th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16671	Rights and obligations of members, Article 78. – the insurance undertaking acquires the property of a member of the company and for mutual insurance by signing an insurance contract. A member of a mutual insurance company shall not be liable for the obligations of that company. A member of a mutual insurance company shall not be able to break its obligations to pay contributions and subsequent payments to this company’s claims against this company. Payments of contributions and allocations must be subject to equal conditions for all members of the mutual insurance company. For the reasons we have already mentioned, we are seeking to delete this member of the law, because of the problem with the procedure and the violent short time to get to know this law. Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Vice Governor to explain to us the essence of the mutual security society. As far as I know, such societies are not in this Serbia today, or am I wrong? I think it would be educational for both the public and the MPs to find out a little more about the mutual insurance companies. In my knowledge, they are not in Serbia today. If there are, who are, if they're not there, why aren't there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16672	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16673	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Rule 107, the dignity of the Assembly. I have a stenogram here. About 20 minutes ago, an esteemed colleague who had just explained this amendment said he would be working by 18 hours today. I don't mind if they keep working. We'll be here, we'll explain, we're ready and to sleep, it's no problem. But it's not nice to deceive the public and the MPs. I ask him, if he said he'd be working by 18 hours, that for once in his life he would have fulfilled his word, as he said he would resign as MPs, and he has not done so so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16674	The 107th article says that speakers are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and unfortunately, the violation of the Rules of Procedure can only be done by the chairman. I didn't promise that. If you want us to vote, but it would be against the MPs who... (No) Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16675	Thank you. With regard to the amendment that is under review and implies that the bill is deleted, I would like to make my remarks on the arguments that are identical to each draft law. There is a minor problem with why the arguments are identical, although it would be said that dedication is indeed the work of the Assembly, but the second part of the argument is extremely controversial. The reason why this amendment is not accepted is because the bill was sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by emergency procedure and in accordance with the procedure. Therefore, the amendment is rejected because the draft law is referred to as an emergency procedure. I, indeed, leave honor, face, knowledge and honesty to anyone who has written this argument with a copy of the page that the urgent procedure is the reason for the refusal of amendments, and in doing so the amendment in the procedure, but this second part of the sentence is extremely controversial, while the text itself passed several rounds of public debate and the text of the draft law is long-term available to all stakeholders on the NBS site. This, apart from being offensive to the National Assembly, shows, I mean, not ignorance, but the arrogance of a writer of reasoning towards the National Assembly. The MPs have nothing to do with any draft of any law. National MPs may consider putting amendments on the table to seek public debates on draft laws, after the draft of the mandated proposings has passed the government's session or has been referred to the National Assembly as a proposal. If this argument is considered logical and normal here, we have a much bigger problem than whether the basis for submitting this law in general, whether more than half of the members of the old law have been changed, so that according to the unique methodological rules, it would be justified to submit a whole new bill, but this argument remains, so it remains in the stenogram and in the acts that were in our hands, talking about the proposing and talking about the impotence of this institution and the way it is breaking, because we are not actually going to dialogue on what is important to all and it is a common damage. What's the total damage, I'll illustrate another reading of the reasons that the amendment is not accepted. The amendment is not accepted, because the bill was sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by emergency procedure, and in accordance with the procedure, while the text itself passed several rounds of public debate and the text of the draft law is in a long time, period, available to all interested parties on the NBS site. You know, when you send this argument to the MPs, there is no reason to believe a single word read for reasons in the principle debate or to defend the provisions that are in line with EU directives in this insurance law proposal. I can't have this kind of reasoning and commitment to European integration, not both. Either one or the other. Since I am committed to European integration, I read this argument with the hope that the last one is both from the NBS and from the government of Serbia and from any other authorised legislator who gives the MPs a bill. The fact that you refer MPs to the bill is equally offensive, as if I were to direct an authorised NB representative to high school to study, except that we don't share both consciousness and importance, and the damage is common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16676	On behalf of the members and members of the 79th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16677	Article 79. – Assembly: Assembly of mutual insurance companies, and it would be nice to get a little education about what a mutual insurance company is, are founders and members of insurance companies. The founders and members of the mutual insurance company shall manage the company in proportion to their roles and contributions. The founders of the mutual insurance company shall participate in the management of these companies until the deposits are recovered. Article 79 speaks of the Assembly, but of course, of the Assembly of Insurance Companies and has the same procedural objections on our part as all 78 members before. Once again, I will paraphrasise what my predecessor, Mrs Comic, said, which is that the explanation is completely pointless, to say in that explanation that because of the urgent procedure proposed by law, it is necessary to reject our amendments. I'd really like to find out who's the creator of such an analytical deep explanation. Once again, the bill is an irrelevant text for the MPs, MPs deal with the bill. Between the draft and the proposal, for those who do not know it, the difference is that the proposal is what the Government or the Other Proposer adopts, and in this case the NBS, and the draft can be written to anyone on either side and never reach the stages of the proposal. Therefore, the public debate cannot begin while the draft is, while the text has a draft level. It can be a professional debate, it can be open to the public, but it's not a public debate. Only a bill that comes out in public debate can come before parliament, which in this case was not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16678	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16679	Thank you, Madam President. This member of the law, however, I would suggest that we keep it in text and form in front of us. On the subject of reasoning and justification for the explanation that we have been able to hear and now, specifically according to this amendment, but also in the time that is right behind us. One brief note from my side. In fact, I'd like to commend the explanation that we got from the bill promoter. If for nothing else, he deserves praise for one thing, because of the way those who put together the reasonings decided to look at things, because of the angles they took, because they more than well interpreted all these amendments that we are discussing today and all the accompanying explanations of these amendments, as the amendment's proposing did them. A well-intentioned position, they decided to address what the amendment promoter put in its explanation of its amendment to Article 1, and that is why we have these answers by the legislator. I'd say, I'd be much more inclined to, I've already talked about it today, I look at what the specifically proposed amendment put into account the amendment that we're talking about, and here, and so on, he's also drawing our attention that he actually wanted to bring his own text of the birth amendment to Article 1, with some goal he set, which is impossible mission, you'll agree. Whatever you write on the basis of the amendment to Article 80, 160, or 240, you cannot affect the text of your amendment to Article 1. Well, you can't change it at all. That's why you can't even coordinate it. Impossible mission. But well, a little bit more and a mini jubilee, a round number of attempts to get there and that impossible mission might somehow come true, on which I would be congratulated anyway if we had a coma, because we had some announcement that maybe the promoters wouldn't be with us in the O.R. at that point. And certainly this amendment to refuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16680	On behalf of members and members of 80th, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16681	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Governor, fellow MPs, in short, our amendment to Article 151 provides that, which defines the internal control of the insurance companies, we have imposed an obligation to adopt an integrity plan and we have worked through several of the views we have added to this article. Unfortunately, the promoter refused, but with one very interesting explanation that I want to share with you because there are some expressions that I don't know how to interpret here. It is said that the NBS will, in its sublegislative act, be closer to regulating the system in line with EIP recommendations, where further detail will be given to what is covered by this system. It will certainly cover the integrity plan, which is good, but it will be arranged by some sublegal act because the members of the insurance company's management are also members of the company that meet the prescribed Fit end proper, if I have well-pronounced respected Vice-Governer, Fit end proper criteria when appointed as a member of the board of directors of society. What is the regulation in Serbia that defines the Fit end proper criteria, I would like to know? I did not meet in Serbia's legal system with such criteria, I don't know which law defines them, and I don't know if it's common for amendments to be rejected or accepted, to put words of a foreign language that are not even translated into Serbian and then to ask whether anyone can understand what is written here in this explanation not to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16682	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we suggest that Article 80 be deleted. Of course, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the National Bank of Serbia, I would like here to offer three arguments on the basis of which I believe our amendment should be accepted with one previous note. I believe that it is not possible to submit amendments within whose reasons we are calling for the objective defined in the amendment to Article 1. A bill of law to make it an impossible mission. A mission is possible if we accept that it is possible to accept an argument. Therefore, gentlemen, if there is an argument, and we have an argument here, here it is going to be the first thing I'm going to talk about right now, it's not an impossible mission, first of all, that respected presidents to pass on to Mr. Orlic. Dear gentlemen, what is our argument to delete Article 80. It's a matter of procedure. The matter of procedure is, what is the matter with the honourable Members of the People's Parliament? The matter of procedure concerns the functioning of institutions. If we accept that it is not worth the procedure, then it means that the institutions do not function, and then that means that we are far from democracy, from pluralism, from everything that Mrs Dragutinovic has stated in her explanation for the bill as a reason why the law should be adopted here by an urgent procedure. So we have a really absurd situation. The other thing is also important to me, for example, citizens are sending me now and saying – what is a mutual insurance society, I've read for example now, but I couldn't explain it to the citizens right now. I admit, if I had one bad side now, I wouldn't be able to explain what it is. The third thing, we really thought as it says in the Rules of Procedure that we work until six o'clock, this is a regular session, it says Wednesday to six. But since there is a terrible desire here to discuss this thoroughly, we will remain as long as Article 158(4) allows, if necessary, until dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16683	Thank you. On Section 9 the name Section and the name of the members and members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16684	As we have come out of the section dealing with the mutual insurance society and a lack of answers to a few times the question, it can only lead to one conclusion, that representatives of the National Bank of Serbia know nothing about a mutual insurance society, and therefore they do not answer the question, everything else would be a supreme insolence, that the question of the MPs of the people who receive a salary at the National Bank, over which the Serbian Parliament has a supervisory function, would not give an answer to the MP. Then it's the insolence of the most species. I hope, however, that, as with many other things in this government, the question, or answer, is in ignorance. Section 9. – Insurance operations carried out by an insurance company in a foreign country, conditions and method of carrying out insurance operations in a foreign country, Article 81. The insurance company may carry out insurance operations in a foreign country through a branch or directly in accordance with the regulations of that State and the provisions of that Member State. For the establishment of branches in a foreign country, the insurance company submits a request to the National Bank of Serbia for prior consent to the establishment of the branch. On the request referred to in Article 2. The National Bank of Serbia decides within 60 days, from the day of receipt of the orderly request. The National Bank of Serbia will reject the requirement set out in Article 2 if, by virtue of the rules of the foreign state and practice in their amendment, the exercise of supervision of the performance of the insurance activity under this law could be disabled or made difficult. When insurance operations are carried out directly in a foreign country, the insurance company is obliged to carry out the National Bank of Serbia within eight days of the start of the business. The National Bank of Serbia prescribes closer conditions for carrying out foreign-country insurance operations through branches, as well as a way of giving, withdrawing and suspending the validity of the agreement set out in Article 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16685	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16686	The provisions of this Article shall not apply to the resecuritisation company.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16687	I have to take away your time if you don't listen when I say time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16688	If you have anything to say to me, I'd like you to tell me now that I can hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16689	Then I'll take 15 seconds, what do I do, that's the life. On Chapter III, the name of the head, the name of the member and member of the 82nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16690	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected colleagues, respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Dragutinovic and respected guests from the NBS, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 82 which is otherwise divided into two parts. In the first part, it is defined that the insurance company is obliged to notify the insurance contractor at least on the basis of the points, at 10 points, what should be notified to him, and in the second part, there is no dilemma in the case of the conclusion of the life insurance contract. What's our argument? Why do we think that article 82 with the name above the member and the name of the head information for insurance contractors should be deleted? We have a logical order here, gentlemen. For example, Mrs. Orlic, Mrs. Vlahovic, is not here now, there is Markovic, they are all in agreement with us now, I think this is a matter of procedure. The matter of procedure always binds us to the issue of institutions, and beware, gentlemen, when I read this article in 82, then we conclude that the issues of institutions lead us to certain principles. One of the basic principles that we here have to worry about about the proposal of any law, including the laws sent to the Assembly by the NBS, is the principle of disseminating power. That's why it was important, I think, that we take a careful part in the discussion of previous members, to make a kind of continuity in relation to us being a kind of government within the principle of dividing the powers defined by our fourth Constitution, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16691	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16692	Dear President, the esteemed Vice-Governmentary, there is currently no Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic here with whom we have had very many exchanges of various arguments over this article in principle. In fact, it concerns the fact that this article 82 lacks essential elements and this is the second major lack of this law. Namely, what's this about? Article 82 lists the elements that the insurance contract should contain, and nowhere calls for the constituent elements of the contract to be general terms, and general terms, I showed it to Mrs. Jorgenki Tabakovic last time, look like this. It's 10 pages of fine text text, and these general terms, students know it well, and lawyers who understand themselves in economic law, are an integral element, any contract. So, in addition to the law, the source of law in this case for an insurance contract is the contract itself and the general conditions of business. What's that got to do with you, esteemed Vice Governor? This leads to the fact that insurance companies will conclude an insurance contract but will not be familiar with the general conditions of operations that are an integral element, i.e. binding provisions for both insurance and insurance. They may see on some site these general conditions, perhaps some security insurance organisation and provide them with these general terms of business, but there is no legal obligation for an insurance organisation, which had to come out of the law, to note in the contract that general terms are an integral element of the contract and that these general terms under the contract are obliged to deliver to the contracting party. As we have so far, we will have the fact that the insurance company concludes a contract and then, when the risk is realised, or the risk arises, wait for the risk that he may now know about the general conditions that may be at his expense. This is particularly important for new risks that arise and are insufficient to meet insurance companies. In that sense, I believe that this amendment, which the New Party gentlemen have submitted, is quite appropriate. I can say, we have submitted several amendments, that I have not carefully looked at this member and that I felt that the constituent elements of the contract and the general terms and conditions, and therefore I believe that the committee or minister should have accepted or the amendment of the committee that would be subsequently made. I consider this to be a pity to insurance companies who may be abused in the midst of provisions that contain general terms and conditions that the users are not familiar with. You know well, Madam Vice Governor, that this is a similar situation in banking services where the bank concludes a contract with a client, where the client only later finds out that in general terms he writes what is not in the contract, and that makes for him a commitment under the rules of procedure of other institutions where monopoly organisations are on the other side, which make up general terms and thus bring the other contractual side into an unfavourable position. Some other laws that were passed with similar problems included that in their norms. This is either accidental or deliberate employees, or those who have worked on this law have not done so, and I think it's a huge lack of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16693	Thank you. The word is from Vice Governor Diana Dragutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16694	Dear People's MPs, the President-in-Office, it seems to me that there were enough words about these members of the law yesterday. So article 82 needs to be looked at along with article 84. ‘The insurance company is obliged to notify the insurance contractor at least about’ before the conclusion of the insurance contract and then point 2) is the conditions of insurance, which may, of course, be general and specific. Then article 84 says: “The content of the notice and the manner of notification. ” So the text and content of the notice in Articles 82 and 83 must be written in a transparent, understandable and Serbian manner and so on. I think what you're talking about is covered by Articles 82 and 84, respectively.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16695	Thank you, Mrs. Dragutinović. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16696	I'm going to express my satisfaction because the applicant of the amendment suggested that this be deleted, because that's another one in a series of car goals that someone gave himself, and now I'm going to explain why. Since the applicants of the amendments have not read the current law, let alone what is now proposed, this has not been defined by previous legal solutions. What is it, dear citizens of Serbia, just so you know? It is that insurance companies are now obliged to give you, before you enter into a contract, what your rights and obligations are from a potentially concluded contract, so that they cannot deceive you and possibly change the terms of the contract itself. To tell the citizens of Serbia that just like this one obligation imposed on insurance companies, the applicant wants to delete and perhaps wants to continue as usual, to allow insurance companies to sometimes cheat on citizens because citizens are not familiar with the conditions and it is simply amazing how much ignorance there is about current law, and this one they did not even read, which is totally scandalous, but Serbian citizens should know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16697	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16698	Chairman, I'm getting attached to what the Vice Governor said. Madam Vice Governor, it's not like that. So there are three sources of rights that are important for the other party to the insurance company. It's the law, it's the contract and these are the general terms of business. So the law, contract and general terms of business. No notice is a source of justice either by our positive right or by the theory of law. Therefore, the general condition is an integral part of the contract and it should be presented to the other Contracting Party as such, and no such notification which is given and which is very imprecise is not giving meaning to general conditions as an integral element of the insurance contract which is most important in the insurance contract, because in general the risk and premiums and all other conditions, the existence of an insurance case and everything else are discussed. There can be a lot of details that can't be summed up in the word notice, and besides that, it's not a legal term, it's a notice, when it comes to sources of law. Have you heard of the information as a source of law? No, I don't. There are laws, sublaws, general terms and contracts. So that's not enough, Mrs. Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16699	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Dr. Vladimir Orlic tells them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16700	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, will you allow a replica? I know you weren't in the O.R. the moment it happened, but I was asked a question. So, as far as the question is concerned, do I agree that institutions are important, of course I agree and there's nothing questionable about it. It can be as contentious as interpreting usefulness for citizens, matter to which a member of the law we are now discussing is concerned. So certainly more than clear reason why we should keep it, or why we shouldn't wipe anything out here. At the very end, I would like to thank the chairmans for passing it to me from time to time the messages they were asked to pass on to me. I certainly hear them very well, I understand, and I must admit that, taking into account the reasoning of this amendment that we are discussing now, all the freshness and strength of new arguments that we haven't heard all day, I really have nowhere to go, I must suggest that this amendment be rejected as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16701	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. On behalf of the members and members of the 83rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16702	On page 36 of this proposal of the law, the title – Information for the insurance contractor during the validity of the insurance contract. Article 83 states: “The insurance company is obliged to notify the insurance contractor of: 1), during the validity of the insurance contract, of the change in the business name, legal form, seat and address of the insurance company’s seat with which the contract was concluded; 2) changes in the data, i.e. the information referred to in Article 82(1) point. from 2) to 6) and point 2. from 1) to (4) of this law in the event of a change in the provisions of the law relating to the insurance contract. During the validity of the life insurance contract, the insurance company is obliged to notify the insurance company of its participation in profits once a year. “ The exact same text as in the applicable law may not be a member, but it is defined in the same way. This is another proof of the unnecessaryness of the process through the adoption of this law and some speed on a nervous base, which has obviously affected the entire current political scene of Serbia, and this, as we know from earlier times and as it is known from specialist findings, has never been good for one country and for one society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16703	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16704	Just one addition to the vice governor. Even this part you quoted doesn't apply to the content of the contract. I'm talking about article 83. It refers to changes in circumstances that occur after the conclusion of the contract. You have a subtitle – Information for the insurance contractor during the validity of the insurance contract. So it's not about the elements of the contract, it's about the circumstances that happen after the conclusion of the contract and what the insurance organisation is obliged to do to the team, so the team is more likely to apply what I said about the content of the contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16705	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16706	Let's just say, maybe I could agree with you that the word was to be notified, maybe it could be found more appropriate. In addition to this law, however, there is a Law on Bond Relations, and in this law it is defined that general and special conditions of insurance are an integral part of the contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16707	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16708	I am reporting under this amendment because these are very important members who, I repeat, have not been defined by an earlier Insurance Act because someone has allowed insurance companies to operate non-transparently and to hide from citizens the conditions of business. Now it is impossible and insurance companies under this law are obliged to give you all the conditions, and during the duration of the contract to make possible changes mandatory and to send them to you. This is very important, to introduce the duty of insurance companies to do so, and the gentlemen are asking for it to be erased and to continue as it is. Citizens of Serbia, you are required to know that colleagues who submit such amendments still want insurance companies to have the opportunity to possibly cheat on you, but that's on them. Let him explain why they continue to insist on such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16709	Thank you. The word is made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, following the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16710	This is actually a replica of what she said, but I will use the time of the parliamentary group. Dear Vice Governor, this is the first meaningful answer I've received on this subject. True, the Bond Relations Act prescribes that general terms are part of the contract. It is true and it is not disputed, but it is very important that in the individual law relating to this matter, it stands and that these general terms be handed over to the Contracting Party. Allow me, not knowing the parties, just every contracting party, the Law on Liabilities, and that is why special laws prescribe the obligation of one who is in a monopoly position to hand over these general terms of business to another Contracting Party. Not only that, but also the font of letters that must be general terms. You know this applies to the Consumers Act and the Tourism Act, where the font of the letters is prescribed, so that the Contracting Party can read it, not just see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16711	Thank you. Just so you know, you haven't had any more time for the MPs' group, but it's been denied since the time of the boss, where you no longer have, you've had 53 seconds. The word is Mrs. Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16712	Dear Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I just wanted to express my regret that you did not propose such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16713	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 84th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16714	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Ms Dragutinović, and the esteemed NBS guests, have indeed been difficult at the end of the 9th hour of a continuous debate to explain the amendments to the members of this bill, but I agree that we should continue to do this here patiently and until the end of our time that we are at our disposal in this debate. Article 84, if read carefully, pages 1, 2, 3 and 4, is clearly related to the Articles 82 and 83 of this proposal, which means that the argument we used as the basis for erasing art. 83nd and 82nd also applies to Article 84. I don't believe there's a single MP here who doesn't know what our basic argument is about erasing all the members of this bill, even for article 84 concerning the content of the notice and the manner of communication. I would like to remind the MPs that we have further arguments and rightly so are the MPs who have noticed that we are constantly bringing a freshness into our debate. We must always enrich our argument with some new arguments here, so compared to Article 84, we have two arguments past this central one, which we have defined in Article 1. The first additional argument concerns what MPs should always deal with, which is to maintain and maintain the principle of the Constitution, which can be applied to Article 84 if we do not decide to delete this article. The second argument concerns inconsistencies in the approach of the promoter, which we as the National Assembly overseeing the work of the promoters must react to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16715	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16716	I'll be brief. Someone here is playing and having fun and thinks they're bringing some kind of freshness, and this is about serious things, how citizens are protecting themselves from the potential scams of insurance companies. That's why I can't accept this kind of discussion, because maybe a lot of citizens are damaged by the various double-crossing actions that seemed to be in this country thanks to the highly non-transparent business of insurance companies. Therefore, I cannot accept such ridicule and mockery of a serious legal proposal that you have not even been able to read, but read it now as you submit these amendments – is deleted. But citizens need to know that their protection, provided for by this law, is what you want to wipe out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16717	Thank you. The 84th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The People's Messenger Sabina Dazdarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16718	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that we of the Party of Democratic Action have proposed would allow for notifications from the Art. 82nd and 83rd, as well as letters to the insurance company and to a member of national minorities, to be delivered in the language of national minorities. The law on official use of the language and letters of Article 1 provides that citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia who live in the territory of national minorities, can, at the same time, use the Serbian language as an official language and their native language as a national minority. The adoption of this amendment would bring these two laws into line and improve the rights of national minorities to the official use of their native language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16719	Thank you. On Chapter IV, the title of section 1, the name of the section, the name of the member and of the 85th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16720	We have come to Chapter IV of the insurance intervention and representation business, section one – insurance mediation, insurance mediation, insurance intervention and reassurance business is a subtitle of Article 85 which should also be deleted because this solution is already present in the active law and this active law will be valid for another six months, so there is no need for a continual procedure. Otherwise, it says so – insurance interventions cover insurance and resecuritisation activities. So, to repeat this creative text -- insurance interventions include insurance and reinsurance interventions. In the case of insurance contracts, insurance and reinsurance contracts and insurance and reinsurance companies, insurance and reinsurance contracts are to be negotiated for the conclusion of insurance and reinsurance contracts, in the case of the conclusion of these contracts, as well as assistance in the exercise of rights under those contracts, and in particular in the resolution of compensation requirements. So, the argument we talked about is already known. I understand the lack of understanding of the opposite side for that argument because of course it is clear. As soon as something's argued, it's a misunderstanding, but what do we do? It's the fate of the majority sometimes in parliament. This isn't the first majority to act like it, and I hope it's the last one. One more time for law-writing fans to repeat that insurance interventions are covered by insurance interventions. That's the first sentence, and I give credit to the creator of this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16721	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16722	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that this amendment be rejected, amendment to article 85 of this law, which reads of course, is deleted. I think this debate is already becoming slowly degutant, and I am completely inadmissible from Chapter IV and Article 85 because they regulate and regulate insurance intervention and representation. I think it's very important, and that's why I think it's unacceptable to delete something like that just like that. I don't think anyone here in the O.R. has any fundamental objections to the member himself. Since we have heard various quotes of Skerlic and others here today, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity and briefly quote the famous Serbian lawyer and Professor Balthazar Bogisic in his saying – which the coat of arms is born, the time does not correct, or the time is not corrected. The political career and the political functioning of the proposings of this amendment were wrongly born and now nothing, time or anything else can correct that mistake and it is clearly seen from the appearance of the two. Thank you. I hope you refuse this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16723	Please, Mr. Markovic. On behalf of the members and members of the 86th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Becic, Mrs Dragutinovic and the esteemed NBS guests, I must make one previous note before I turn to the amendments. I don't think Alexander Vukic's ever been photographed here in the National Assembly. It happened to me. Exactly in front of me is a photograph of Mr. Orlic, Mr. Giric, Mr. Markovic, and now I don't know whether I am interpreting it as a kind of additional support for SNS MPs to continue even more seriously, even more thoroughly or equally seriously and thoroughly in the debate on the amendments to this bill, or perhaps we should understand it as a different kind of message? That's a previous note. We have submitted an amendment, gentlemen, to Article 86, as Mr. Becic has said here, the insurance bill proposal, and Article 86 is about carrying out insurance intervention operations. To remind the MPs who may be because we have been discussing for a long time, perhaps the concentration has dropped, gone, just to remind us that our key argument is also important here for Article 86 to propose that Article 86, as well as the other members of this bill, are deleted, that it is because we are being shortened time for discussion, and that the application of this bill after adoption, is delayed by six months, Mr Mijatovic is being followed, from the day of entry into force, and that other law, when we reach it, on payment traffic even from 1 October 2015. Let's imagine respected gentlemen about it and perhaps accept another amendment of the New Party to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16725	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has the head of SNS parliamentary group Zoran Babic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16726	When the argument arises from the unread law for political insatiables it is ideal and every applause and vigilance of SNS MPs... Bon appétit, Mr. Pavicevic. If you're hungry and your concentration is down, go to the buffet. Do not humiliate this National Assembly with the crumbs you leave here in the National Assembly because it is, at the very least, an insolent violation of the Rules of Procedure and the demeaning of the National Assembly. If you're hungry, if your concentration has dropped, please come out and go to the buffet and go to the restaurant, the restaurant works. Do not belittle this National Assembly any more. When the argument stems from an unread law, out of the desire to make political performance, out of the desire to promote personal and political hatred, what can be better for non-exploited people? I would also like to give you the time of the SNS parliamentary group. It's such a performance, so it's perfect for us. The real face, the real face of SNS patience, the true face of SNS MPs who read carefully and listen to everything said, but listen to people who are on the other side of the screen, listen and people from insurance companies you can't explain with the regiment – is deleted, which is why there are insurance intermediaries. Why are there no intermediaries, natural and legal persons, how many people in Serbia would lose their jobs if a member of the 86th Amendment of the New Party were to lose his job, but it is a habit of the former regime to leave people without a job and therefore...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16727	Time. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MPs Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16728	I thank the chairman. You were obliged to warn the speaker of a violation of article 107, which said in attitude 1 – the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, which did not happen. In the second point, he says that a session of the National Assembly does not allow the direct address of the MP to another MP. (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: But it is allowed to be grinded. ) I ask you now to warn MP Zoran Babic not to throw away while I explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as it is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16729	Please, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16730	He keeps throwing. I can defend everyone's right to a free word as long as it takes all MPs to learn the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that have not been read. If they'd read it, they'd have seen it's forbidden. The second position of the 107th member is therefore not allowed, at the session of the National Assembly, to directly address the MP to another MP, to use offensive expressions, or to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. I would ask you to next time, clearly, when the MP violates both articles 107's position, when it is very obviously a threat to the dignity of the National Assembly and says his position which is entirely contrary to Article 107's position to react and remind him to read the Rules of Procedure and to behave in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Article 107 is very often used here instead of the right to replication. As you can see, I don't do that. With insight into the stenogram, it is possible to read the presentation of the previous speaker and explain that the violation of both the first and second attitudes deserves to be warned, i.e. to require your intervention as chairman, not only on the basis of a member... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16731	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mrs. Komic, according to the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to answer you or give you an explanation and ask if you wish the Assembly to plead. I would understand part of your exposure to the breach of the Rules of Procedure if it were said by another MP. I have also warned you many times not to throw you out of the bench, nor to disturb the dignity of the National Assembly, and I wish that you would do so first when you warn other Messengers of the people. I'll take it out of your stenogram, several times in this conference, several times in the last month I've warned you not to get out of the bench and not to address another MP. I accept, in any case, that perhaps in the part of Mr Babic's exposure, I should have interrupted, but since we are trying today, because of the seriousness of the debate, to enable the MPs to, when they speak in the replica, not to interrupt them, because they in the replica are trying to explain and that in some way the MP, who caused the replica, responds to his presentation. I will try not to interrupt any other MPs who come from the opposition, I am trying so hard today not to interrupt the people's MPs in the replica, only in the replica, when they have the opportunity to speak of what they think their right has been violated and where they have been given the possibility of replication. In the case of the agenda, we will try, as chairman, to speak precisely about the agenda. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Babico, just to ask Mrs. Comic if you'd like the assembly to come forward? No, I don't. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16732	Article 108, Mr. Chairman. I would ask, in this way, not you, but how they were characterized today, not by the SNS, but by some people sitting behind them, the wicked, who wrote such a Rules of Procedure. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Where does it say, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16733	Mr. Veselinović, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16734	... That something that's done in this room, and it's inappropriate, it's not dignified, it's not a private matter? I think when we get hold of the doorknob, not these, for the handle of the National Assembly every morning when we come, we forget privacy. Where does the Rules of Procedure say that it is allowed, perhaps not to all, but perhaps to some, there may be two Rules of Procedures, a selective Rules of Procedure, so one Rules of Procedure refers to one, and the other to another, to bring food into the Hall of the National Assembly? If we debate, if I accept an invitation to debate, and I think this is a place to debate, and it's civilized, it's normal, academically congratulating, politically congratulating the man you're having a debate with, looking at him with a concentration, not a full mouth. Where does it say it's allowed? Where does it say that pointing to irregularities, to reducing the dignity of the National Assembly, I violate the Rules of Procedure? Just the ones who created a Rules of Procedure like this, right out of those...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16735	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16736	... as Mr. Zivkovic said, evil people.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16737	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I ask all MPs, especially the MPs who, at some point because of the burning of speech, the presentations, do exactly what they later report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and criticise other MPs, not to do so. First they look at themselves, then they criticize the instructions to the other. Excuse me. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16738	Chairman, I will not make it difficult for you to conduct this session. I'm advertising an article. 27 and 107, because of this debate that is now being held, which is not appropriate to the National Assembly, and also because of the reasons that led to this. In fact, it happened today, for the first time in Parliament's history, if anyone can correct me, I'd like him to tell me that we're going to end the session today, and we're not going to discuss any amendments and that the amendments will not be discussed. For what? Because of the urgent procedure, the government has united five laws and thus made it impossible for MPs to explain their amendments. Now we're all a little nervous because some MPs who have submitted their amendments and would like to explain them couldn't even have lunch today or breakfast, and they won't be able to explain them anyway. I think that the responsibility of the day when a decision on the unification of the debate was made should be taken into account that there were five laws, five large-scale laws with over a thousand pages of text, not only of the law, but of the arguments and others, we had to make sure that we would not even be able to explain the amendment and that there would be such a situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16739	Mr. Veseinović, I said earlier, I would not like to repeat myself, I think that first you, the heads of Parliament, should take care that you report less in fictional replicas, that you respect what the Vice Governor, Mrs. Dragutinović, is doing all the time since this morning, than 10.00 hours, in the hall, patiently listens to you, answers your questions, to your presentations, gives you the information you need. A little less to talk about replicas, fictional violations of the Rules of Procedure, and more to talk about agendas and amendments, and certainly not to be on the 86th Amendment, but certainly to be at the end of this debate on amendments. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 87th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16740	Article 87 deals with the ban on insurance interventions and says that the insurance brokerage company cannot intervene to conclude an insurance contract, resecuritisation with the insurance and reinsurance company, if the conclusion of those contracts would be contrary to this law. No matter what you say "s", not "s", that's not the point. The substance is Article 278, which states – the rules for the enforcement of this law will be laid down within six months of the date of entry into force of this law, except for the rules laid down in Article 243(4) of this Act which will be adopted after the application of this Law. By the time the rules laid down in Article 1 are adopted, regulations will be adopted under the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia's Insurance Act, and then there will be a whole series of amendments from 2004 to 2013, except for provisions contrary to this law. I am reading this because it is clear from this why we asked to delete this article with an adequate explanation, because there was no need to interrupt one way and across the knee, across all limits of decency offer MPs a law that should be serious, and is offered in one unserious way. Of course we respect the presence of the vice governor, but just because she's present at the session doesn't mean she's given the answers. I had a few questions that I didn't get an answer to, and the least right to complain about what's going on in the assembly has...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16741	Time, Mr. Zivkovic. (National Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic throws out of place. What? Mr. Zivkovic, when I say time, it's a warning that you're out of time, but you can finish your sentence, it's not a problem. (National Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic throws out of place. Believe it wasn't intentional. Sign up, you can finish. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: It's okay. I thank you. The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16742	Thank you. With the support of the amendment proposed by counterparts Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, I must share my disappointment with the MPs because of the incorrectness of the agreement between the vice-presidents and the work of the Assembly on the basis of Article 158(4). I assumed that when people made a deal with each other that that would be true...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16743	Mrs. Comic, on what grounds did you answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16744	Article 158(4), which refers to the discussion in particular, as regards the amendment to the name and to the member and to Article 87. I am talking about the amendment and the time available to me to explain the amendment both that and other amendments. Therefore, Rule 158 of our Rules of Procedure states that the total time for amendments is 10 hours, which means that no more than 300 amendments can be discussed during a particular search. One of the amendments that I support is an amendment currently under review, and I want to express my regret that because of the incorrectity of the agreement between the Vice-President of the National Assembly, I have to say I will not have the opportunity to defend the amendments that I have signed, which are concerning the search in particular to the other laws. Why it's important to talk about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16746	You're talking about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16747	Mrs. Comic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16748	When it comes to an amendment which is the name above the member and Article 87. Because the text of the draft law in Article 87 is a ban on insurance mediation. It's a long way from the association...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16749	Mrs. Komic, that's exactly what I was saying earlier, where you were just saying 30 seconds of time you didn't have. You did not accept the chairman's warning that your time was up because you had one minute and seven seconds. You're talking about some deal from the vice president that I, believe I don't know, haven't been informed of. Surely if I had been informed of a deal, I would have respected that agreement. I don't understand what deal you're talking about. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 88th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Mrs. Dragutinovic and the esteemed NBS guests, here are three things here to mention about our amendment to article 88 in which we suggest that article 88 be deleted. The first thing in Article 88 concerns the establishment of a brokerage company and a business name. Now we have a few views of this member. We believe that the argument we have given in the explanation is sufficient for all MPs, that, having seen the importance of these arguments, they are voting for the adoption of our amendment to Article 88. And the other thing, I have to say here, I really didn't report back to the Rules of Procedure once today, I decided to discuss only the amendments that I made with Mr. Zivkovic, or some other amendments, and I thought that this orientation was very important so that maybe we could try to make one deal here about one thing that we would send as a message to the NBS, in this case about deleting Article 88. It's a proposal for a law on insurance. Third thing, Mr. Becic, let me tell you, I agree, and I have to say here, it's really been a long time, I haven't been out of here almost once. It's true I didn't even have lunch today. Mr. Babic, for example. He was going out, he was coming in, he was a little bit off. There really was a break missing, so maybe we can work here normally. I'm sorry I took the opportunity to say this now, and it's not about the amendment, but since Mr. Babic talked about it, it was just important for me to explain maybe there's a chance that we could take a short break so we could eat here all day, 1 here, nine hours have passed, without leaving the O.R. Well, thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16751	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I certainly didn't mean when I was talking about you, and you're discussing your amendments today, and I thank you for your correct discussion. Also, if the other MP of the new was not in the morning, I expected him to replace you in the afternoon and that you would have the opportunity to go out and eat. On behalf of the members and members of the 89th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16752	First, it would be good if the chairman did not interfere with the organisation of the work of the New Party MPs, nor could he have any expectations in that direction, who would do what and when to speak. That remark you said earlier is completely unfounded. I may have a worse expression for it, but I'm not going to use it. In order for us to plan what we are doing and to organize ourselves, it would be good if you told us how many more parliamentary groups have minutes to discuss and how long does the debate take? Since you realize that some MP group is out of time without them knowing how much they have left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16753	Mr. Zivkovic, this is no way to ask for notice. You've reported for the amendment you filed. When I said that Mr. Veselinovic was out of time, he thought of the time he had as a parliamentary group or as the head of the parliamentary group. You used your time. It's the second time that stands for the amendment debate. I'll ask for the exact time of duty and you'll get it very soon. When I said I didn't want to get involved in the organisation of your group, I just said I didn't see you in the afternoon debate, I decided that you agreed to have one MP in the morning, the second afternoon, to try to respond to all the amendments you submitted. It's something that was my impression. I'm sorry if I said it at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16754	In what part of the Rules of Procedure, does the Rules of Procedure give you the right to make your impressions public?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16755	Mrs. Comic can be your lawyer, give you the information you need,
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16756	I don't have the need for lawyers, especially as long as it's a lawyer strike.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16757	But in this case, I, as chairman, have the opportunity to make this impression that maybe I shouldn't. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 90th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16758	By the way, we realize I didn't get a chance to talk about article 89, but it doesn't matter now. The Member of the 90th is the issuing of a licence and registration in the register of an application for an authorisation to carry out insurance intervention operations of the NBS shall be decided by a solution – within 60 days of the date of receipt of the regulatory request. The founders of the insurance brokerage company shall be obliged to submit an application for registration in the register of the competent authority within 30 days of the date of receipt of the decision referred to in Article 1 or Article 1 of this Article. In addition to the application referred to in Article 2, the decision of this Article shall also be submitted, as well as the NBS Decision on the granting of prior consent to perform the function of the member of the insurance intervention management company. The insurance brokerage company is obliged to make a decision on the entry into the NBS registry within seven days of the date of receipt of this Decision. We ask that this law be deleted because Article 278 states that the rules for the enforcement of this law are passed within six months of the date of entry into force of this law, except for the rules laid down in Article 243(4) of this Act, which will be passed after the change of that position has begun. Until then, the existing Insurance Act is in force. That was the basic reason why we should be against the fact that in a very short and hasty way, this law from the NBS was sent to the MPs of the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16759	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 91st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becicu, respected Mrs. Dragutinovic and respected guests from the National Bank of Serbia, this photo remains among the SNS MPs, which I think may also be some sort of breach of the Rules of Procedure. But if this is some kind of support for our actions in this National Assembly, I would like to thank the MPs of the SNS and continue as we left today at 10.00 hours, in serious consideration, a member of the Security Bill, which was sent to the Serbian National Bank of Serbia. Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 91 concerning the withdrawal of the permit. It is stated in that Article 91 that the National Bank in paragraph 2 of the Insurance Intermediation Company will withdraw the insurance service authorisation at exactly four points – if the licence is obtained on the basis of false or incorrect data, if the company ceases to fulfil at least one of the conditions laid down in Article 89 of this Act, which we have already explained why it should be deleted, if it is established that the company does not act in accordance with the law and the other regulation and point four, if the company provides for an insurance or reinsurance company which does not have a work permit. I think our amendment is to Article 91. The bill of law is the best opportunity to remind the MPs of the SNS, first of all, that our idea from the morning itself, from 10.00 am this morning, was to try to convince you that we are inaugurating the Security Bill which, without proper procedure, has been sent to the Assembly by the National Bank, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16761	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. On behalf of the members and members of the 92nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16762	The power to carry out insurance interventions is an issue covered by Article 92 of this Act. "The insurance-related business in the insurance-mediation company may, on the basis of employment or work outside working hours under the law, be carried out only by persons who have the authority of the National Bank of Serbia to carry out insurance-related activities, in the text below – authorised intermediaries. The tasks referred to in Article 1 shall not be carried out by persons who are sentenced to an unconditional sentence of imprisonment or who are legally convicted of a criminal offence that makes them unfit to carry out those tasks. The National Bank of Serbia issues the authority to carry out insurance interventions in accordance with the following conditions: to have adequate professional qualifications and experience; to pass a professional examination to obtain an authorised mediator in the Serbian language; to have not been duly granted a protective measure of the ban on carrying out the action that makes him unfit to carry out these tasks; to be deprived of his power over the past three years of carrying out insurance interventions. The National Bank of Serbia is closer to prescribing the necessary professional qualifications and experience for the person referred to in Article 3, the content of the programme and the way in which the expert examination referred to in point 2) is passed, the way in which the conditions laid down in that position are proved, as well as the way in which authorised intermediaries are perfected. The National Bank of Serbia may also issue the authority to carry out insurance mediation operations to a person who has called the authorised mediator a glass abroad, under conditions and in the manner prescribed by it. An authorised intermediary shall be obliged to carry out insurance intermediation operations in accordance with the rules of the profession and good business practices. “ All of this should be deleted for the above reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16763	The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, respected Mrs. Dragutinovic, left one guest from the National Bank of Serbia, probably went to eat, since she has been sitting here all day, since 10:00, I hope he is with Mr. Babic, since he is not in the O.R. right now, but here he is. Zoran Zivkovic and I, the People's MPs of the New Party, have submitted an amendment to Article 93. It's a proposal for a law on insurance. I thought the best way to discuss, for example, our amendment to this article would be to imagine a situation. Let's imagine that the same bill arrived at the Assembly in a regular procedure, gentlemen, that we had 15 days to read even more carefully and then one citizen, now a message has arrived to me, asking what does Article 93 say? In Article 93, for all citizens who are now following this debate, and as of early morning, it is being followed today, I think, says: “The National Bank of Serbia will take away the given authority to carry out the insurance services of the person who: this authority is obtained on the basis of false and incorrect data; it will cease to meet at least one of the conditions laid down in Article 92 of this Law and point 3. It is more difficult to break the rules of the profession, i.e. good business practices. ” If we had this imaginary situation, gentlemen, then we might now be able to think about whether to add one more point to these three points, to subtract one, but this way, because of the previous question, because of the matter of procedure, we can't deal with, for example, this kind of substantiative thing as some sort of addition of this article. I'm very sorry about that, Mrs. Dragutinovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16765	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. On behalf of the members and members of the 94th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16766	Article 94 of this Act deals with the specific obligations of the insurance brokerage company, and says that the company is obliged to provide insurance/reassurance contractors with an explanation and advice on the circumstances relevant to the conclusion and implementation of the insurance/resecuritisation contract. In the performance of the obligation under Article 1(1), the insurance intervention company shall, in particular: before the conclusion of the insurance/reassurance contract, determine the needs and requirements of the insurance/resecuring contractors, i.e. on the basis of the data obtained from those persons; provide for the negotiation of the insurance/resecuring contract, with the insurance/resecuring company which, in the light of the circumstances of a particular case, offers the best coverage; provide an adequate risk analysis and proposes appropriate coverage; provide those reasons for the advice given in relation to the proposed contract, i.e. to explain why a particular insurance/resecuring company has proposed; inform the insurance/resecuring company of the insurance/resecure agreement to conclude the insurance/resecure contract and to offer the insurance agreement/resecure agreement, i.e. I think it's very important this fifth, so I'm going to do it again. It means informing the insurance/reassurance company of the insurance/reassurance contractor’s intention to conclude an insurance/resecuring contract and to offer the insurance/resecuring contract to the insurance/resecuring contract, i.e. the resecuritisation contract and to introduce it to the rules for calculating the premium. It is absolutely clear to every honest citizen of Serbia who has had the opportunity to hear this twice and has now figured out all the secrets of good security and what the National Bank is offering as its guarantee that it will be better. Delete for the above reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16767	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted their name above the members and Article 95 of the amendment. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16768	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, Mr Becic, the Honorable Mrs Dragutinovic, and we have a respected guest from the National Bank of Serbia, yet he is the only one smiling here, since the rest of us are running out of strength, but it does not seem to me, of course, any reason to give up the debate on the amendment to the insurance bill. Here, maybe we should say one kind of innovation here and apply it. I will try a new argument here to present Mrs Dragutinovic and the honourable gentlemen to the MPs. Article 95 concerns the protection and interest of parties. Member of the 95th urgently associates us to Article 95. The Constitution of Serbia, in which, honourable gentlemen, write something very important for this debate today, and above all about Article 95. It's a proposal for a law on insurance. It says here that the NBS is subject to the supervision of the National Assembly to which it corresponds. Article 95 should be deleted, among other things, respected gentlemen, and because, here is Mrs Dragutinović to show you, in the light of this Security Act proposal, Mrs Tabakovic wrote to us the following, I did not believe that this was possible, for article 95 says – given that the NBS has conducted the public debate on the solutions contained in this proposal, then the National Assembly can, by emergency procedure, and this Article 95. Mrs Dragutinovic, what is more obvious is that the debate over the amendment to Article 95 of this Law has been violated by Article 95. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Well, I guess we all have to respect the Constitution here, dear gentlemen, including Mr. Arsic and all of us together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16769	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. A notice for Novi MPs, on a question you referred to earlier, in consultation with the service, I've been given the exact time you have, so you have exactly 381 minutes, which means if you don't exceed the time you can defend yet 190 amendments. Are you satisfied with the answer? Thank you. Mr. Zivkovic, you have no option at this time, as soon as I give the next amendment you can speak. The 95th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaib Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Sabina Dazdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16770	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Members of Parliament, this amendment gives the opportunity for an insurance undertaking that is a member of the national minority to conclude contracts in its native language and that it may receive a translation of the contract concluded in its native language and letter. I will also refer here to the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters in which national minorities live in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in official use, the language of the national minority is in addition to the Serbian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16771	Thank you, Mrs. Dazdarevic. On behalf of the members and members of the 96th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Zivkovic. Before I give you my word, just more information so you don't get it wrong. So these 190 amendments that have time to defend themselves or those 380 minutes, apply to all the amendment's proposings, not just to you, but I've referred it to you, since you have the largest number of amendments. So that doesn't apply to all the applicants of the amendment, that there's enough time to defend yet 190 amendments. Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16772	Before I go to the amendment, I also asked for information as to how many parliamentary groups have time individually, since some do not have and some...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16773	Each individual, but it can get each individual from the parliamentary groups, and you, if you want, can get to the chair chair that gives you this...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16774	All right, I'll be there, but first, let's solve Article 96, which deals with the provisions on the insurance company and, of course, all the laws, says that the provisions of Articles 30 to 41, 45, 47, 61, 66, 68, 81, of this law are accordingly applied to the insurance brokerage company. Of course, it is an integral part of every law that is absolutely logical legal need for such a and exists in the current law, a law that applies, so that eradicating this, as other members of this bill, for reasons of inability to discuss it in such an appropriate way, would not damage or introduce any legal uncertainty with citizens of Serbia, insurance companies, insurance companies, insurance users or anyone. Therefore, since some MPs, especially some who seemed to have never been hungry, feared the people that something bad was going to happen, nothing bad would happen. In the end, proposal one, since there are 381 minutes left, which comes about six and a half hours, now that it's half past eight, I think it's rational to give one longer break, or to break up. We don't bring war law, thank God, or anything like that, and I think that one normal debate, which should start tomorrow at 10.00 a.m. and for the vice governor who sits with us all day, and we should be gentlemen towards her, as well as other colleagues who sit with us, and to protect...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16775	Mr. Zivkovic, time's up. You won't have a share of the 190 amendments if you overstep. Thank you. On section 2 the name section and the name of the member and member of the 97th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16776	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, dear Mrs. Dragutinovic, every honor for this conduct today, not leaving any of this hall, amazing and of course there is our honored guest from the NBS, we have suggested that Article 97 be deleted. I have to make one previous note here to announce, notice that the concentration here for this debate is now, the hope is most lacking for SNS MPs. Here are the ones most expected here, which usually occur, here is Mr. Orlic, Mrs. Vlahovic, Giric, and there are no other gentlemen here, no one is answering anymore, it seems that no one can listen anymore. So I think it's really time, if not because of us proposing these amendments, and because of the MPs and the MPs of the SNS to take a break and to continue the debate under the appropriate circumstances so that we can adopt the best possible law here. So Article 97 is to be deleted in our opinion, but with Article 97, it's important to know that section two, fourth chapters begin here, and that's the head of the intervention and representation business. We believe that this name should be deleted section two, representation in insurance, and the name above Article 97, which reads - insurance representation business. It is very important for us here, since this is the beginning of a new section to remind the MPs if there is more power in them to discuss these amendments tonight, which is our basic argument. Our basic argument, gentlemen, here is Mrs. Vukomanovic now listening carefully, one of the few here, regarding what is most important to us, the procedure. Let's vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16777	According to the rules of procedure, Professor Dr. Janko Veselinović reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16778	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice Governor, given that we are somewhere on one half of the Insurance Act, that the promoters of these...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16779	You have to explain why I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16780	Article 27 related to Article 87 has been injured. I believe that the chairman before you, or you should have considered that the amendment's proposings, the greater number of amendments, did not have the opportunity to present further amendments in a quality way due to time, as it has been ten hours of continuous work. That is why I think it would be useful for you to postpone this debate, to continue tomorrow so that both MPs and Vice-Governors and citizens who listen to this debate can do so in a good way, because otherwise I think we will be in a position to pass a law in a way that does not correspond to the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, today there were no breaks, no one complained, of course MPs could come out who did not propose amendments to those who were unable to come out. That's why I think the quality of the debate is broken and that we're jeopardizing a basic, essential set-up, which is that in some normal atmosphere we're making laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16781	Mr. Veselinović, you know very well, as I do, that I don't read it now, where the break can be by the book, but it doesn't have to be. Secondly, you should've thought about it before you spent all your time with your MP group, so if you'd just postpone this debate and proceed, you still don't have the time as your parliamentary group, so I don't know what the reason for your intervention is right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16782	Mr. Chairman, it's not about me and my MP group, it's about all the MPs. I intervened in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16783	Well, Mr. Veselinovic, you are not now authorized to speak for other MPs. Gentlemen of the New Party MPs are very willing to, I think, defend their amendments, too, all the other MPs are sitting and discussing in this debate so that we have conditions to continue. The Vice Governor is also, although he sits here all day, in the mood to answer your questions. On what grounds, Mr. Markovic? By amendment. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16784	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I only wanted one thing to point out today. I was listening today from the promoter of this amendment and I must admit that I was touched by his complaint that he had not arrived to eat today. I am the must of man, compassionate for human reasons to go and buy a sandwich to Mr. Pavicevic. I have a wish to give him a sandwich. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16785	Mr. Markovic, I will not allow you to violate the Rules of Procedure in such a way. And I'm sure you'll get a warning from Mr. Markovic next time. On behalf of the above member and Article 98... .. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16786	Mr. Chairman, in 106 and 107, although you have responded, I must point to a truly unsustainable situation and the inability to process such a large number of amendments now and suggest we continue the session tomorrow. So that's my suggestion, so that there will be no violation of the further reputation and dignity of the congregation in such and similar examples.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16787	I thank you for your suggestion to Mr. Stefanovic. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene: I think you should take a break. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 98th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Komic, please allow the session to continue. Do any of the New Party MPs want the word? Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16788	But before I take a word, I'm asking you to create conditions to speak, since it seems to me that some waiter is going around here with a sandwich, just before he wanted to get in here, which would have damaged this house's reputation, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16789	Mr. Zivkovic, continue. Whoever tries to do such a thing will get a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16790	He's standing next to the open door. You don't see it here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16791	I can't get out of this position right now to see if the door is open, but if someone tries to get into the O.R., they'll get a warning. Thank you. Mrs. Comic, you don't have to throw it away. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16792	Thank you. An amendment has been submitted to Article 98, proposing that this article be deleted for all the same reasons why we have requested the erasure and amendments preceding this article, and the amendments which follow this article until 271 in this law, and to those amendments which are in the second law that are in the united debate. I think it's completely pointless for us to continue this way of working, where one of the least said, one bad relationship is allowed...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16793	Mr. Zivkovic, please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16794	So, I'm going to talk about the amendment in a way that I consider cellular. I didn't insult anyone, I didn't say anything that was forbidden in Serbia, by moral or legal means. Therefore, you cannot conduct a session like this and I should inform you that because it is obvious that the intention to extort, such as this law, and pushed into the congregation, you want to adopt it. Neither Mr. Pavicevic nor I will give you the opportunity to do so and we will leave you alone to enjoy your work, sandwiches and whatever else you eat. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16795	Mr. Zivkovic, please, I just have to respect the Rules of Procedure, so Mrs. Comic doesn't warn me. So this is not a principle debate, it's a discussion in particular and can only be spoken by amendments, if you didn't get the chance to replicate. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16796	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 106(1). The Rules of Procedure - the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Why did I advertise this? You could have heard anything in the previous speaker's speech except the amendment speech. You could hear the discussion about some waiter, about the open door, about all sorts of visions, you could hear everything except the explanation of the amendment. In doing so, the speaker complained of a lack of time to explain his amendments in which he did not write anything. So either he had enough time or he didn't, but he should have talked about an amendment that reads nothing. He didn't do it... I'm telling you where the breach of the Rules of Procedure is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16797	Mr. Risticevic, I ask you, since the speaker has been warned and he has been distracted that he can only speak about the amendment, I ask you not to have the opportunity to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I am like the Chairman... I'm asking you to finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16798	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I explain carefully. The fact that you warned him, I find it insufficient, I think you should have made a warning, because after a few of your warnings, in accordance with Articles 108 and 109, he did not return to the subject and you were obliged to warn him. Already when he mentioned sandwiches, I wish he brought a liter of wine, Vinarija Zivkovic, because wine usually comes with sandwiches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16799	I thank Mr. Zivkovic, Mr. Risticevic, I apologize. Somehow you always remind me of, I apologize. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You can't go back to hurting the Rules of Procedure, because I apologized for being, here you go, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16800	I'm advocating Article 7. I'm not allowed to use offensive expressions by speakers, and don't call me Zivkovic, don't insult me, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16801	I'm sorry, and I'm gonna try to... But you understand that after all day, some lapus can be understood. On behalf of the members and members of the 99th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 100th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 101st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 102nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 103rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 104th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 105th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 106th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 107th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 108th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Section 3, the name section, the name above the members and Article 109 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 110th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 111th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 112s, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 113rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter V, the name Glava, Section 1, the name section, the name above the members and Article 114 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 115th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above members and Article 116 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above Article 117 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 118th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 120th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 120th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 121st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 122nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 123rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Section 2, the name Section, the name of the member and member of the 124th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 125th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 125th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above members and Article 126 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I ask the MPs to listen to the explanation of the amendments. Members of the 126th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 127th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 128th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 129th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted to the title above the members and members of the 130th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Section 3, the name Section and the name above the members and Article 131 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ciric and Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 131st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members and Article 132 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 133th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted a name above the members and Article 134 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 135th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 136th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the name above members and Article 137 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Section 4, the name Section, the name above the members and Article 138 of the amendment, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 139th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 140th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 141st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 142nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 143rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 144th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 145th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the name above members and Article 146 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter VI, the name Glava, Section 1, the name above the members and Article 147 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Section 2 and the name above the members and Article 148 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 149th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 150th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Section 3, the name above the members and Article 151 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic together submitted the amendment to Article 151. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Thank you, Mr. Djurisic. Anyone else want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 152nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 153rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Section 4, the name above the members and Article 154 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 155th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 155 of the amendment, MP Mirko Chikiriz submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 156th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 157th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 158th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 159th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 160th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Section 5, the name section, the name above the members and Article 161 of the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stosic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and of the 162 amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 163rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and of the 164th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 165th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above members and Article 166 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 167th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 168th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 169th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 170th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 171st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 172nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 173rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 174th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter VII, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 175 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 176th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter VIII, the title of the head, the name above the member and Article 177 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 178th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 179th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 180th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 181st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter IX, the title of the head, the name above the member and Article 182 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 183rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 184th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 185th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 186th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter X, the title of the head, section 1, the name of the section, the name above the members and Article 187 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 188th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 189th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 190th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 191st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 192nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 193rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 194th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 195th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 196th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Section 2, the name section, the name above the member and Article 197 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 198th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 199th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 200th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 201st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and Article 202 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 203rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 203 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members and Article 204 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 205th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members and Article 206 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 207th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 208th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 209th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 210th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 211th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 212th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 213th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 214th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 215th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above members and Article 216 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above the members and Article 217 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Section 3, the name above the members and member of the 218th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 219th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter XI, the title of the head, the name above the member and Article 220 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 221st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter XII, the name above the member and Article 222 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 223rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 224th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 225th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above members and Article 226 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On chapter XIII, the title above the members and Article 227 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 228th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 229th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 230th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 231st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter XIV, Section 1, the name section, the name above the members and Article 232 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 232 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 233rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above members and Article 234 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 235th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above members and Article 236 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted a name above the members and Article 237 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On section 2, the name section and the name above Article 238 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 239th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members and members of the 240th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 241st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 242nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 243rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 244th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 245th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above members and Article 246 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the name above members and Article 247 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 248th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 249th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 250th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 251st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 252nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 253rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 254th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 255th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter XV, Section 1, the name section, the name above the members and Article 256 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted a name above the members and Article 257 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 258th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On section 2, the name section, the name above the member and Article 259 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 260th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 261st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 262nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 263rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On section 3, the name section, the name above the member and Article 264 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 265th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted a name above the members and Article 266 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On chapter XVI, the name above the member and Article 267 of the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 268th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 269th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 270th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 271st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members and Article 272 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 273rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and of the 274th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 275th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted a name above the members and Article 276 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted a name above the members and Article 277 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 278, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 279th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 280th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 281st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF PRATIC SERVICES You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojšić, Mr. Dejan Capo, Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanović and Ivan Karić, as well as the amendment of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the opinion of the National Bank of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the part of the first, introductory provision, the name above the members and Article 1 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted a name above the members and Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted a name above the members and Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted a name above the members and Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted a name above the members and Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted their name above members and Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted their name above members and Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On part two, the name of the second part, Chapter I, the name of the head, the name above the members and Article 8 of the amendment, together were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted to the title above the members and Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted a name above the members and members of the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted to the title above the members and Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 12th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 13th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter II, the name Section 1, the name above the member and Article 14 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 15th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Section 2, the name above the member and Article 16 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 17th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 18th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 19th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted their name above the members and Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 21st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted their name above the members and Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 23rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted their name above the members and Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 25th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Section 3, the name above the members and Article 26 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 27th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 28th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 29th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 30th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Section 5, the name above the members and Article 31 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 32nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter III, the title of the Head, the name Section 1, the name above the members and the Article 33 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 34th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 35th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16803	On behalf of the members and members of the 36th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 37th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 38th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 39th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 40th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 41st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 42nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 43rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 44th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 45th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 46th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Section 2, the name above the member and member of the 47th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 48th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 49th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Section 3, the name above the members and Article 50 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 51st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 52nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 53rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 54th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 55th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 56th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 57th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 58th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 59th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 60th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 61st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 62nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 63rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Section 4, the name above the member and Article 64 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 65th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 66th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 67th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter IV, the name Glava, the name above the members and Article 68 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 69th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 70th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 71st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 72nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 73rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter V, the name Glava, the name above the members and Article 74 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 74th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16804	Thank you, Your Honor, for taking a little breath, and perhaps allowing the president of the Proposer to be involved in breaking up the defence with silence, because we couldn't hear a single response to the amendments we've given today. Unfortunately, this law on which the 248th amendment was filed has not been accepted, and this one of ours to Article 74 is also talking about the confidentiality of the data and we have given the amendment that among the exceptions, when it is possible to deviate from the secrecy of the data, which are counted in eight points of this law, or seven, add another point, which is to allow the Anti-Corruption Agency to have insight into the confidentiality of these data. In practice, the Agency was often denied this information because it was not explicitly written, that it had the right to access this data. I do not see how it is in the interest of the ruling majority who is fighting corruption, and this is the main task of fighting corruption, not to accept one such amendment, which is heading towards strengthening the fight against corruption, that the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is the institutional for this fight, is deprived of the right to have insight into the data, because in the reasons for not accepting our amendment, it is possible for the Agency to subdue itself under point 8 of this article, which says it can, in other cases, when prescribed by this or other law. If seven other cases are listed, why could not the Anti-Corruption Agency be included in particular, rather than under point 8. I do not see the refusal of this amendment in favour of the fight against corruption, I repeat, the priority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16805	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) Here you go. The word is Diana Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16806	People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I can say that what you're talking about is really covered by this law. Therefore, data will be provided in these cases and the Anti-Corruption Agency. It's regulated by a special law. So I don't see that it's important to improve the quality of the law. So there's already this possibility of this law. It kind of seems like more of a style thing and less of a essence. That's my feeling after your exposure. So, if he wasn't here, I'd agree with you completely, but since he has... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: It could have been under – different. ) It doesn't matter that it's a completely equal point 8. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: Better to be properly deceived. Why isn't it 1? (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I can't do this, the Rules of Procedure is being broken. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16807	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 75th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter VI, the title of the head and the name of section 1, the name above the member and the article 76 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 77th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted a name above the members and members of the 78th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted a name above the members and members of the 79th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 80th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 80th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16808	This member is the next one in this law and it's similar to the intervention of the previous law, which is that we had a problem with this one institution that's being introduced through these laws, it's a good business reputation. We don't know what a good business reputation is. Is that when a businessman gets a reward for a businessman of the year, decades, and then in a year, two, three ends up in custody, some charges are filed, and there are all kinds of negative things being said about his business? We simply wanted to avoid the law of that particular, good business reputation that the proposer obviously intends to define by sublegal acts. Our intervention was to delete those parts where a good business reputation was mentioned, to precisely taxively state the conditions to be met, and to have the NBS prescribe the documentation that these conditions prove. What's amazing about the discussion we've had here today, many times about how someone doesn't read the law, and then it comes out for a word, is an explanation for the rejection of this amendment, where everything is said as stated in Article 2, paragraph 2, and we've asked that Article 2 be retained. If you look at it, we've asked for the first and third points of view to be deleted and attitude 2 to remain. Therefore, to remain all of these conditions that are prescribed that a member of the managing authority cannot be a person legally convicted, a person who has been legally issued a protection measure and others. So the promoter was completely wrong, didn't read our amendment. We didn't ask to wipe that out. I'm saying this from the fact that later these amendments to Article 81, and I don't know which other, in an explanation for refusing, are calling for the refusal of amendments to this article. So unfortunately, the promoter did not read our amendment. It's the only thing I can figure out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16809	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16810	Speaking of reading, Mr. Djurisic, you have used something that is written in your next amendment and in the next article 81, which is that good or bad business reputation. For the sake of the public, really when I read the amendments, I didn't read these – they are deleted, I was really waiting for your amendments, because I think they have a certain message and a certain effort, I was really looking forward to hearing the explanation. An explanation for which point 1 should be deleted where a person for a member of a payment institution management body cannot be a person legally convicted of a criminal offence to an unconditional sentence of imprisonment, or a person legally convicted of a criminal offence that makes him unfit to perform this function. What's unclear here? Or maybe it's a sequel to something we've been experiencing in the past? For example, in Article 21. The law on municipal police, which passed the parliamentary majority by 2012, I am sure that Mr. Djurisic remembers it, said in that article 21 – a municipal police officer can be sentenced to jail for up to six months. We've been rebelling, making amendments, I guess that's the kind of thing that people who are clean like tears have to do. In the article, I don't remember exactly which, but in the law of bankruptcy, the bankruptcy manager, the man whose property was entrusted, the huge property, and that one, that's the one that was pulled out of the drum, so you predicted that the bankruptcy managers were elected – loto bankruptcy managers. The same could have been sentenced to jail for up to six months. I guess we have to promote people with no career stains, who haven't made mistakes? What does it mean this way? I have not heard of any argument that a member of the paying institution's body may, if your amendment were to be adopted, be a person legally convicted of a criminal offence. What is it that promotes him, what knowledge, what experience, what experience does he have? He's a thief, he's a criminal, he's a corrupter. Please don't, there's really no flat-rates here. I looked forward to this amendment because I was waiting for an argument. I know that people who have been convicted, who have served their time, who have been sentenced to be resocialized, that we cannot leave them on the edges of our society, that we should give them a chance, but a chance at being convicted and immediately in the governing body, right now someone who has already put his fingers in the honey right next to the hive, please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16811	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16812	I can only attribute this discussion of the previous speaker to fatigue, because we've been working for a long time today. So, please, our amendment provides for erasure in this Article of Article 1 and Article 3. Read our amendment. (Zoran Babic, from Place: Points 1 and 3) No, erasure of points 1 and 3. Item 1 - A member of the managing body of the payment institution must have a good business reputation for managing the payment institution. We've been looking for... (Zoran Babiæ, from Place: Points 1 and 3) No, stand one, look at our amendment. You didn't read our amendment and you gave yourself the right three and a half minutes to insult me, to say that I didn't read it, and you didn't read it. So, to erase the notion of a good business reputation, to delete the position 3 which it says – in addition to the conditions set out in Article 2, the National Bank may prescribe other conditions that a member of the payment institution's management body must fulfil. We're against the People's Bank taking over something that has to be in the law. What other conditions? Where's the end of those terms? Who's gonna measure whether it's enough, isn't it, is it more or less? We didn't ask for what you were talking about, to delete Section 2. Look at the amendment, and then come in and say there's someone in your hands... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Take a look at the explanation. ) Well, the explanation is wrong. That's what I was talking about, my colleague Babic. And whoever wrote the argument obviously didn't read the amendment. Look at the text of the amendment and see what attitudes the deleting is looking for. So we didn't ask Section 2 to be deleted and we think it should be there. We believe that the law should give as little discretion as possible to any institution in question. It's the law that's supposed to prescribe these things, not sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16813	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted to the title above the members and Article 81 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 81st amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16814	Thank you, Your Honor. So here are the points we're asking for to be deleted, point one that says he has a good business reputation. We haven't heard the end of how it's gonna measure a good business reputation. Not until the end, we haven't heard a single word about how a good business reputation will be measured. That's why we don't think it should be here in law. Maybe I'd stop calling if someone told me how to measure a good business reputation. So we're asking to wipe out -- members of a legal entity with qualified participation in a paying institution and persons who are closely connected to that legal person and have a good business reputation. We also ask that it be deleted that the National Bank determines closer to the conditions that persons with a qualified participation in a payment institution must meet. So we're asking that in the law, the tax numbers that are the terms that a person needs to fulfil, to erase a business reputation as something that doesn't exist and we don't know how to measure it and who will measure it, and that sublegal acts don't define such things, but only by a sublegal act to define which documents will prove everything else collected in this article. When you look at all the amendments to the previous law and this law, it's just that. Of course, I don't understand the argument which calls for an explanation for not accepting amendments to Article 80, which then says, I repeat, as if we were asking to erase these conditions for faces, that those who are legally sentenced to certain penalties should be allowed, which we did not ask for our amendments. I'm asking you not to go back to that again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16815	The word is Diana Dragutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16816	The honourable MPs, the Honorable chairman, have repeated several times what the term good business reputation means. So there's no precise definition, but that certainly means you have a great business biography. I hope we all know what business biography is. A certain number of years should stand behind this in the ministry without any punishment, guilt, proceedings, etc. Business reputation means you haven't done anything that brings your reputation to doubt. I don't know why it's so necessary to define. At the end of the line, there could always be a case that wasn't prescribed by law. You can never predict all possible situations, absolutely never. Why are we bringing this? So to protect the service user, not us as the central bank, all the central banks. I personally don't like much discretion, I love rules and I like to follow the rules, but unfortunately in economic policy you have to have discretion. There's a new case, some new phenomenon, some new phenomenon, a new situation. They're in a different situation, completely unstandard. There's got to be more room for judgment then, but good business reputation means good business biography. I guess all of you here know how to judge someone's résumé. How many times have I heard this debate in this house? Now let's get back to Article 80. There's that sentence that you wanted out of the law, and it actually gives the National Bank even greater authority to set stricter conditions when it comes to business reputation. So the National Bank aims to preserve the country's financial stability as a whole and system. In that sense, there must be room to act in some specific cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16817	Thank you. On behalf of Section 2, the name above the members and the article 82th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 83rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 84th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 85th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 86th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 87th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The names above the members and members of the 88th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 89th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic together have submitted an amendment, with a correction, which they propose to add a new membership name and a new member of 89 after article 89. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16818	Thank you, Your Honor. Our amendment to this article is to add a new member to the obligation of institutions to adopt an integrity plan. Then it's exactly how this integrity plan should be brought in and what it's supposed to contain. This amendment was rejected by reason of the fact that no similar obligation exists in any other institution of financial nature, as well as because the legality of the business of payment institutions and other entities is ensured through the already established procedure and supervision measures set out in the draft law. Unfortunately, this is one step back from the previous law, where we also had such a similar amendment, where when the obligation to adopt an integrity plan of insurance companies was rejected, it is said – no, they will certainly have this obligation that we will define by means of a sublegal act, because it is something that contributes to the fight against corruption. I repeat, the adoption of an integrity plan should allow for a more successful and quality fight against corruption. Of course, there's not a single institution yet, but we have to start somewhere. So, if it wasn't for that obligation so far, I don't see any reason to give up on her right now. What would be bad is the obligation of integrity plans in this case, since it is in the light of the amendment that has been rejected by insurance companies, said, no, no, it will certainly be done through a sublaw. It will certainly be done because it is a good mechanism to fight corruption. With the fight against corruption, I repeat the primary and the main objective, the government's goal is not to see why measures and proposals are being rejected to help fight corruption. Bringing integrity plans is one of those ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16819	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 90th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 91st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16820	This amendment is similar to what we have devoted most of the day, and the amendment is "expunged". It means "expect" Article 91. Article 91 provides the discretionary right of the NBS to increase or reduce its solution, to order it to increase or reduce the payment institution's capital increase as referred to in Article 90, which is a minimum capital of 20%. So 20% to be ordered, to increase, but not defined at any time. When the NBS brings it. The discretionary right is left to the NBS, of course, by measuring the work of the payment institution to bring that measure, but this introduces one uncertainty and legal and business. You don't know when the National Bank will decide. Probably, you said it yourself in times of crisis that were important to some other rule. It is also said here in Section 2 that it can also reduce at the request of the payment institution. But it doesn't say how it happens within the time limit. If the paying institution turns and tells me we'd like to cut the capital to 20% from, I don't know, some reasons, within what time the National Bank will answer that. If it's going to happen within a week, a month, it's not defined. We believe that such a great discretionary authority is not appropriate neither to any institution nor to the National Bank, that it will not introduce legal certainty into our legal system and we believe that this member should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16821	The word is Diana Dragutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16822	A little bit about this article, the honourable Members of the People and the Honorable Chairman. I have to take this opportunity and try to answer the MP in a different way. The fact is that financial sector regulation is currently changing terribly. So the regulation of the European Central Bank, when it comes to financial institutions, or European banking institutions, is changing. It's changing precisely in this direction to increase the discretion of the NBS. So, whether we like it individually or not, central banks everywhere in Europe, and not only in Europe, but also in the world, these are bases of three standards that will be adopted by 2018, introduce, say, a very large discretion in the hands of the central bank, or the financial institution regulator. Because, as you know, not financial institution regulators in all central bank countries. So for example, just to give you an example, when banks are, when I'm talking, so banks are terribly important to our financial system, because 92% of the financial sector makes up the banking sector. When it comes to banks, the regulator has the right to determine who is a systemically significant financial institution and to set significant capital requirements for a systemically significant financial institution. So, minimal capital adequacy for systemically important institutions, for which there is no definition, but the regulator is priced depending on the financial situation, i.e. the state of the country. I mean, I can understand that people have, to say that people are against, that MPs are against great discretion in the hands of regulators, but unfortunately or fortunately precisely because of this financial crisis, regulators have growing and greater powers, and also such different financial institutions for which they are estimated by a large number of indicators that are systematically important to establish different rules and capital and liquidity and reservations, etc. So this member of the law is practically benign compared to what will bring us new financial laws. The regulation is really going that way. So either we go there, or we don't go. If we want to, and we all want to, at least in the regulatory sense, in terms of the law, we have laws that are the same as EU laws, we have to accept that the Central Bank will, since it is the regulator for financial institutions for everyone other than the financial market, play a much greater role than it is now under the current NBS Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16823	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 92nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 93rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 94th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 95th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 96th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 97th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 98th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 99th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 100th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of section 4, the name above the member and member of the 101st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 102nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 103rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 104th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On section 5, the name above the members and member of the 105th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the third part, the name of Part Three, Chapter I, the name above the members and Article 106 of the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 107th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 108th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 109th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 110th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 111th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 112s, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 113rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter II, the name of the head, the name of the section, the name above the members and Article 114 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 115th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above members and Article 116 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 117th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of section two, the name above the members and Article 118 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 119th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, professor Dr Jankov Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16824	Thank you, Your Honor. And this article mentions a good business reputation. We've finally got an answer to what it is, that it's a business biography. Whether it's a business biography that someone brings in, attaches, or someone will watch the biography whether it's just that, to measure whether these successes are like this or what, we've had examples of people who were chosen here, say, for ministers, where one stands in the biography, and when you look at the success of the work of private firms that these people ran, you see that these companies have been in the blockade for a very long time, let's say. Now what about this person who ran the firm and who was a year, two, three in a blockade, qualified, say, to be a minister? The minister is a political function, elected by MPs, doesn't matter much what it says in the biography, but this is very important. It will be very important to define how the National Bank will define the criteria on which to measure whether someone's business biography is good or not. You know, for example, in Serbia, I've been saying a little bit in the previous amendment about these things that there are people on paper, and like this, they seemed like very successful businessmen, but now it turns out that it wasn't that kind of case. Who, then, will take responsibility for why these people may have been appointed to certain functions or have been given permission to do something? There's one more thing here. There are eight counts, seven different things are listed, and then the eighth says it meets the other conditions prescribed by the National Bank of Serbia. What are the other conditions now? Where's the end? What that candidate needs to know, which conditions now need to meet, because it is said – other conditions. So this point is just too much. You have seven points. Or list everything you need, because you said yourself that by sublaw you would define a good business reputation and some other things. Then this point is too much. What are the other conditions? We've deleted such members so far in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16825	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 120th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 121st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members and members of the 122nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 123rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 124th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 125th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above members and Article 126 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 126th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16826	Thank you. Dear Chairman, before you rush into reading all the remaining amendments, to take the opportunity to say that on behalf of us, the promoter, of this amendment, we accept this explanation for the refusal of our amendment that we have asked for...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16827	Please allow my colleague Đurisic to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16828	Thank you, Your Honor. So we asked to delete Article 126, which gives certain discretionary rights. By reading the explanation, we found it more useful for this member to remain in law. But, our review, the error of the amendment, we attribute to the lack of conversation and urgency of the procedure. We couldn't talk about this law and certain solutions, get some arguments, because in that case probably our amendment to this Article 126 would be lagging behind. I just want to say, I can raise my voice, I don't mind, but don't remind me, I'm glad the National Bank will have this much discretion and that it will help the National Bank achieve its role. In these three days, as far as we're discussing these laws, the National Bank has failed to achieve its primary role and defend the course of the dinar. The dinar course has lost 0.5% of its value in these three days. The National Bank explained that in one day in Russia, laundry lost 20% and that we should be happy that we lose only 0.2% a day. I am now hoping that the National Bank, with all these discretionary powers, will be able to succeed more successfully and more successfully than it has done so far, so it will succeed in defending the course of the dinar and a little help to the citizens who are in trouble because the government is cutting their salaries, taking pensions, and the rates on loans are growing from day to day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16829	The word has the vice governor of the National Bank, Mrs. Diana Dragutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16830	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I would just like to remind the MP of the NBS Act. So, the NBS Act sets out exactly what the goals of the National Bank of Serbia are. It is known what is the primary goal – stability of the price. So nowhere in the NBS Act where the currency is a dinar says – a stable exchange rate, but stable prices.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16831	Thank you, Mrs. Dragutinović. On behalf of Section 3, the name above the member and member of the 127th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 128th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Under the name Section 4, the name above the member and member of the 129th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 130th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 131st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of members and Article 132 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 133th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above members and Article 134 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 135th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 136th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the name above members and Article 137 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 138th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Section 5, the name above the member and member of the 139th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Part Four, the name of Part Four, Chapter I, the name of the head, the name above the member and member of the 140th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 141st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 142nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 143rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 144th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 145th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the name above members and Article 146 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the name above members and Article 147 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 148th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 149th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter II, the title of Glava, the name above the members and Article 150 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 151st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 152nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 153rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the name above members and Article 154 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 155th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter 3, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 156 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The name above the members and Article 157 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 158th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 159th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 160th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 161st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and of the 162nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 163rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and of the 164th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 165th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter 4, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 166 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 167th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 168th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 169th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 170th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 171st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 172nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Part Five, the name of the fifth part, Chapter 1, the name of the head, the name above the member and the article 173rd amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 174th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 175th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 176th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 177th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 178th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 179th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 180th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 181st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 182nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter 2, the name of the head, the name above the member and member of the 183rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 184th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 185th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above members and Article 186 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 187th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 188th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 189th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 190th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 191st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the sixth part, the name of the sixth part, the name above the members and Article 192 of the amendment, together was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 193rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 194th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 195th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above members and Article 196 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 197th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 198th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 199th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 200th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 201st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above the members and Article 202 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 203rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and Article 204 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 205th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and Article 206 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above the members and Article 207 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 208th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 209th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 210th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above the members and Article 211 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above the members and Article 212 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 213th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Part Seven, the name of the seventh part, Chapter 1, the name of the head, the name above the members and Article 214 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 215th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above the members and Article 216 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above the members and Article 217 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Chapter 2, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 218 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 219th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 220th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Part 8, the title of the eighth piece, the name above the members and the Article 221 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 221 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. Does Mr. Karic want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stosic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 221 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. I ask Mrs. Vice Governor, Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic to plead on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16832	Dear Members, the Honored Chairman, the amendment to Article 221 submitted by the Finance Committee has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-17-0.u16833	Given that the proposer's representative has accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On behalf of the above members and Article 222 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 223rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 224th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 225th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the above members and Article 226 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 227th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 228th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 229th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 230th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 231st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members and members of the 232nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a review of the bill in principle in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Users of Financial Services You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Borislav Stefanović, Jovan Marković, Balša Bozovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Dejan Nikolic, Zlata Djerić, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Disdarević, Enis Imamović, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kanberi. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the opinion of the National Bank of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dizdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kanberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dizdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kanberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dizdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kanberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Jovan Markovic and Dejan Nikolic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dizdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kanberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 37th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on foreign exchange operations since the National Assembly has carried out a review of the Amendments and Supplements Act in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, in voting day, decide on a bill in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Money and FinanziranjTerrorism You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Petrovic, Dragan Šutanovac, Boris Stefanović, Gordana, Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozović, Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamanovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the opinion of the National Bank of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The National MP, Dr Nebojsa Petrovic, submitted to the 1st amendment. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana, Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana, Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. I thank the Members of the People. We are now finishing today's work and continuing tomorrow at 8:30 p.m. on the sixth item of the agenda. I thank you for this long and exhaustive defense of the law. Thank you. I thank Mrs Diana Dragutinovic for defending the law.
