ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4276	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, you are facing today's Law on the Elimination of Flooding in the Republic of Serbia, a major elemental disaster that has hit Serbia and to succeed in finding a way to publicly normalise life conditions in flooded areas, the Serbian government has proposed a law to eliminate the effects of floods in Serbia. What is important, with it we really want to provide a legal framework to speed up the procedures that are important for the reconstruction process. This law consists of five chapters and it is very important that, if the law is passed, we will prepare a so-called state programme through which we will determine criteria and measures both sectoral and territorial, how a simple resolution will be carried out in all municipalities, everything that has happened after the elemental disasters. At the very beginning, I'd like to say that in Article 1 of this law in Section 2 you had a number of municipalities. What we have certainly agreed, since not all municipalities that have experienced an elemental disaster, floods, according to the Report adopted by the Serbian Government, are 126 municipalities, and this attitude 2 will certainly be changed and read completely differently, that is, all those municipalities in the Report, which was adopted by the Government, are being observed and entered into the membership of such a law. I just want to say at the very beginning, because I know there have been a lot of questions about Article 1(2). This law sets out exactly the work of the Office as a government service, reports provided by the departments sectorally to the Office, as well as the offices that deliver it to the Government, and it is clear how aid can be established, and there is also a clear way of providing funds, i.e. sources of funding through this law. What is most important to this law is that we need to speed up the procedure and this law allows us to do so, so that all citizens who had either completely destroyed houses or houses that needed some money, so that those houses could be repaired, that we could sort things out by the start of autumn. All procedures, starting with public procurement procedures, as well as other procedures concerning construction and rehabilitation of houses are accelerated, but completely transparent and transparent. This law and this kind of law does not pass, or propose to the Serbian government only Serbia, such a law has been passed in both Croatia and Republika Srpska. It is very important to chapter 4 of this law, which accurately determines who controls everything that is going on, which is related to this law, which is the competent Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, and the inspection, the competent state authorities. I believe and hope that today in principle, and, of course, through the debate in particular, we will discuss this law if it is necessary to further improve it, we are here to promote it together and that, practically immediately after the adoption of this law, we will be able to deal much faster with the removal of the consequences of floods in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4277	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or MP groups, want a word? The word has Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4278	Dear Ministers, the respected speaker of parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I speak on behalf of the SPO-DHSS parliamentary group, we will vote for the adoption of laws to remove the consequences of floods in the Republic of Serbia, we will support the report on the elemental disaster. In the time of the severe economic crisis, at a time when past mistakes come to us, when the legacy of haughtiness after the fifth October not-domestic government of the state only now turns out to be bills, Serbia has been struck by a disaster such a recent history has not recorded. We must admit that, unfortunately, this accident has united the citizens and that everyone, in their own way, has contributed in these times of crisis to overcoming this natural disaster. The state reacted carefully in a situation where it was not easy at all. I don't have to remind myself that we're a poor country without a lot of experience or rescue equipment, and that help has come slowly from the side. The prime minister was in places where people's lives were saved. He also motivated other officials, and our people, the endangered ones, the greatest help they've ever expected from the greatest authorities. In such a situation, the prime minister took responsibility for himself, so the aid came at a maximum of possibilities and capacity. All Serbian citizens are also motivated to be at the service of those whose life and materially well-infected, and even people I thought could not motivate them to move into action, to benefit others, and not themselves, have shown themselves great at times when it is really important. All media have been placed in the service of timely reporting on critical points and ways to help in flooded places. Solidarity was as present as never before. I read closely the Report on the elemental disaster, the flood that hit the Republic of Serbia and the measures taken to save the population and the defences threatened by the floods, from the decision to declare an emergency situation to the back. Citizens who did not read the report were able to create a clear picture of the state's engagement from the media. In addition to the prime minister who spent the entire time in flooded areas, we could see the maximum number of engagements and police minister Neboja Stefanovic, as well as the engagement of Minister Gasic. The report by the MUP, which has arrived under the overall report, is large, realistic and monitors the activities of the sector run by Minister Stefanovic. Such a day-to-night engagement deserves every praise and I know from the people of the MUP who are not in the leading places, that their sacrifice was on the verge of human opportunities. The report lists the recruitment of special units as well as the administration, so the report is complete, complete and demonstrates the responsibility of this ministry, as well as the government's relationship to parliament and citizens of Serbia. What do we do next? Christian is the principle – yours is the only thing you give to others. In addition to the gratitude that we undoubtedly owe to the US, Germany, Norway, Russia, the United Arab Emirates, let no offense be to other friends that I have not mentioned, and there are many, although I think any assistance is welcome to us, we must be aware of the fact that assistance from abroad will not be nearly enough in the fight for Serbia's recovery. That is why we have also joined in humanitarian actions to help and help as much as we can. I will commend Mark Blagojevic's appointment to control the restoration of flooded areas. Transparency of the use of the collected funds is very important and it is good to think about it too. The defence ministry was best seen in Obrenovac, where my colleague, Olgica Batic, who will talk about it later, made the most of her engagement. I want to take a particular look at the fact that people affected by the floods don't only need help at times when their lives are at risk, but they need it equally when it comes to rebuilding and destroyed in an elementary disaster. I believe that we will do everything to ease their difficult situation, and that the most responsible will do their utmost to be equal to the most endangered, as they were during the flood.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4279	Thank you. The word is Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4280	Dear Presidents, gentlemen of ministers, of course, the NS parliamentary group will support the flood report in the voting day, of course, and the law on restoration, but what we want to say is above all, and what my predecessor has already underwent, the enormous efforts that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made to save people's lives, material resources in this major elemental disaster that hit Serbia in May. What I must say first of all is the impressions because I was also a witness and an eyewitness to the death of a lifeguard, Dejan Lazarevic, in Topoli and after that experience, dear fellow MPs, I must say that this report, which was normally written on 312 pages, needs to teach us a lot of things, first of all, that we need to strengthen our budgets, and when we bring budgets, we need to strengthen the Emergency Sector, and that is the basic prerequisite for some future elemental disasters that will happen as soon as possible. We're witnessing that after those floods, we've had storm winds, which have also caused enormous damage, and it doesn't mean that we might have fires, droughts and all that, because obviously we're witnessing that the climate is changing. What this very extensive report teaches us, too, is that we should seriously consider whether to return to primary or secondary schools, whether under college, to return the subject – civil protection under compulsory teaching. After the suspension of compulsory military service, unfortunately we are witnessing that especially young people, when there is an emergency situation and when there is panic and everything else that happens then, have neither knowledge nor elementary training in how to behave in these situations. What else do we see from this report? From the report itself and from what the Prime Minister, which Mrs. Mihajlovic as a resolute minister said was that the damage is about a billion and a half euros, directly around 850 million and indirectly almost as much. We are witnessing that, of course, the biggest damage in the economy, of which we especially single out Serbia's Elektroprivred, where the damage is the biggest and when we mention the damage in Serbia's Elektroprivred, I would ask Mrs. Mihajlovic to tell us as a recent energy minister what a real period of time to dry up, first of all, this huge lake that was made on a spear of Tamnava in Kolubara, because by stalling every day we import electricity, and only for paying the price of imports of that electricity, we were able to restore in a significant part the houses that were destroyed due to the flood. I would also like to ask Mrs. Minister, since she is now a resolute minister of transport, construction and urbanism, of the 312 pages of the report, only a dozen sides from the public company "The Roads of Serbia", "The Railways of Serbia", "The Corridor of Serbia", "The Roadways", and I must remind all of us that these public enterprises should be the main drivers of the country's reconstruction. Whether it's a matter of mishandling or fear of management of these public enterprises, how to behave after such disasters or what we all are, at least in the media, served as an explanation, which is that the problem in the Public Procurement Act is. Of course, about the law itself, I will talk about the restoration later as a kind of lex specialist, you yourself have said and which clearly defines the public procurements that will be conducted and negotiated, but if we go back to this report, when I mention the management of public enterprises, we have also witnessed through the means of public information to mention and restore the bar track. The director of JP "Serb Railways" mentioned on several occasions that public railways will be restored, and we have witnessed that very little has been done in this part where they have been to this day. Also, what's due to all of this is that local self-government, I have to say it as someone who's been running local self-government for a long time, somehow came to some indictee position, first of all, when people from the country's rebuilding office said that local self-governments were slow about delivering flood reports themselves or were doing it in an incorrect way by increasing reports. I couldn't agree with that, and I'm asking you to respect, as resolute minister, that certain municipalities sent the same reports three to four times. You yourself, in the first sentence of your address to the MPs, told that Article 1 paragraph 2, which was listed in the Law on Reconstruction, was unfortunately incomplete and that more than half of the municipalities and cities were left out of that list. As a result, my colleague Stanojevic and I, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, submitted an amendment decidingly to all 126 municipalities and cities, namely the list adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia at a session on 4 July 2014. I would ask that the people of the country's rebuilding office simply and on that list behave and that there are no such statements in the next period. We mentioned the damage to the economy, we mentioned the EPS, where the biggest damage is. The damages in infrastructure and agriculture are the damages that follow this whole story. When I talk about the report, I'll look back at the farm first. I'm glad that Mrs. Minister of Agriculture is here today, because we have indirect flood damage today, and these indirect damages in agriculture are related to what we have as a consequence of the flood. I'm just gonna have to give you one little introduction. On the site of the Ministry of Agriculture, mapped municipalities appeared and then noted, for example, I will say only one part, Kragujevac, Municipality of Topola, Gornji Milanovac and Cačak, where they are said to be beside certain parts of the river, so those rivers or words are listed, polluted areas, so it's said that there are lead, nickels in the land next to those rivers, and that's now the problem that we... Here's an example of Topola, which each year has the largest export of fruit to the Russian market and now we have a record low fruit price, where plums or peaches are 20 din. Why am I saying this? This is important because of the viewers watching this. It's not mentioned on your site that it's only a dozen, 20 or 30 meters past those rivers or words or streams, which today if you pass them and don't exist. Foreigners see it, they think the entire municipalities are polluted, and that's why we have today a shamefully low price of fruit and these indirect damages in agriculture are literally getting bigger and bigger every day. That's why, Madam Minister, since you're from Cacca alone, we ask you to look at this problem and find an opportunity, because none of us expects it to be hidden in any way. Here it is only expected to clearly specify which belts are where the land is polluted due to the spilling of these rivers and for what time period it is and is it today when we speak resuscitated. Can your reports be removed from the Ministry of Agriculture's website, because a large number of foreigners are following it and as a consequence we have that fruit prices are at their lowest in the last 15 or 20 years? I'd like to look back on something else. When I was talking about damage to the infrastructure, I mentioned public enterprises and their management. I would ask Mrs. Mihajlović, first of all when we talk about flood damage, we have on one side roads and bridges and, on the other hand, the rink. And I'm running a community that's already on its own to raise houses, and I'm afraid a huge number of local self-government, relying on the state, is late with this story. On the other hand, and after the adoption of this law, when the state starts to invest serious funds in the rebuilding of houses, we will have a problem that we do not have marked terrains that are safe and safe and where houses can be made immediately, because the basic impulse in the restoration after the adoption of this law should be to rebuild the houses, that everyone has a roof over their heads when the coming winter comes and that road infrastructures are bound, that roads and bridges should be restored. I expect there'll be enough resources for that. Today is a donor conference, and the government is seriously preparing for the whole story, and I expect that after the adoption of the next week, it starts with a serious renewal. When we talk about the restoration of road infrastructure, we are witnessing that certain NGOs are making objections that, I must say, do not stand, that because of the adoption of this law and the suspension of the Public Procurement Act, there may be some corruption. I absolutely disagree with that. It's an emergency. We've had these floods and the state of the sea and this is the right way to find an open procurement process, clearly defined and no one should be afraid of any corruption. What do you have to follow? You must follow the quality, i.e. performers who get to work certain routes, and they will also work and design them, so they will be the same design and construction contracts. They must have by the ministry or by JP "Serbian Roads" clearly defined supervisory authorities that will sign and verify any situation and deadlines must be clearly defined. In Serbia, certain tables have appeared on the roads where they stand – contractors, rehabilitation of travel routes, and this confuses people quite a bit. That's what I said on the Infrastructure Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4281	The minister can't hear the speaker at all. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4282	In Serbia, a table with the infrastructure ministry's logo and the "Serb Road" has already appeared, which includes the rehabilitation of certain routes. The contractors are listed there, but the problem is that a very short deadline is given. These deadlines are 1 October 2014. Madam Minister, I'd like to ask you, and that's what I've asked your associates, or the State Secretary, to simply take care of, because it confuses people. Then we have a huge number of questions and questions about whether it's going to happen, whether it won't, whether it's physically possible to do it. I'm asking you to simply explain how things are. As far as the report is concerned, I mentioned the damage to the economy and infrastructure, agriculture. Here I expect these questions which I have raised clear answers from the Minister of Agriculture. The Rehabilitation Act is a key thing that citizens now expect from us. All that stuff we said, we said there's a law waiting. We have already mentioned public procurement that will clearly define the path on which the contractors will be determined. I said we should clearly define the supervisory authorities and that's all right. I've already mentioned this, and you yourself in the opening section said about the first member and the second position where you take care of the municipalities and cities. There's been some failure, and now the Ministry will give the bill to all 126 municipalities, so no city or municipality or people who run these cities have any reason to worry about whether they're on that list. What is interesting to me in this proposal of the Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia, except for the public procurement procedures, in article 4, the provision of funds to eliminate the effects of floods is said to be said – the funds will be provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP budget, the budget of the unit of local self-government and donations. I was going to ask you and ask you, Madam Minister, can you influence that domestic physical and foreign persons are free of VAT payments when they make donations to rebuild the country? As we, as MPs, have received notice that foreign natural and legal persons have already been released from VAT payments, I would ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to find the possibility of no discrimination with domestic natural and legal persons. Also, what is interesting and what the general public needs to hear, this law mentions something that is interesting, and these are public works and work actions. For all of us, this notion of action is something that we saw in movies and listened to from our parents how it was solved, first of all, in the old, great Yugoslavia. I would ask, since only one sentence here mentions how to organise work actions, select organizers, the cost of organising work actions, is determined by the state programme of reconstruction. Of course, it is mentioned that these future actions, if implemented, will these people who are engaged in work actions, in what way, will they be paid as in public works, is it something that local self-governments have already implemented in the past years, or that something that was an idea and what we heard through mass media, that eventually these people will just be enrolled in the working period that they were working on, and that the shareholders will not be paid otherwise? Also, I'd like to ask you, Madam Minister, that after the adoption of this law, there is no further justification for the renewal not to take place hastily. I expect that Serbia will be a major construction site after the adoption of this law. I sincerely wish to you, as well as the NS Parliament Club, that this huge job, which may be the most important thing that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do in 2014 and 2015, do in one valid way, to the satisfaction of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Anyway, I wish you every happiness in this huge business ahead of us. We as the NS Parliament Club in Vote Day, that's what I said in the opening part, we'll support both the Report and the Rehabilitation Act. We are pleased that what we have seen as MPs, and the Committee on Infrastructure, this little inaccuracy or inaccuracy in the first article, second paragraph, has been removed. Thank you. I expect answers to these questions from you and the Minister of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4283	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4284	There are many questions and I will be very happy to answer, I think the public of Serbia should hear all the answers to them, although the Serbian government has spoken several times about the assessment of the damage and, of course, the hardest and most affected our energy sector. The damage assessment in the EPS is 119m euros, of which almost over 100m euros are just a mining base of Kolubara. When we talk about how, how and when the base is going to be operational, I expect the EPS to carry out all the procedures, but what the reports of the engineers and the reports of all those involved, it's quite certain that before spring next year we can't expect a dried-up lake. You need to know right away that by the water, there's a very large amount of mud. After that, those machines and buffers that stayed in the water must be examined in terms of what is now healthy and what can be done and what cannot be done. It is necessary to order all the necessary things for certain baggers. It all takes some time. We are a country that will certainly have a problem with energy stability. In this context, the EPS has proposed its programme, and this programme, unfortunately, comes down to, because of this situation, the fact that we will definitely import electricity, which will depend on what season it is, or what autumn and winter it is. What is very important, related to roads and railways, which you mentioned, in addition to this law, which I hope will be adopted in the Serbian Parliament, public enterprises that have had certain damages, and almost all of our businesses, therefore, "The Ways of Serbia", "The Railways", "Electro Network of Serbia", EPS, "Telecom", etc., have suffered estimated damages. The amount of their determined damage has been rebalancing their budgets, which will soon be adopted by the government. There must be one with the other, and the law and the rebalancing, so that they can continue to be much more intensely on the ground than they are now. The tablets you see are the tablets put on those parts where they work. The time limit set has only been set on the basis of the total damage determined, talks with those involved. It's not a deadline set by a minister or someone who's not completely in what's called road construction and reconstruction and recovery, but by people who do it. Roads and railways, all that needs to be fixed, and it's about floods, and the result is a natural disaster, will be repaired by October 1st. What remains for sure and what may be delayed is a certain number of slides that are certainly a problem. The assessment of "The Way of Serbia", along with the CIP, is that money is needed to resolve the slides that are now active after the elemental disasters, of 1.5 billion dinars. So, October 1st and the tables that stand, they stand very clearly, and we stand behind that deadline, expecting both the law and the rebalancing. I believe it will be over. You mentioned local self-government and position. You said the defendant came after them. I must say as the man who runs the Commission to determine the damages of the Serbian government's natural disasters that local self-government at first responded, they received a request from the Commission to deliver their first preliminary damage assessment. Of course local self-government can't know the full way to determine the elemental damage. Somewhere they were wrong in those estimates, but anyway, it was the first assessment of the damage. After that, the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure formed teams. The teams are formed by people who are members of the Engineering Chamber, the Building Directorate of Serbia, therefore, all those who have licenses and who can appear on the ground, to assess whether something is or isn't and whether some house should stay there or should change its place and, together with local authorities, arrange further flows and do some work here, I would say, a clearer assessment of the damage. On the basis of these estimates of damage, the Serbian government adopted a Commission report, and that is why we in this Article in Article 1 of Article 2 must say that it is not 26 municipalities, but that it is 126 municipalities and that they will all be covered by this law. When you talk about the Public Procurement Act, when you look at this law, you will see that the complete Public Procurement Act applies, except that time, or deadlines, are shortened to try as quickly as possible, and because of that we are making the law, simply to speed up procedures. But no procedure is excluded and must be made public. In particular, it concerns, for example, public enterprises, infrastructure. We will have estimated damage on roads and regional, first, second and local 60m euros. So far from making a public call for the reconstruction of these roads and for the resolution of those roads. He's also on the railroad. You mentioned the Belgrade-Bar railroad. The assessment is that this railroad, therefore, what is damage, and this serious damage, must be repaired in August. Of course it's a serious problem when we talk about the summer season and the track being used most then, but it just couldn't have gone any faster. Work actions you mentioned and public works. Together with the Office, therefore, it is the office that will, together with the ministries, make the proposal, among other things, the Ministry of Sports, a programme to organise work or public works. What's important, one of the ideas that's dominated, so it hasn't been decided yet, is that people who work on work have accommodations, they have food and work hours are being entered. It wasn't about any extra pay, but it's still in the discussion between the office and the ministry and, of course, the local self-government itself. I think we have a clear plan, as you mentioned today at the Donor's Conference, and we know where the money is needed. We have teams of experts and we know exactly that 485 completely destroyed houses won't be able to be all those places they've been. There are already certain other locations and, among other things, we need this law to speed up the procedure, that is, to build without a building permit, that is to say, within one year, the building permit and the location permit are given. I'd stop here. The Minister of Agriculture will take this second part.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4285	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4286	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the Ministry of Agriculture's report on the work of the Ministry of Agriculture during the emergency situation and when it comes to answering concrete questions raised by New Serbia MP Dragan Jovanovic, if I am not mistaken, I would have a lot to say, but here I will concentrate on just a few topics. First of all, the damage to agriculture is really huge. The official commission's data exists. The damage is direct, indirect 228m euros. In order for agriculture to recover from the flood, it takes this two years and 254m euros. As for the damage caused by wartime production, above all by agricultural land, it is true that some 90,000 agricultural areas have been flooded. However, after the withdrawal of water, it has been found that vegetation, such as corn, wheat, can continue on a certain agricultural surface, so that these areas are practically saved. One significant area is completely, let's say, destroyed for this vegetation season and more significant remediation measures are needed and it is interesting that only for the removal of mud and the remediation of these land needs 73m euros. It is an estimate of the official commission and this year needs about 29m euros. We are happy, i.e. we are pleased that at 16,000 hectares of production could be restored and precisely for these 16,000 hectares over the past period we have provided seeds. It's corn hybrids with shorter vegetation, according to the recommendations of professional institutes, and soybean seeds. These surfaces are sown. That the question is a huge deal, it tells enough that it's 16,000 acres, and 11,000 landowners of this kind of help. So, the seed is provided completely from the donation and I must commend my associates and the ministry that we are the only ministry in the region that has provided seeds in this way. As of tomorrow, the distribution of fuel for these producers, and in the next period, and very quickly, and the distribution of funds for the supply of fertilisers. I have to say, we've had huge problems with both the funds and the fertilizer distribution model and we've managed to solve this problem. As for your question regarding the results of our Plant Protection Authority's examination. I responsibly claim that on June 25th, the Plant Protection Authority published the results of a survey of the chemical composition of the land on our ministry's website. These test results are the result, so the tests that are part of the regular controls that we carry out, not to make it difficult for our business manufacturers, on the contrary, to help them, but at the same time to ensure the health and food safety of citizens to what we are bound by legal regulations. So on June 25th, a text on our ministry's website made clear that the results of the examination of land samples from flooded agricultural areas have shown that the highest percentage of flooded surfaces can be considered safe from the aspect of heavy metal content. In some locations, a larger content of certain heavy metals has been found. You can clearly see that in the text published on our website. Locations which are asked about this are given very clear recommendations, where our producers are advised not to use these areas for the cultivation of brilliance, spinach, cabbage, carrots. No moment in the context of illicit or endangered plants is mentioned plums, blackberries, sunflowers, corn, wheat, etc. So the purpose of this is to show our producers that these cultures, which I mentioned, are risky, but that this land can be used for other cultures and it is recommended that this land be prepared for exploitation in future vegetation. That's not a story. Anyone who wants to read can read. In the context of the story that the report by the Plant Protection Authority questioned the purchase of agricultural products, i.e. the purchase of fruit in certain areas, I was dealing with this issue yesterday and today. Of the professional people, the people in the field, I can show by argument, I have information that there's nothing to do with this report. This report is no longer current. It is true that the purchase of plums is reduced, that the plasma is difficult, but it is difficult because the fruit of plums this year is of a weaker quality. His appearance is such that he simply does not meet the needs, or interests of some large customers. In addition, the difficult placement of our plums on the Russian market is due to larger quantities of these products from some other areas, including BiH. Moreover, the bigger problem is that there is a lower demand for this product during this period in the Russian Federation, where the great consumers, the cities of St. Petersburg, Moscow where summer vacation is now under way. So it's less demand. This is where they suggested from the field that there are certain problems in the functioning of the market chain. We are clearly distracted about what is going on, and we will deal with this problem in particular in the coming period. Please read the information on our ministry's website precisely, and as far as Topola and surrounding places around Topola are concerned, I've been informed that that's where the first convoys, or the first helmets loaded with plums, went to Russia. So much for that. I'd like to take the opportunity to thank you for asking questions about livestock, excuse me, about agriculture. The livestock is in my mind. I want to say for the sake of our viewers, listeners that with the compensation of animals, that is, the damage to livestock, we will begin next week. In that sense, we were extremely active and provided the highest percentage of animals that were killed, or compensated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4287	On what basis are you answering, Mr. Jovanovic? (Dragan Jovanovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. You've received an answer from the minister. You have three minutes, but at the end of the debate. The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4288	Madam President, respected members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, MP Boris Tadic, the New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, will vote against the report and will vote against the law. There will be more words about the law when the amendments are discussed. We have submitted amendments and we hope it will be an opportunity to seriously discuss the possibility of removing a number of risks. I think we'll be able to say important and important things about it. A major elemental disaster, such as the flood, always opens up the possibility of seeing what general policy is, what are the most important measures the government is taking and what is the government's approach to all life. That's what happened in these floods. That's what I'm gonna talk about. I'm going to talk about certain events, as a reason for a serious discussion. I think it's of utmost importance that as soon as possible it determines how comprehensively investments have been made in the flood defense system in the last 15 years, and I think it would be good to do that in the last 25 years. It's a capital matter. It's a matter important to our economy. It's an important thing for every citizen of the country, but it's a thing that's not done without the state, because the state is an investor and is in charge of it in the Committee on Agriculture. In this regard, one conclusion was adopted and I think that, besides the Committee on Agriculture, those in the Government should also be dealt with and then parliament. What makes me say that? Not only is this issue opened in various ways in the last few months, whether the World Bank loan money has been spent properly, or not, whether budget money has been spent properly, or not? What's our flood defense system like, and does it need to be changed? These are well-intentioned and large political issues, not only of a technical nature, because of the competences of Vojvodina, Belgrade and the republican authorities. I think that's the thing this parliament needs, as soon as possible, to get a chance to discuss, because the floods have shown how important it is. Now about one single thing. As it's common knowledge, I live in Capca. I had this trouble at the heart of things while all these things were happening. I met with other MPs from this parliament, and then the mayor of Sapca, Mr Milosevic, an hour before, I think, first, police General Dikic, and then the chief of staff, and then some members of the government, the minister, showed up in Šapco, and I want to tell you my confidence. So, I don't think any of the extraordinary opportunities in these emergency situations in Capco should have been taken. I won't talk about legal justification or not, the decisions that have been made, because maybe this Parliament should be dealt with, but as far as I know, the prosecution's competent authorities are determining, questioning who did what, and it's important that everything is eventually enlightened and disclosed. I want to make my impression one more time. I think the city authorities in Capco had a plan to deal with everything that was possible to deal with. On the other hand, if it was necessary to create an atmosphere that eventually produced great solidarity in the country, then, my God, there will be no end to the world and if certain things are done wrong. I want to thank you here on behalf of the citizens of Shupec and the military and the police, and all the people of good faith, who came to Shabac, whether it was necessary or not, I say that this thing is to be determined, and it is important, in future, that we have a clear idea of it. I also want to thank Mr. Milosevic for not wanting his political fate and his political career to burden all of this. In the end, the most important thing is that there were no floods and that we were dealing with it, and we've had political struggles so far, so we're going to lead them to the future. Like I said, there are all these facts that will determine, and I look forward to it. But what, I think it's really important here, and why did I say all this? I think there is a very serious likelihood that the authorities who are looking after the flood defense system, the mayor of Sapca, were giving one notice, and based on this recommendation of what kind of decision should be made, and that the crisis staff, or the Government, the Emergency Staff, to be precise, and the Prime Minister, were giving other facts and other notices, and that as far as I'm concerned at this point, and we'll see at the end what was, is the cause of a very serious one, if you will, and a system disturbance that occurred when this thing was concerned. It's important that we have a system that's capable of functioning correctly, to give everyone clear information. It is very important for the government to have a clear awareness, to get clear information and to have a clear idea on the basis of which the facts are made. So much for the Whisper. I say again, let's figure things out. But here's another important thing, about Capca, it's been done in the last three, four years 20 kilometers of embankment, and besides, of course, the fact that the water in Croatia came out of the Sava trough actually saved Shabac, but what's the point? The point is, four kilometers weren't done, and there was a risk. This is where I speak to you, Madam Minister, because the water industry is in the jurisdiction of agriculture, and it is very important that we examine all these things. So, four kilometers were not done in 2012 in September of the month. So, in September of 2012, from the World Bank's loan, we had money provided and that process, the tender was at the very end. In September, a performer was to be selected for those four kilometers. Since September 2012, until May 15, 2014 a long time has passed. It's important to determine why this job isn't done, because those four kilometers have produced all this risk, at least when it comes to Shabac and that's what we've had all the trouble with. Who did what, subjectively, as I said, has who to determine, it's important that it happens. It's very important that we know that. The good news is, I think today there are people from the "Serbian" and the Water Directorate in Sapac and they're going to find a way to get into these works as soon as possible, but we're going to pay from the budget now. I think we had money at our disposal from the World Bank, as far as I know, the World Bank has withdrawn from this job, somewhere in early May. What's more important? Mrs. Mihajlovic was the energy minister until recently, and by 25%, we will have reduced electricity production due to everything that happened in Kolubara, and that is a higher power. But what isn't a higher power? It's no higher power that we haven't been able to make a serious move to exploit biomass. I'm telling you that this year we could have produced energy, so hot water and electricity no less than $60 million. In full capacity, this system can only produce heat from over $500 million through cogeneration systems. It's a big deal. Now we're talking about budget deficits, rebalancing and the problems we're going to have because of the cut in electricity production. Another big topic is energy efficiency, as 25% of houses and apartments are heating up on electricity. And that's where we could make very significant shifts. Let me just say that between one and two billion Euros are worth investments to isolate our houses and apartments. In economic terms, they're huge multipliers. It's one of the things that can trigger the country's economy, both biomass and energy efficiency. Not to go into irrigation even though it is mentioned in the report "Serbia", that is the thing that can trigger and generate three billion euros in investment and there are no economic dilemmas whether it is worth it or not for both the state and for every citizen in this country. There is one serious discrepancy in the Serbian report. Look at that on pages 154 and 155. I think it's capital. In one place, the report said that between 2005 and 2006 to 2010, the flood defence system showed that it was capable of responding to all the troubles and troubles it could face, including historical waterways. Only a few rows behind it in the report "Serbivoda" states that facilities that serve to defend against floods in such a state that even water stops that are lower than we had a few weeks ago can lead to catastrophic results. This has to be clarified because it's a matter of national importance. At the very end, as I said, these events always raise questions about the most important points of state policy. I want to say that very well all this is happening in terms of regional co-operation. In my opinion, that's a good thing that the Serbian government and the Prime Minister are doing. That's a great thing. That's what I was talking about in this House, less – more what the prime minister is saying now, in the winter of 2012. I look forward to things going that way. Now I call you, and it's a shame that Mr. Vucic is not here, because he has essentially commanded the defense against the floods, so it would be good if he were here too, with full respect for this respectable government composition that we have here today. So, it would be important, and this Mrs. Mihajlovic refers first of all to you, that now, with our representatives in the Sava Commission, you open up a serious process of how to clean up the final trough of the Sava River, and then deal with the tributaries of the Sava River, because it is a capital matter both in economic and security terms. As soon as we clear Sava, we'll be able to open the road to the Boat if I'm not mistaken. In any case, throughout the Sava River's waterway through Serbia, which will open up economic opportunities for us, and will certainly reduce all flood risks. I'm afraid that the great deal and the bad regulation of the Sava trough contributes to these risks being greater than they are. It's a good opportunity when we meet up with such difficult things to be better than we were before all these events both as a state and as a system. I think now is the time to take all the necessary steps and steps to achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4289	Thank you. The word has Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4290	A few important things you've said, I don't think we can stay out of sight. So, let's start with the Paws first. I fully agree that the competent authorities will provide additional reports and that is the way it should be and that is the case when this government is concerned. So the competent authorities do their job and come out with reports and work results. But you also can't say that the flood that maybe it shouldn't have even reacted and that the flood in Capco wasn't there. It wasn't just for one reason because it reacted in time and because this government with its headquarters reacted on time. I think the Whispers themselves know best, and I'm sure he had absolutely no idea exactly what he was supposed to do. You can't say or you can, but let's see why, that someone was giving the mayor the wrong information. Do you know what you said? Especially at a time when we really spent 24 hours fighting together with the citizens, when we were talking about Capca, Capca or any other part of it that was flooded. When you talk about water streams, I think you were the minister of agriculture, water and forestry. I was in Smederjevska Palanca yesterday, with the UNDP administrator there. There are two rivers in Smederjevska Palanca. So Smederevska Palanka has damage to the floods of 900 million dinars. One stream was resolved, the other was not resolved precisely because Minister Petrovic, when he was minister, refused to get rid of another water stream. That's what was said in front of other people, I was a witness, that's what the president of the DS municipality said, so you were the same party. I believe, of course, that can't have anything to do with what we're a party to, but that's why in the Smederjev Palace five houses are completely destroyed, and the damage, as I said, is 900 million dinars. Therefore, this government is not a government that has formed so many water-management companies, it has been done by some other governments, and that is why there is a complete reform of these water-related enterprises, and "Serbian water" and "Vojvodna water" and "Belgrade water" etc. The policy of this government is to solve the problem. It can't happen to us anymore. You're absolutely right. We need to learn something from this. We must work to prevent floods, but not only in Serbia, that prevention must be regional. It is not possible to solve only the problem in Serbia itself. As for "Serbian Water", what I have in my report is that the damages reported by "Serbian Water" are 3.5 billion dinars, and that it is believed that it is necessary to invest nearly 19 billion dinars by 2019 to be able to say that we are really qualified and that we should not worry about possible floods that are absolutely possible, since you yourself said that the climate is changing. A very important part – energy. Energy efficiency, I'll remind you, the government where it was just last year, after four and a half years of delay, passed the Rational Use of Energy Act. The governments you sat in were four and a half years late with that. I agree, that's the priority of the state. We have the law, we have the sublaws now, we have the Energy Efficiency Fund. I think maybe there's more to talk about, that's what I'm assuming the new ministry is going to talk about. I agree with you on biomass. Also, it was late with the sublegals. Unfortunately, we were probably late in all these legislative frameworks, which is why we had a problem afterwards, but I completely agree that these are the things that we need to be able to reduce consumption on the one hand, and on the other hand, additional production. Would it just get us out of here right now when we're talking about a concrete disaster and not having enough electricity because of everything that's happened to us in the energy sector? It would help, but it wouldn't solve the problem completely, but it would also help and give less money to import electricity. I'd stop here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4291	Here you go, two minutes, replica. Minister Petrovic is mentioned, I think he refers to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4292	Me too. Madam Minister, as far as Capca is concerned, I'm just saying that it's very likely that the different proposals were received by the Mayor of Sapca and the Prime Minister and that it should be determined who was making the proposals. It's all in the documents, that's not what she said. It's important for the future to have a clean situation about it. Once again, I was there an hour before the generals of police and military arrived. My belief is that that's where the thing could have been kept under control the way it started. As for Smederevska Palanka, you know, Madam Minister, you've been a minister for two years now, so you know how one rationally you're doing the job you're doing right now, and something like that I did a year before you became one. Do you think it once occurred to me to determine what would be done in the water industry and what not? There are various competent factors here in this country that suggest it. Even as a minister I couldn't, because there's a Water Directorate that, as you know, is an independent authority of the administration, so here's the minister doing it now, but there's a director of the Water Directorate who even has the authority to bring in jobs, the government determines the program. So that's all nonsense, so I can tell you, Madam Minister, what they told you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4293	Ambassador, please pay attention to your expressions. Yesterday, I was warned by MPs from your group of MPs for much more benign things. You can't say "stupid" for someone's expression.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4294	I didn't say anything at all, but I qualified the information she got, and since she's an experienced politician, I assume she's aware that what I'm saying is absolutely correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4295	The word is by Snezana Bogosavljevic, Minister of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4296	... on the information we heard from Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Interestingly, the resources available to build and maintain flood defence facilities in a long series of years were far less than necessary. I have come to the conclusion that a historical minimum has been reached in the period from 2006 to 2013 in the allocation of funds for these purposes. It was singled out between 100m and 800,000 euros in the period, and experts' estimates say 30m euros are needed to maintain the system and improve it. In addition, the Water Act, which is current and valid, has a series of shortcomings and shortcomings. First of all, his shortcomings are that the second-row waterways are entrusted to local self-governments who are also not financially able or ready to respond to the task, and are not prepared in terms of available expert personnel. That is why the amendments to this law are foreseen. In addition, there was no integrated approach to solving this problem, so that all problems practically fell on the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management before, that is, the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment. The new law must include other sectors in this regard, meaning both construction and transport and infrastructure. So, with enormously low resources and bad legal solutions, we now simply have what we have, and otherwise, the flash floods, as we know, which have hit us are a natural phenomenon, a difficult predictable phenomenon that no one, not even our oldest remembers. So, I just wanted to say, maybe this data is interesting and maybe it'll help us look more objectively at the situation where the Serbian government and the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment in these floods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4297	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, only to be completed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4298	One small addition, which is that Smederevska Palanka is not just a place, but a place that is subject to floods. Thus, the Water Directorate is located in the direction of the Minister of Agriculture, Water and Forestry. There are certain municipalities that are unfortunately constantly suffering from the flood, and we all know that, one of them is the Smederjevska Palanka. A large number of letters were sent by the mayor of Smederevska Palanka to the then minister, precisely because it is one of the priorities. Therefore, it may not have been understood what the priority is, and today the Smederjevska Palanka has the damage of 900 million dinars of the elemental disaster, which it hit the fifth time. So, before the '90s, 96, 99, 2006, 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4299	The word is from Ambassador Petar Petrovic. Here you go. Please don't let my colleagues take my word for it, make a deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4300	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the JS parliamentary group is concerned, will support the Law on the provision of assistance to flooded areas and will also accept the report of the Government that is ahead of us. What I want to say at first on behalf of the JS and the MP club is that it's not time to go back to history what who did, how much he did, how he did, it's best to judge citizens when the elections are being discussed. Whether they give confidence to those who then perform public functions or seek others and give them confidence to perform these public functions. Now it's time for all of us to get our hands on our help and international aid and to tackle to the greatest extent the consequences of the disaster that hit us a few months ago. What's very important is that in this law that is before us, in a special, specific way, because it is named lex specialis, public procurement is regulated by a shortened procedure. Procedures for objecting to dissatisfaction in tenders have been shortened, and more responsibility has also been strengthened, spending control. For this reason, I would not like to comment on every member, this law is acceptable for the JS parliamentary group, but what I want to say, given that in Article 1. The Law and the Report of an elementary disaster, a flood, say that in Serbia these floods cover about 50 cities, which city municipalities or municipalities. I appeal to all the local self-governments that are affected by these floods, not all of us waiting for help from the government and donors, but to see what we ourselves can, at the bar level, do to help those people who have lost their homes or are damaged to a greater or smaller extent, whose agricultural goods are damaged, whose crops are damaged, so that they will not have income or have very little income this year. I must also point out to the other local self-governments to look up to the city where I come from, to the city of Jagodina, because right after what happened to us, that is to say, the villages around Jagodina, which make up the city administration of Jagodina, that we gave them first financial assistance, and then help with furniture, white techniques and all other aids, such as food aid, water and everything else, and that is not waiting for the state to give us, that the government gives us funds, but by providing funds from both officials and consultants and donors and donors of local self-government to provide these people with help. That's what other self-government should do. It's not just about running to Belgrade and asking the government for help. There are reserves in local self-government where help can be sought. On the other hand, the priority of all priorities should be to bring down the worst that one family can achieve, which is to lose a roof over its head, to build houses for people who have lost homes, to repair houses and apartments where they can be repaired and to wait for people in the autumn and winter in normal conditions. What I also want to say to this occasion, which is that what happened is that it happens once in 50 or 100 years, but no one guarantees not to give God, it can't happen again for a shorter period of time. So I appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture, and to Serbia, and to the Directorate of the Waters of the Republic of Serbia, and to the Republic of Geodetic Institute, to make a small effort, which is to go out into the field, to look at all the small, medium, large waters in the Republic of Serbia, to measure how far the river, some stream, that those who took those rivers and water streams, streams should return to the border of their own household or their fields, so that the water could flow normally. And it's also ecologically forbidden, in a way, to see how it can be done, not to throw and leave everything and everything in those waterways, so that when there's a little bit of a fall, or abnormally large rainfall, it can't go to where it's supposed to go, it's going to either fields, or houses, etc. and the real damage that are after the inexplicable, that is, the removal of which takes a long time to remove. So, the JS MPs' club will support both the law and the Report and I repeat it once again and ask and ask all authorities in local self-governments to hold on to those Serbian sayings a little bit – in and out of their beaks, let us see what kind of reserves we have and what is possible to exhaust from these reserves, to help ourselves, and normally expect both assistance from both donors and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all others. No matter how someone wants to understand it, ladies and gentlemen of local self-government look a little bit at the town I come from, the city of Jagodin, and you'll all be better off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4301	The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak. I apologize to Ambassador Martinovic, but he can't be seen at all from Minister Velija Ilic and Maric, so I ask you to raise the Rules of Procedure high next time. I thank you for giving up. Here you go, it's Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4302	Dear Presidents, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers, representatives of the government, respected fellow Members and MPs, today we have a law that no assembly, no MP wants to have on the agenda for adoption. This is a law that is passed after a major elemental accident that also has high material costs. The law is there to prescribe rules and procedures. After these natural disasters, which will be more effectively tackled by the consequences of these disasters. The law is adopted by an emergency procedure to remove damages as soon as possible and in short-term procedures. It's important that this elemental verse doesn't lead us into a procedural verse. It is particularly important that this law defines strict control of procedures and is also important to ensure transparency of all procedures. Transparency in the flow of money, transparency in defining vulnerable areas and the needs of certain areas and people to meet them and come to their aid. It is important for transparency to be over the entire funds, because we are all unfortunately witnessing major abuses in the work of current funds on some previous elemental disasters that have hit Serbia. The law on public procurement and the Law on Planning and Construction also define procedures and emergency procedures in case of elemental accidents. However, there was a need for a roof law that would apply exclusively to this area and that would refer to the May floods and slides that hit us. What are the basic characteristics of the law? The first and most important is its efficiency, given that this law reduces procedures, and we know that many houses are destroyed, that public buildings and infrastructures, damaged schools, cultural institutions, and cannot wait for usually slow procedures, first obtaining building permits, and then tendering, public procurement, obtaining certain guarantees, handling public procurement complaints. The state is an investor, and it is an opportunity to pass a law that will shorten these procedures and at this point the state must, of course, be a priority for citizens who cannot wait for winter without their home. The second characteristic of the law is its transparency and there must be no dilemma at all that all data must be public, from inflows of funds, ways of spending and the public of all procedures. Because this law prescribes different exceptions and we need to be aware, it must be clear why exceptions were handled in the appropriate procedures. The law also prescribed economics and it envisioned a rationalisation of costs. The rationalisation of costs is exceedingly in favour of Serbian citizens. The state will not charge costs such as the cost of obtaining civil permits, the cost of booking facilities, the cost of transfer of ownership, nor will land transfer from agricultural to construction, and of course it all goes to the benefit of citizens. For me as an engineer, I think the most important contribution of this law could be to creating future standards in preventing such situations. And I think, of course, as much as it's possible to manage the nature of preventing these situations, but what's in our jurisdiction, which is to allow damage procedures in these situations to be minimal. I'm aware that a "lex specialis" can't change our consciousness, but I would love it if this law has the consequences of taking us away from construction without building permits. Now unfortunately, through a bad example, through this tragedy, we became aware of the advantage of having an object with a building permit. What's the advantage of having an object that's registered. We understand what project building means. The image of a building in Krupnje that's been talking a lot, it's talking about the tragedy of the family, but it also sent a picture that the facility doesn't have the right foundation. If you're building on the project, then you have a geomechanical elaborate. You know you can't build on a slide. If you have a building permit and an appropriate project, then you know that it also contains a construction project. The construction project defines the appropriate basis and of course that no selective approach will be made to such or such an object at this time and that every citizen must have a home. I'd like this tragedy to teach us something a little bit. This is all about illegal infrastructure. We know and we're aware of how many objects are attached to the improvised, let's say, wild connections, how many illegal sewerage infrastructures, electrical connections. We're not even aware of how much of these illegal, uninformed installations we have and what their damage is. Everything that's not in Catastro underground installations for the state doesn't exist. It is now a question of who will and how will fix this infrastructure and will enable citizens to live by the standards that are appropriate. We're paying dearly for everything we haven't respected so far. I'd also like to say, praise the law, to draw attention to some of the risks that this law poses. In his important part, he refers, defines the process of expropriation. It is very important that this expropriation only applies to procedures and all works related to the removal of flood damage. The local self-government will define what plot is needed to bring some public interest, which the parcel becomes public. For that, she has some eight-day procedure. The citizen has eight days to complain about that solution. The finance ministry has about eight days to make a final decision after the appeal. This 24-day procedure is actually justifiably short to be effective, but on the other hand it's dangerously short so that we might be able to wrong some citizen. I'm asking you here, and I'm sure, I'm sure there are instruments to keep this abuse from happening. This law prescribes shortened procedures and they are, of course, necessary to remove timely damage from floods, but it would be good not to bring now, to say the mechanics in an opportunity to resolve their interests through a possible short procedure and, of course, to remove their own interest, their permission under the procedure necessary for those who are truly at risk. And another delicate subject I don't think is less important. It's a restoration of cultural goods, and I'm sorry that the minister in charge isn't here anymore, he was with us until just now. The law says – it will be implemented according to the measures that will be prescribed by the state programme of reconstruction. It is something of a minister in his opening statement of remarks. I would just ask that through this state program they define themselves precisely and that the shorter the procedures for obtaining permission for these facilities. We know that the practice of waiting is too long a permit, conditions, the competent Institute for the Protection of Monuments, and I think it would be useful for that too to be prescribed so that these facilities were rescheduled in good time. This law has been in force for a year. And there's no question that something might have a priority, which is home, someone's home, someone's house. But, on the other hand, if we don't solve everything, if we don't solve all the facilities under this law in a year's procedure, then we haven't done the whole job properly. Finally, I want to remind the citizens, I want to remind the directors of private, public enterprises, schools, institutions, cultures, sports facilities, local self-government, that if they have not applied for damage and reported damage to their facilities, they have only eight days from the date of entry into force of this law. And I think it needs to be taken seriously, in order for us to have adequate budgets, we can make a valid dynamic of realization, and of course that they would come up with the result they need, which is to help the state live the way they lived before this tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4303	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4304	I'm bound to leave immediately from these eight days. So far, everyone, absolutely everyone has reported it, I believe that shouldn't be a problem. The law has been in force for a year, but the procedures that are being initiated over the past year are normally to continue under this law. So maybe years will pass, but procedures will continue. I agree that control and surveillance have to be huge, which is why we've formed from the government's office's point of view, which is why we talk to local self-government all the time, and that's something I also find critical, which is why we have to take care of, but as far as expropriation is concerned, I agree with that difference, which, as you know expropriation, is going to first look at whether there's anything that's in the state property. If they don't, then they'll be able to do it with the teams themselves, not the local self-governments themselves, but the expert teams, therefore, determine the locations that are possible. And that was the shortest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4305	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. He has a word, Professor Zarko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4306	Dear Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Mihajlovic, respected members of the government, Mr. Chairman, I will try on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia to give one assessment of everything that has happened in the past two months, two months and a day and on this report and on the bill. Although the bill of law is the item of the agenda that goes on schedule before the report, I think we should talk about the Flood Report, because it's the cause, and the law is the consequence. It's an interesting coincidence that today is exactly two months and a day since the government introduced an emergency situation. Today we have here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a debate on these two important documents, and in Brussels we have a Donor Conference, and we expect that funds will be collected for support and assistance to Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, for flood victims. I think we should start by saying what's important. When we talk about the Flood Report, we absolutely need to limit ourselves to the time period contained in this report, which we, the MPs, have received, because this time period is also moving within May 15, when the government made a decision on the emergency situation and on June 17th, when the government adopted the Report. It was contained in this report of over 300 pages. The real situation, the natural disasters that have affected Serbia, can be taken into account by careful reading of this report and by looking at Article 1. The draft law on aid to the flooded, because this bill contains the number of local self-governments that have been affected, I must say that the minister is completely management, the issue must be resolved, because the figures, or local self-governments mentioned in the Report, which we received 41, in Law 45 plus five city municipalities in Belgrade, are the situation that certain local self-governments are not included and that is one issue that absolutely can and should be resolved, but it is understandable that here in this report not all of them are included in that moment. To understand again the situation of the disasters that Serbia has been exposed to, I cannot help but mention data from the report. The report, in my opinion, is very, very high-quality and careful reading of all parts of the report, of everything the ministries have written, in fact there are answers to many of the questions raised by the public, which are being asked today and which will probably be necessary for an explanation during the time that is coming. In addition to these 45 local self-governments, one thing should not be forgotten is that the floods, i.e. the surface of the municipalities affected by the floods and the slides were believed by or not 31,308 km square, which is about 88,361 km square, the size of the Republic of Serbia, is something over 35% of the territory. We in the Socialist Party of Serbia believe that compared to what happened absolutely today two months later, we should give a single assessment of the government's work, because that's what Serbian citizens expect, and I think that's what needs to be said. We in the Socialist Party of Serbia believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister, as well as all ministers, both those present today and those who are not present, have responded in good time and very, very successful with respect to the announcement of a natural disaster, during the flood, skating, providing support and assistance to the population of areas affected by floods and slides. The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown, in the opinion of the Socialists, that it is very competent, responsible and courageous, that it has shown that it is capable of coping with an elementary disaster, to help people, that it has managed to inform citizens and the scales of the disaster that has hit Serbia, and to suppress rumors and panic, that the government has had the courage to call things the right name, that what does not work changes, to make appropriate changes and to find better solutions. It is time to respect that the Prime Minister and ministers personally participated in the rescue of people, in eliminating the consequences of natural disasters, that, in their own example and way of working and reacting to floods and slides, they managed to mobilise thousands of people to voluntarily engage in Serbia's defence against floods and rescue, that by effective action, several tens of thousands of people were engaged. I'll confirm that later. A few dozen people from different ministries have managed to contain the spread of floods, help rescue people, manage to provide tens of thousands of those who have lost their homes and who have had to seek a new place for housing, have participated in the delivery of humanitarian aid in the removal of the effects of the flood, have organised very effectively and transparently the collection of assistance for the population of affected areas, both in goods and in money, that they have quickly animated the international community through various aspects of assistance, both through goods, money, participation in rescue actions, visits by state officials, diplomatic crusts of flooded areas, that the Office for the aid and restoration of flooded areas has been formed, and in order to remove the consequences, that the Government has shown its willingness to discuss this topic and its responsibility for what has happened to Serbia and the proposed laws on floods, and the consequences of the floods that are likely to occur. In one word, compared to what happened to Serbia in mid-May, and this is the biggest natural disaster in the recent history and response to this natural disaster, the government of the Republic of Serbia has, according to the Socialist Party of Serbia, passed the exam and deserves the highest grade for its work. This grade of our socialists is based on an analysis of what the government did and in response to several questions, which is – how did the flood occur and could the flood be prevented? The second question - what are the consequences of the flood, what was the reaction of the government and others? The third question – how did the government react to other state bodies? Fourth - How can it be removed from the effects of the flood? If we try to answer the question of how the flood occurred and could be prevented, the answer is very clear, it is the content of two additional reports in this main report by the Government, this is the Report of the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute Report of the Public Enterprise "Serbia". It should be recalled, because the report makes it very clear that what happened between 12 May and 18 May is something not recorded in recent history in Serbia's premises. I carefully watched the report, and I noticed some data that absolutely should be made public, for example that the amount of rainfall these daily and monthly maximums in certain places such as Belgrade, Valjevo, Loznica, Smederjevska Palanka, was far above the maximum recorded by then. In Belgrade, an absolute record of 258 liters per metre per square metre in Valjevo 250, Loznica 283 and Smederjevska Palanca 202. If you look at the report on the watery river of 64 measured places recorded in this report, 38 measured water spots are higher than ever in the history of measuring the level of these rivers. That's all he's saying in himself. If we consider that there were many rainfalls a month earlier, then it's understandable why all this happened. What were the consequences of the flood? Well, here, we calculated, or the office calculated that direct damage is a billion 532 million euros. When you look at these other data that are listed in this report, you will see that the example works within these 31,308 km of square meters that have been affected by the floods, the agricultural land is affected by 10%. I don't mention the number of municipalities here in this report 41. I have to mention it was evacuated 31,879 persons. In this report, which covers only a month, as all data have not yet been covered, there is a far fewer number of people that are total damage, but this number is causing due respect and points to the situation of the disaster that has hit Serbia, because it is flooded, for example, says 2,260 objects, and 1,730 and something has been threatened, mentions roads, mentions bridges, mentions damaged infrastructure projects. For example, in 24 municipalities, nine administrative districts in Belgrade were banned from water use in certain parts. This is all what I'm saying was the consequences to understand what would have been the scale of this disaster that hit Serbia. The third question is how the government reacted, but not only the government but also other state bodies, but also citizens. That's the part that needs to be absolutely affirmed. I'm going to start with the MUP, because no offense to some colleagues, I've been looking very closely at this report and there are also concrete activities of the ministers and they're not anywhere. I'll mention only a few ministries, absolutely not bringing in others in their own way. The fact is, the MUP must have hired its people to employ 7,300 people a day. No more than 18 May, 9:592, that there is practically no sector of management that has not responded, that the minister personally encouraged others to engage that it is interesting to mention that people from different police administrations were going to other affected places and were helping to eliminate the effects of floods and slides. When it comes to the Ministry of Defence and the military, the report says that 11 administrative districts were covered by the defence ministry and the Serbian Army, about 50 locations, that 10,949 members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army were employed daily, up to 17 May. I've been looking very closely at the number of people evacuated - 10,299, almost 70% of them by land, about 30% by air. One interesting piece of information that I found, I'm not competent enough to know exactly what it means, flight lessons, but using simple logic, when you compare these figures, then you come up with one fragrant data, but for us very important and useful, that our aircrafts have been practically 33 days, how much they've been covered in this report, 16 days in the air, or every day from 33 days at least four hours in the air, which tells us how much the army has been engaged, that they've been worried about the housing of the population in their barracks, the homes of the military, where they've provided humanitarian assistance, the arrangements of the coast and the dikes, that they've been providing engineering works, that they've been working on water pumps, biological decontamination. When it comes to the reaction of the Ministry of Traffic, one very important information has been mentioned to me. There is everything that the minister did personally and her ministry, but also the fact that 31 roads and construction firms took part in the extraordinary defence against floods When it comes to energy, for me it's very impressive what was done in the defense of Tent and Kostolac and the engagement of the military, the MUP, and especially volunteers, because it doesn't need to be forgotten, despite all these circumstances, we didn't have a power outage, and that's something that should be absolutely respected. I think the government has written this report very carefully. Some direct and indirect responses to what has been found not to be good are mentioned. In only two places, it is concluded that there was not enough co-operation between the Ministry of Health and the Regional Secretariat for Demography, in communication probably and what should have been done, and it is mentioned that there was a failure of the Municipal Emergency Staff in Obrenovac, which did not in time start a partial location and an escalation of events. As a direct example of the reaction for me is a data that can be extracted analytically. This is the appointment of leading people from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior in the top places in those areas that were critical and where they were to react for the flood, and in the Sremski Management District, and in the defence of Kostolac, both in the defence of the Obrenovac and in the defence of Šapac. How did others react? I don't think we can skip that side of the story either. It's very impressive what was done by the foreign ministry. It should not be forgotten that the foreign minister of the entire diplomatic court, 70 ambassadors, has hired to visit Obrenovac and to see directly what the consequences of the elemental disaster are, that the provision of assistance has been organised. As part of the international aspect, I personally believe that today's debate should not be skipped without mentioning that teams from 15 countries of the Russian Federation, Montenegro, Macedonia, Belarus, Bulgaria, Germany, Romania, Denmark, Slovenia, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Austria, France, Croatia, Cyprus, participated in special teams from the UN and the EU. If I forget someone, I apologize, but all these people and these countries should be mentioned, because it is the best evidence in difficult times that Serbia has friends. It is not necessary to forget the reaction of the President of the Republic and of his personal presence and by bringing humanitarian aid to international activities and everything he has done to support and help people in flooded areas. Although this report does not stand, it cannot be mentioned that Belgrade and Belgrade's leadership and what the Belgrade City has done to eliminate humanitarian aid can't be mentioned. No offense to any co-minister, and to those who are here and those who are not, all have engaged, but the shortness of time does not allow all to be mentioned, but I think that, as I said in the name of the SPS, the government has received the highest grade for what it did, then it refers to each individual. Special attention also deserves what we saw for the first time in decades, and this is the solidarity of our people with the suffering, their willingness to help, to organize themselves into working humanitarian teams, to spend days and nights where it was most needed. The government was one motivational factor. A call for support and assistance came across a response from people. There were several tens of thousands of volunteers, both young and old, apparently people of broad heart and goodwill, who wanted to help those who were affected by the accident. This kind of support and assistance that they have shown this special type of patriotism should also be highlighted and constantly nurtured. Trying to get through this report more specifically, I can't help but mention the question of how to eliminate the effects of the flood. That's why we're discussing the law today about removing consequences. The law should be passed because it creates a legal institutional structure to help the population of the flood area, i.e. in the environments where the slides were activated. The law allows housing and other facilities to be built as soon as possible, to make life normal, to restore production, agriculture in all those areas where the floods were and where the slides were. The law is short, but it's very clear. I say short because there are 46 members, but he answers all questions regarding the removal of the flood and the occurrence of the slide. It determines the territory affected by the floods and where the restoration will take place. It finds that the government is adopting a state-run reconstruction programme on a proposal from the Office for aid in the restoration of flooded areas. It prescribes what the state reconstruction programme contains, which are criteria, measures, deadlines, evaluations and financial aspects. In order not to analyse the further content of this law, I will finish my presentation with one assessment. I think by proposing this law and the deadlines that it has prescribed, the criteria that the law contains, the government has shown its willingness to move immediately to that other part of removing the consequences of elemental disasters, which is to help people directly. Residential buildings will be created, infrastructure facilities will be created. It is very important that there are criteria for all of this. At the end of what I said at the beginning. I think what happened to us was something nobody knew or knew. I wish it never happened to us. I think the government reacted very successfully. We in the SPS will share this assessment together with the other MPs who will vote in favour of the Work Report and who will vote in favour of the draft flood-relieving law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4307	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4308	Dear fellow Members of the People, Serbian Government Ministers, Mr. Chairman, we have two acts to discuss here today, and I suppose we adopt, one of which is the report on the catastrophic floods that have hit Serbia, and the other is the Law on the Elimination of Floods, so on. lex specialis. First, I have to ask a few more rhetorical questions. Otherwise, I must thank the members of the government for coming to the Serbian Parliament, although I think it is one activity that belongs to their regular duties. Why did Minister Ilic not present this report and defend him, not you, Minister Mihajlovic? I think it's in his job description and he's covering that portfolio. Otherwise, the DS, as you know, has asked for a special session on catastrophic floods precisely for the reason to determine responsibility and what really happened, not wanting in any way, I repeat, to reduce solidarity, great energy and what Serbian citizens showed during those days, and not wanting in any way to reduce the great sacrifice, expertise and energy that members of the Emergency Sector have shown during these incredibly bad events, almost unrecorded in our recent history. However, we as a responsible party and as the people who are opposition in this House are also seeking responsibility for the obvious failures that occurred there. The first thing I would like to start with is, first of all, that this report, respected citizens, contains detailed, tax-listed activities of each ministry and public enterprises during the catastrophic floods. Here are the things that are listed what who was doing within their jurisdiction during the flood. But there aren't many important things here for us. There are still no names of the flood victims that occurred, although Prime Minister Vukic read public 24 or 25 names, and we heard on the Defence Committee that there were over 50 flood victims. There's a number of names missing, so we can hear who the people who tragically lost their lives are. The other thing, what also doesn't exist, is that we've determined what the damage is, that's 1.5 billion euros, but there's no representation, no number, no location that shows how much this country has raised from, from which it accounts, how much over 1003, how much from abroad, how much money has been raised in one way or another, how much donations from abroad and in goods and in money. That's what we're interested in. What may be most important is the question of responsibility. There are no clear names of people who are responsible for the failures during the catastrophic floods, and we believe in the opposition that these are, above all, the people who run "Serbia", "Belgrade", and the people who have dealt with emergency situations in the Serbian government, who must respond, including Belgrade Mayor Sinisha Mali. We know why, but I'll explain why. We believe that despite the warnings of the RHMZ, as reported in the Report, these services have significantly failed and failed to carry out their duties, have not covered their preventive action to this end, to a lesser extent, which I think, when this rain falls, certainly had to happen in Serbia, but to a greater extent, the damage and human lives in some numbers could have been saved that the Serbian Government services were doing their job on time, and some obviously did not. That, first of all, I mean the ones I've listed, and there's more. However, despite the fact that we are looking for a special session and that we are looking for the formation of a survey board, the Democratic Party is still not going to meet, and we would like to see it, that we have a special session that will be attended by these very people whom we have apostrophyd, and these leaders that we have apostrophyd, that they here try to answer what was really going on or, say, Mayor Sinisha Mali to answer whether it is true and why he hides the text about it, from his site, that he invited people not to come out of their houses when it was obvious and declared that the water had entered Obrenovac and when it was clear that the whole of Obrenovac would be flooded. Also, there's no anti-cipatory or at least critical reference to what's going on in Obrenovac today, what's going on in Krupnje today. There is no reference to how the Serbian government has replaced the people who were legally elected to Shappac and brought people completely without any legal basis to lead the defence of Zapac, without any paper, without any decision. There's nothing in the report, but we have a law on the removal of the effects of the flood lex specialis. This law, respected citizens, seems to be passed above all, and do not be ashamed, say it openly, to avoid the application of the Public Procurement Act and to form another government agency run by, behold a miracle, announced, not present here by the businessman Marko Blagojevic, registered in the Business Register with a company called CESID, in a deep conflict of interest. You place it, without any explanation of what it is, what it is qualified for, and who Marko Blagojevic is to decide on the distribution of funds in Serbia after such catastrophic floods. Perhaps the fact that the Prime Minister was very commendable on several occasions in controlled media would have been said by someone underprivileged, and I'm not among the team. This law puts aside the provisions of the Law on Public Procurement that provide transparency and competitiveness, please, Socialists, I think this concerns you too, especially transparency and competitiveness, which you falsely advocated. For two years you've talked about this law, I mean the Public Procurement Act, and then when you adopted it, you didn't apply it to any big business you did in Serbia. You contracted all construction jobs with a direct contract. You gave all the significant resources to secret contracts through private deals. That's why it's no wonder that again when it comes to huge state resources, we're hoping huge state resources that will be allocated to repair houses and make life possible, you intend to share beyond that law that you've so praised. Or, you didn't predict these situations, or do you think you can admit that you've passed a law not sufficiently precise and comprehensive, so you need to bring a lex specialis? One or the other is evidence of either incompetence or complete lack of vision, which says NDS, or as a complete lack of consciousness in how to solve this problem and expertise. Maybe not all of you, but I'm sure Minister Ilic knows how to do this, but you don't give him a driver or an office. It's not correct, if I may, as a People's MP, to say the least. Then we hear we have a water snake. You're opening a new agency, you're hiring new officials, you're hiring CESIDs, for a job that will practically last, God forbid, six months or the longest year that this law formally applies. Is it possible that in a state apparatus, of all your experts, you can't find people and there's no service that can do it successfully? I doubt it exists. I'm sure there is. But, well, you ignored it. All these jobs could be carried out by a working group composed of professionals already working in the public sector and getting paid for it, which the government would simply empower for this job. You know that there was this option, I don't know why and I ask why it didn't? Once again, some party personnel who need to be tortured by the people are hired to learn what the needs of citizens, electricity, water, agriculture, road infrastructure are. What happens to those people you hire when they finish the one-time job this office was formed for? That is a very clear and concrete question. Where will these Blagovets experts go afterwards? Is it some new ministry, some existing or public enterprise or back in the economy from which they came to do Serbian economy, such as goat and cabbage? As the preparation of the law on the formation of a new government agency has delayed the distribution of aid, and you know it and you say it publicly, because everyone is waiting for it in Serbia today, both in Krupanj, and in Obrenovac, and in many other places, everyone is waiting for you to do this, so the work of the office with unprofessional personnel will only slow down the restoration and compensation to citizens who should be the sole goal of the government, I think. That is why, for example, the EPS, and the minister is not there, although the former minister is there, and I know that she is competent to talk about it, I am sorry that she is not in that place, but come on, she has not yet begun drying out the spears that would allow for the regular production of coal and the discontinuation of electricity imports. That's what the prime minister spoke of in public. This law is pending to open a tender under the Public Procurement Act. Do you see what you're doing? How long has it been since the flood? We're waiting for you to form. These people in Obrenovac, in Krupanj and elsewhere are standing, watching, waiting, and these there are your party creditors and others saying to them, "Here, now, just be patient, there is a couple, and Blagojevic is yelling on TV, "I don't give money and bang my hand in the table." He almost became Minister of Finance, apparently. Not that money, he's qualified. The people are waiting for hope. This guy's yelling at people. He's banging at the table. I don't see you defending him, but I don't see you letting him in the media. I guess you realized it wasn't useful. I think the criteria for granting aid, first of all, should be established by law in the Assembly, instead of what the Government is doing under this proposal. Why couldn't the criteria have been established so far, and it's been almost two months since the flood? In the proposed tender procedures, mandatory conditions for participation are demonstrated by the principle of ‘mother me’. The negotiation procedure is approved by the office, not the Public Procurement Administration, i.e. This office of Mark Blagoevich, to be exact. Explain why the newly founded office of Marko Blagojevic is better, more qualified, more skilled in this job than the Public Procurement Administration that you have brought under the law and you have assured us that there will be a 600m-euro savings. After you forgot that, you said you never said 600 million euros, you gentlemen, yellow thieves, make it up. Okay. We usually make it up when we catch you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4309	Mr. Stefanovic, you are very inspired today, but I ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4310	I appreciate you noticing that. The government, according to us, is guilty of amending the laws in 2012, reducing the revenues of "Serbian Water" by a quarter by removing taxis and transferring money to the budget and therefore there was no money to defend. It is the government's fault that she was indelicate and irresponsible, so she put in the list of enterprises that should defend cities under an operational plan to defend against first-row floods, brought by the Ministry of Agriculture, those who have neither electricity nor phones, nor receive a six-month salary. Otherwise, you have such disastrous examples that, say, in Smederjevska Palanca, they waited for a man to come, because no one can push a siren button. You had over two years to change that. If something was obviously wrong, you didn't do it. Don't just tell that old story - what you were doing. What we've been doing, at least we've defined that money, and at least that money has been used to prevent floods. It is the government's fault, after the 2011 law was passed, because it has not passed all the regulations, so neither is the alert system's work regulation, nor has it organised an alarm system. It's the government's fault she didn't organize civil protection, didn't equip, didn't form an alarm unit that only the ministry could form. It is the government's fault that it has unseriously led the emergency situation in Serbia, in an unserious way it has come to her. It's the government's fault, especially, for the illegal conduct in Capco. This is where my colleague used to talk about it. Explain to us the competent ministers, present ministers, how can someone be appointed chief of emergency headquarters in the town of Sapac on the basis of an oral order from the prime minister? What law does that make possible? Where is the paper to General Dikovic, commander of all Serbia's armies? Twenty-eight thousand unbalanced people with no paper defend one, though, a major rash. One, but a big rash. Then he left, and then his colleague Birmancevic had paper and a stamp of suspicious origin, and he knows it, and Mr. Vukic knows it, but he doesn't know who Birmancevic, his messenger. What you were doing in Capca, to invite two and a half thousand Belgrade citizens to defend the Sabbath. They take the bus, and there on the list, how many thousands of people, volunteers standing. He says most of me on the radio -- there was no shovels, there was no song, there was no sacks. Imagine that. It wasn't, so it wasn't likely in the office. There's probably a paper clip in the office. That's the facts. In Obrenovac today, the situation is catastrophic. People still eat pâté. I asked Minister Gasic, present, to continue with the idea, with a plan for Polish cuisine to be engaged. What was that? There are no conditions in the place where the Polish cuisine is opened. Of course there's no such thing as conditions, maltenes, like in war. The army must know that. It is an incredible degree of failure, vehementness and mistakes that existed within the framework of a noble, brave, energetic response by our citizens to a catastrophic situation. In order to avoid it in the future, you must do everything you can to remove it and you must do everything I can to ensure that these questions are adequately, without passion and without politics, answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4311	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4312	First of all, your question is why I represent the report, I think you've made a mistake. So, the flood report, it's the government's proposal and the secretary general precisely because it's not just a minister's report and only one resistor. The floods were a matter of the entire government and all ministers, and therefore neither Minister Ilic nor Minister Mihajlovic, in particular, nor Minister Gasic, but simply the whole government. For that reason, all the ministers here, and the minister of sports, because we all worked during the flood and everyone in this report wrote what we were doing. So we're all here to explain it and explain each of our resources. Next thing you know, I'm like the Minister of Construction, the legislator, and that's what I'm most in charge of. However, here in the report you mentioned that there were no names of the victims. I'll tell you right away why those names of the victims aren't in this report. It is not because any of the ministers or the Serbian government did not want those names to be put in place, but because it is not in accordance with the law in consultation with Commissioner Sabic and it is not possible for them to be put in place. That's the reason and reason we got, and we respected that argument. When you talk about donations, I totally agree with you. There were two things, I'll answer them both. The office as a government service is bound, which is, among other things, prescribed by this law, that any information, not only in money, but also in procedures, must be placed on its website and made public and accessible to everyone. At any moment, on every question, regarding not only this law but the implementation and recovery after the flood, it is required to give that information. So, the office is practically a picture of all the resistors in the government. There's got to be one place where there's got to be a centralization of the amount, or information about money, but also one place where we have to centralize the way we're going to resuscitate. Of course the office won't fully implement it, they'll get the information they need from the vault. Today, when we talk about money, the amount of donations from citizens, foreign governments, etc. amounts to 10 million 125 thousand 872 euros, and one billion 171 million 898 thousand 733 dinars per medium rate. It's got to be on the office site like anything else they do. There's one thing you've done wrong. The office employs a single man. The office does not have permission to hire one, on the contrary, all ministers have an obligation to give at least three to five people from their ministries. The ministry I run gave ten people to the office so they could do all these jobs that you've been telling them. Therefore, there are no new employees in the office. The office has one employee and must not have a larger number, no one more employed since there are enough people in the state administration and in the ministries who can carry out all the procedures in order to know what the work in the state administration looks like, what is needed in order for certain procedures to be done at all. Also, you mentioned it, and I think it's important, the Public Procurement Authority. In general, when you talked about the Public Procurement Act to be absolutely clear, this law only shortens the time but everything remains the way it is in the Public Procurement Act. And we are also as a party, the Serbian Progressive Party, and as a Government, very proud to have the Public Procurement Act because it allowed us to make serious savings. Therefore, the Public Procurement Act and in this law remain with that difference, which is a short period of time. When you mention the Public Procurement Administration, you should know that the Public Procurement Administration is not conducting the procedure. She's just controlling. So she's not the one who's going to conduct the procedure. Also, at one point you said – who is the Office to have money? Or who's the director of the office that he shares the money with? Of course, it's not the director of the office that's going to determine, but based on the rules, the criteria, based on the programme they're going to do, which has already been done by the ministries from which the state programme is being created, and that's exactly where exactly the money is going. Today, the director of the office is not here right now because he is at a donor conference but will definitely be present on Friday, because he is the head of the office representing the government's service. This is where I'd stop. I think Minister Gasic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4313	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The government minister, Mr. Bratislav Gasic, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Mr. Stefanovic, you forgot a moment ago when you listed companies that should come and file your report. Of course, I think we all agree, "The Duke's Water" you forgot them but their territory was the most trouble in these disasters that hit us. Also, you mentioned that the mayor of Belgrade is hiding something from his site, but you forget to tell Serbian citizens that Mr. Sinisa Mali invited citizens the moment the water came, that at night they do not leave their homes because they are putting their lives in danger. It's an important difference from what you say he didn't do right and from how their safety was compromised at that time in those moments. Regarding the Office, my colleague has already explained to you who will be paid and that there are no paid ones, and certainly we did not want to take those experts, since we do not have the opportunity of many public sector employees, that those experts who led you to Jasa Tomic and Kraljeno to include in this part, to help us with these donations. As far as Krupanj is concerned, you mentioned Krupanj, I will be there this afternoon, but some media show vulnerable, damaged houses of individuals with the intention of showing that all ministers should come to every damaged house in both Krupanj and Baja Basta. Otherwise, Serbian citizens must know that for over 20 bulldozers and machines of the Serbian Army have been working there for a month and a half to clear and make roads and slides and everything else. So it's not true that we're not in that area either in Baja's Garden, and in Love, and we've been working everywhere for two months. You're calling for them to come and report to you on what they've been doing, but I think you're the first one to be there, to manipulate the organization of union protests along with the union leaders, and then they'll have someone to explain it to and file the report. I will now give you the legal basis for the engagement of the Chiefs of Staff and the Army of Serbia in Sapac. Serbia's defence strategy provides that the Serbian Army is one of the elements of the defence system structure and that one of its missions is to support civil authorities in countering security threats. Support to civil authorities in countering security threats is realised through the assistance of civil authorities in countering internal threats to security, terrorism, separatism and organised crime, through assistance to civil authorities in the event of natural disasters and technical, technological and other accidents. Serbia's Army General Staff is conducting preparations, use, command and control of units of the Serbian Army in accordance with laws, decisions, plans and orders of the competent state authorities continuously builds up operational and functional capabilities of the units of the Serbian Army to carry out established missions and tasks as successfully as possible. The Defence Act provides in Article 41 that, in the case of natural and other accidents of larger scales in which lives, human and animal health and material goods are at risk on a given territory, units of the Serbian Army may be engaged at the request of the authorities responsible for the protection and rescue of human and material goods in order to assist the population in accordance with specific law. The special law governing this area is the Emergency Act which provides in Article 12 that in conditions where other forces and means of the protection and rescue system are not sufficient to protect and rescue people, material and cultural goods and the environment from the disaster caused by the impact of elementary disasters and other accidents, at the request of the competent ministry, the organisational units responsible for emergency situations of the Ministry of Defence provide for the participation of organisational parts of the Ministry of Defence, Commands, units of the Serbian Army to provide assistance in the protection and rescue, in accordance with the law. When Serb troops are involved in the protection and rescue, they are commanded by their competent elders in accordance with the decisions of the Emergency Staff who manages and co-ordinates protection and rescue. The Serbian Military Act provides in Article 2(2) that the President of the Republic or the Minister of Defence may, at the resolution of the President of the Republic, decide that the Serbian Army may provide assistance to the competent state body, the organisation, the AP authority and the local self-government unit body, at their request for the protection of the lives and safety of people and property, the protection of the environment or other reasons laid down by law, and in Article 19(1) that the Chief of Staff and the Serbian Army of Serbia commanders and commanders of Serbia in accordance with the law and acts of command of the presupposed. Given the above-mentioned regulations and the assessment of the threat given by the Republic Emergency Staff by the Government, on the basis of a session held on 15 May 2014, the government declared an emergency situation in the territory of the entire country, it can be concluded that, in a concrete case, it was not possible to prevent the natural disaster of the larger scales in which lives and the health of humans and animals were threatened, material goods and, without greater involvement of the Serbian Army, it was not possible to prevent the catastrophic consequences. In view of the gravity of the situation and the assessment of the need for greater involvement of the Serbian Army to assist the population, the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army who, at the request of the competent authorities, took the necessary action in accordance with his authority under Article 19(1), took place at the session of the Republic Emergency Staff as a representative of the Serbian Army. Law on military, command and command of the Serbian Army and Article 12(2). The Emergency Law, when units of the Serbian Army are involved in the protection and rescue, is commanded by their competent elders in accordance with the decisions of the Emergency Staff. Given that the member of the Republic Emergency Staff is a defence minister and that the situation was particularly difficult in Sapac, based on the personal assessment and oral authority of the defence minister, and through joint analyses, the necessity to raise management to a higher level has been assessed. Given the high level of danger, a large number of soldiers engaged, the head of the Serbian Army's General Staff decided after going to the scene and getting to know the situation directly on the ground to engage in the work personally, but with the prior introduction and approval of the defence minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4315	I thank you, Mr. Gasic. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, to mention the name directly. Here you go. Replica two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4316	I thank the ministers for mentioning my name and thus allowing me to replicate. So there's a few things. I thank you for detailing the names of the dead. I accept that. As for the legislator, I think you are also aware that the logical question is why is Minister Ilic not the legislator? I keep trying to hear from Minister Ilic who's in charge of emergency situations. Please, Minister, say something. Not now, Minister Mihajlovic explains something from your domain. She's the minister of traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4317	Please, Mr. Stefanovic, speak to me. Don't speak to the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4318	Excuse me, please. I thought I could talk to the government. The office for the reconstruction of Mr. Blagojevic, you say, employs a man. You know that this office has been assigned seven million dinars in total, half for half-price contracts. Who? Who gets seven million if they hire one man? The office is designed to decide on spending money, it decides on everything, and the Public Procurement Administration is a control body. But in this case, no. In this case, Mr. Blagojevic will decide everything. That's what I'm asking you, why is that even happening? Why do you have to do that when you yourself say that, say, you from your ministry have some people doing these professional jobs? What do you need this office for? So why are you giving so much power to decide one man and making a new office, while all of Serbia is waiting for you to do anything about the flood? Why didn't anyone call Chief of Staff for the Vojvodina emergency situation at headquarters meetings? Why? Why haven't you tried to make a meeting with the Prime Minister for one moment? Why don't you ask Minister Ilic for Yasa Tomic, he was in charge of it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4319	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has a minister in the government, Master Velimirlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4320	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since I've been called, I'm going to answer a few questions. It is true that we were doing the reconstruction of Jaša Tomić, the border of Bogdanja, the Valjev area, the bathing area and some more than 1000 and some houses we built in a period that was something similar to this one, but in some milder form because it was less intense. In Jasa Tomic, there was never a single offence, all houses were made as soon as possible, handed over, 285 euros per square, key in hand. I don't see that there have been any abuses, nothing, and there's been done the most correct, cleanest work. Of course, they controlled certain international institutions that gave donations, loans and all were satisfied with both the work performed and the way it was handled. We had then the goal of defending Banat, defending Zrenjanin, defending gas storage, underground gas storage, and we did it with a large number of machines and an extraordinary technique that was then brought to the scene. We had a difficult time, you know well that the area of the Obrenovac was bombed, trans-stations, portable systems during the war. You know that there have been damages that were extremely large, and on the embankments and everything, and the priority has been to rebuild the entire energy transmission system, but for years there has been nothing to do with the embankments because there has been no funds, and everyone knows it in Serbia that this job has been neglected for years, not in one government, in the last five, six, seven governments. Of course, we were struck by what hit us, and the consequences are who they are. I'm responsible for telling you here that we've all been working together in the government, and it's logical, and now it doesn't matter who's going to be the promoter, who's going to work. The deal is for the Deputy Prime Minister to be a motionary. Why? Because most of the technique, possibilities, construction directorship, construction, roads, everything is in that ministry and logically, it can run the greatest potential to do it at this point. It's not true that nothing has been done these days, while waiting for the law to come to light. Here's one of the projects here I have dozens, Krupanj, Love, all in detail done. Reports and how to resuscitate and how much it costs and how rivers line up and how to regulate it all all have been done by our most measured institutions. I thank all of Serbia's engineers, 26,500 of them sent a memo and all worked on projects voluntarily and none of them charged a single dinar. They've done all these jobs very well. Here it's all worked out in detail, only we now have to, of course, secure the funds and start doing it. He can't do it all at once. Some jobs are already done. You know very well that it was a problem for the raspberries to get roads and it was done. Any village can get to the freezer, get close, and we've all been working on it. There's been a lot of donations. I'm glad, no one mentioned, maybe the government doesn't know that one of the owners of one of our companies that he bought in London donated 50% to the Great Majdan and already the works of the minority carried out by the project we did, the audit was completed. He was a 50% donor, donated it himself, paid for everything, performers, surveillance and everything else. I want to thank him this time, and he said – you from the government finish the rest. So now we need to be both complex and unique and not split up here into opposition and position, that all of these projects are in order as much as possible. Some places have experienced this, but many will live. I recently visited Leskovac. There was built an entire settlement on the banks of the river, that famous Bobište that has been made for years. The only solution there is to move the river now, because there's nothing you can do about it from home. They submitted the project and requested government approval to dislocate the entire river from the settlement, because it is impossible to tame it when it entered, as it is, in the village itself. The problem is all over Serbia. We now have to work on these projects to make everyone real, to do as much as we can and to protect many cities that are not affected now, but surely in some of the following situations they will be affected and do great damage. So it's neither the place nor the time to argue here now, what, how. We invite all engineers, all experts and all people of good faith who have solutions that can be involved, to help. This is a joint job. Now in power one, tomorrow the other, the day after the third, the problem remains, the problem of the river streams, the problem of the lush waters is 50 years. We're working on the system now, Maric knows it well, anti-urban protection. We're using a 60-year-old system that's completely outdone. We applied it when we had overflights 10 times less over Serbia. Now, Mrs. Mihajlovic knows, we had 2500 flights a day. Our anti-urban protection doesn't have a time when it can work and we have to go to new systems, we have to go to new fire protection systems, we all have to work together. We cannot isolate ourselves from Europe and say – we will not participate. Believe that there are huge damages in Serbia and from the city and from the fires and from the floods and from all of this, and of course from the earthquakes. The first thing we need to do is to list the cadastrian plots and deliver them to local administrations where there are slides. Do you gentlemen believe that there are 2350 active rinks in Belgrade, that there is the largest rink in Europe, Duboka, that there is a river Sava narrowed to 180 meters and on average is 400 meters, that the thickness of the asphalt that has been tarnished for years, because the country has been skating and that for 20 years no one has done anything to resolve this project that has been done and revised? Someone's got to save him. What political option? It doesn't matter. But that's Serbia's problem. 'Cause, God forbid the mind slides are gonna make a lake to Sisko. Therefore, I ask you to consider this a serious problem and to all go to work and local authorities and government and all ministers. It is logical that, in such a major elemental accident, this is all being led by the prime minister, because it was logical to expect it, because the damage was so great, the consequences were extremely great, so it is logical that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia stood at the head of the staff and gave responsibility to the ministers to assist him in the work. Thank you, and once again, please, let's not do what's happened now. There's going to be a major accident, but to be as little damage as possible, but in order to reduce that, we have to invest an extremely large amount and we all work together on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4321	I thank you, Mr. Ilic. The word has an authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party, deputy head of the parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what the Government of the Republic of Serbia was doing during the May 2014 flood and what the departments in charge were doing, it says in a report in which the government submitted it. What SNS knows and what all Serbian citizens know is that the DS in the King stole during the earthquake and that the DS directed the largest possible abuse of financial resources collected for the restoration of the city of Kings in the catastrophic earthquake, or earthquake in 2010. Then those who stole in the most open way Serbian citizens today ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia who is responsible for the floods and then only because the head of the parliamentary group does not say, infected with pathological hatred for SNS -- the flood is Alexander Vukic's fault. Since this exceeds my legal knowledge and education, and since it is within the scope of some other scientific disciplines, I will no longer do so, I will say first of all something about the Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I want to commend on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a whole, all members of the military and police, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia known and unknown who were literally overnight, and that they did not want to become heroes and heroes because they defended their neighbors and their fellow citizens from the unremembered elemental disaster that happened to us. What I also want to point out is that the government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted in record, short time, after only two months, practically two months since the suspension of the emergency situation a bill on the removal of floods in the Republic of Serbia, which has never happened in Serbia's past political history. So this is a law that will allow for the shortest possible time period of time to remove the harmful consequences caused by the May 2014 floods, when it comes to housing, and when it comes to road infrastructure, electricity facilities and all other vital facilities necessary for the normal functioning of citizens and the economy of the Republic of Serbia. The advantage of this law is that it has in some way centralised the reconstruction of the Republic of Serbia through the Office for Reconstruction and Assistance of Flooded Areas, which is not an agency, as the head of the parliamentary group pointed out, but is the government's service. This office plays a key role in the collection of financial assistance, distribution and financial assistance, and ultimately, in that final realization, which is the construction of housing facilities and is the restoration of road, rail, electricity and other infrastructure that was destroyed or severely damaged in the floods in 2014. Of course, I will not look back on the insinuations that have been given here at the expense of the Director of the Office for Reconstruction and Aid of Flooded Areas, I will not look back on all those difficult words and insults that have been made at the expense of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's obvious that this is about the continuation of a negative and pathological campaign that has been under way since the time of the emergency when the public in Serbia is systematically deluded by individuals and groups of whom have been politically motivated, whether in Obrenovac or I don't know where the great human victims appear, and the government is hiding it, how the rash broke there or how some dam broke or how some kind of haemarium happened. Time has shown that none of this is true, but all these insinuations were meant to cause panic among Serbian citizens. Of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia reacted to this statement and by providing timely true information to the citizens of Serbia, but some did not have enough, so they continued the media hack through individuals from the OSCE mission in the Republic of Serbia, through certain independent journalists, both alleged dictator and villain Aleksandar Vucic, who wants to introduce a dictatorship in the Republic of Serbia asphyxiated the freedom of the media in the Republic of Serbia. As you can see, this freedom of the media is being choked in such a way that you don't have any television today, including a public media service from which literally people who speak the hardest possible words at the expense of the Prime Minister, at the expense of individual ministers. None of these people lack anything, they lack head hair, and they keep saying that dictatorships are being conducted in Serbia, that there is no freedom of public words, that journalists are being threatened, etc. With this practice, as you can see, it continues today. This law, in a purely legal sense, represents only one part, so-called. a special law, i.e. lex specialis, because it does not suspend in general, as someone has said the validity of the Public Procurement Act, it does not suspend in general the validity of the Expropriation Act, it only partially and to the most necessary extent possible provides for derogations from certain provisions of the Public Procurement Act, the Expropriation Act and some other laws, but only for one reason because, in an emergency situation and because of an emergency situation, you simply have to take extraordinary measures. It is not possible to remove the consequences of the emergency situation by applying the emergency measures normally applied by law. We have a situation that half of Serbia has been flooded, that many people have lost their homes, that many roads have been destroyed. Today, in certain parts of the Republic of Serbia in municipalities such as Obrenovac, Krupanj, Mali Zvornik, etc., people still have difficulty living. Keeping in mind both the Prime Minister and the Government's promise that by autumn all the people who have lost their homes will be restored to their homes or will be raised new ones. There is simply no other way and there is no alternative to doing all of this without the adoption of one such law, I repeat once again, which is partly deviating from the regime provided for by the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Expropriation and other laws, in order to allow the normalisation of life in Serbia. In doing so, there are no abuses, no violations of citizens' rights. No one will be threatened by this law. This is the law that is in the best interest of all those who have lost their homes, all those whose lives are difficult because their journey has been destroyed or because their railway has been cut off somewhere, because this is a law that practically allows for us to normalise life in Serbia for the next two to three months. Whoever openly says that it is against this law would do well to say – and what is the alternative? Except to say that Marko Blagojevic is a criminal, that Alexander Wolf is a dictator or that someone is, I don't know. So, what's an alternative to this law? There's no alternative. The alternative is to sit with our hands cut, to criticise, to say the most difficult possible words at the expense of the Prime Minister and the Government in general, and then, when September, October, November or December, we say, you know, we didn't make houses because some MPs think that it's not all transparent about public procurement, but it doesn't matter. We in the National Assembly have freely said that the government is suffocating freedom of the media, that the government is clouding something through Mark Blagojevic and will allegedly improve the life situation of Serbian citizens. Of course not. As for the report on the elemental disaster, the flood that hit the Republic of Serbia and the measures taken to save the population and defend the vulnerable places from the floods, I want to point out, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because of all those political geniuses who have since May to this day expressed the most serious possible insults and constantly calling out when will the government submit a report, when will the government do this? Why hasn't the government already built thousands of houses in Obrenovac or 5,000 houses in Krupanj and Mali Zvornik? To remind these political geniuses that this is the first time in Serbia's modern political history that the government of the Republic of Serbia dated 2 July 2014, and to remind you, the emergency situation is in most parts of the Republic of Serbia, except in those two cities and 17 municipalities abolished on 23 May. So, on July 2, 2014, the government submitted a very comprehensive and detailed report on what the government was doing, as each individual ministry did and each individual public enterprise in removing the effects of the floods that hit Serbia in mid-May this year. I am now asking those who criticise the government of the Republic of Serbia, why, while they were in power, they did not submit similar reports, there is no report, and I will tell you what has happened to Serbia since 1999. So, you don't have a single report, what did the governments of the Republic of Serbia then do, so that the adverse consequences, any elemental disasters, were they floods, the city, the ice, the slides, removed? You don't. There is only one act, and that is the Act on Confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the area of humanitarian response in emergency situations, the prevention of elemental disasters and the techno-hazards and the removal of their consequences from November 2010, but you have no report from the Government, such as this, which has been given literally chronologically by days, what the ministry was doing that day and in which part of the Republic of Serbia. So you don't have a report like that. But that's why you have the constant callings of those who have systematically destroyed this country since 2000, who have done everything they've ever done, to paralyze the defence system of the Republic of Serbia in situations where we have floods, slides, etc. And those who have been asking for a report since May of the month, and when they get the report, they say yes, but the report doesn't say this, and we think it should write or write something, and that's not true, etc. So now I'm going to tell you what's been going on in the Republic of Serbia since 1999, which all governments have changed, so I'm going to ask the representatives of today's opposition, who until two years ago were in power and were the masters of life and death in Serbia, what they've done about submitting similar reports. So, in July 1999, you had floods on the banks of the major tributaries of the Great Morava. I'm just going to go over this chronologically. In March and April 2000, as a result of the sudden melting of snow on the slopes of Karpat, you had large waters on Tisa and Tamis. In June 2001, you had floods in the rivers Jadar, Stir, the Real River, when the municipalities of Loznica, Ljubovija, Krupanj, Mali Zvornik, Sabac were flooded. Furthermore, in June 2002, you had floods in the river Mlava, and in April 2005, there was an spill of a large amount of water in Tamis. In May 2005, you had the spill of large rivers in southern Morava, so in March and April 2006, you had a large water supply of Danube across Serbia that then exceeded the historic maximum. In 2006, you had floods in Apatino, Sombor, Bogojev, Zrenjanin, Beocino, Senti, so you had floods in November 2007 and floods in November 2009. In addition to the floods, in 2010, you had an earthquake in the Kingdom, where you openly stole the people of Serbia, so in 2011, you had the serious consequences of the city in Zlatibor, so in 2012, you had severe consequences due to the freezing winter in Sjenica, so in 2012, you had droughts, etc. and no Democrats are found to report to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what they have done to improve these serious consequences of all these elementary disasters. You don't have a single report. You have nicknames, insults, and you have something that people say is called – salting minds. These are people who have done nothing less or less, who have sat behind their computers on Facebook, Twitter, saying that the advances are liars and frauds, that Aleksandar Vukic is a dictator, a villain, burning corpses who know where, people who have worked to help Serbian citizens in the most direct possible way, and here from the representatives of today's opposition are being placed on the pillar of shame. What Mr. Gasic, the defence minister, noticed, is quite true. So, I'm surprised the DS forgot that there's a little island on which they're still in power, and it's called the AP Vojvodina. You know, when Belgrade was conquered in the first Serbian uprising, then the odors fled to Ada Kale. These yellow breaths have fled to Novi Sad and the AP Vojvodina and now from that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4323	Please, Mr. Martinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4324	And now from that Ada Kale they call the government of the Republic of Serbia, that she did nothing. Now, Mr. Democrats, I have a few questions for you. You who are the great advocates of the rights of workers, who suddenly became Marxists who advocated the abolition of capitalism, for the world revolution, in 2014 when Serbia was struck by the flood, here's what they were doing from the Vojvodina Development Fund, divided 35m euros for subsidies to private enterprises. Among other things... (National MP, Borislav Stefanovic from the post: What does this have to do with the subject? This is all a theme, you'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4325	Please, Mr. Martinovic, address me as chairman and return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4326	Now, I'm going to tell you, Mr. Becic why this is a theme, if they weren't stealing that much money, there'd be more money to rebuild the flooded areas, and that's why I'm saying this. In this way, the technoexport company, looks at the wonders of Indjia, and from Indjia is the one who was head of the circuit headquarters for emergency situations. In 2014, 661.303,65 euros were given to the company, by the Vojvodina Development Fund, and the money was not returned, but what happened. The company gave the Vojvodina Stock Reserve Directorate, instead of returning money to the Vojvodina Development Fund, 21,280 single-part siphons, at a price of 38,418 euros and 21,280 other two-part siphons, for schools in Vojvodina. This means about one siphon per eight students, or 90 siphons per primary and secondary school, in Vojvodina. The rest of the 477.806-euro debt, it was also returned in nature, and this is because the District government has decided to take good care of the Alliance of Pensioners of Vojvodina, so-called. ‘sanitary packages’ containing two elastic siphons and 22.32 metres of intestines, a total length of 667.8 km, a total of 29.921 packages. Now, that's not all. In their Ada Kale, you also have a circuit fund called the co-financing of new technologies in the AP Vojvodina, so the fund concluded a total of 108 contracts, and according to these 108 contracts, the AP Vojvodina acquired 249,487 toothbrushes and 90,000 packings of hand gel. How? By giving the company Dentosan Trade from Novi Sad 151,612 euros in subsidies for the introduction of new technology. Of course, the money was not returned, but returned in nature again by delivering 142.920...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4327	Time. I thank Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4328	Here I am finishing up, so small toothbrushes with the value of the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development estimated at all 74,322 euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4329	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4330	... and another 106,560 big toothbrush at a total price of 59,673 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4331	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4332	Here I go, Mr. Becic. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Why can he still talk? I don't know why you're so nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4333	Please finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4334	They're so nervous, I don't know what's wrong with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4335	He'll get the word, finish the sentence, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4336	When you ask what the government of RS has done and why has it not done more, the SNS asks them - when will you stop stealing the citizens of Vojvodina and when will you stop destroying the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4337	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Which member, please quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4338	Your Honor, of course I believe you'll count these 15 seconds as far as I haven't been able to speak. Dear Mr. Chairman, a member of the 108th Rules of Procedure has been injured. The previous speaker who spoke for more than 20 minutes was an insult to MPs and political parties in this assembly, and you did not warn him. Yesterday we had a situation, Mr. Babic, you contacted the Assembly, when Goran Knezevic was mentioned and then we found that this was not a courtroom and that it could not be the way Mr. Martinovic spoke about anyone in this assembly today, and Mr. Martinovic talked about how it was stolen, how it was stolen in the King. What trial proved that anyone stole from the King, Mr. Martinovic? If there are thieves in this congregation and we're going to share labels with each other, then I'm going to say you're a wine-making thief in this assembly. You have five salaries, 400,000 dinars from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and you are a thief. I don't allow you to call me a thief.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4339	Please don't talk, I'll shut you down. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Mr Martinovic said four or five times that someone here is stealing. ) The word has a National MP Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go. (Marco Djurisic, from the site: On what basis did you take my word? ( b) By insulting the dignity of the National Assembly. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: I insult dignity when I say someone steals? You insult dignity. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: Five times to say someone steals, and he doesn't insult? You don't have the same archaic against all MPs. He was talking about the opposition's MPs stealing. Take a stenogram if you haven't listened. ) Please, he spoke of representatives of political parties. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: I guess we all have the same rights here... So, yesterday we said, this isn't a courtroom, and today we can talk about people who have nothing to do... I give you a warning. (Marko Djurisic, from the post:And you, Mr. Granny, are clapping here. Mr. Djurishich, I give you a warning. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: It is a dictatorship, Mr Martinovic, it is a dictatorship. ) The word has a National MP Borislav Stefanovic, a replica of two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4340	I think that, now emotions aside, Mr. Chairman, I think you had to interrupt Dr. Martinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4341	Mr. Stefanovic, then I had to interrupt you because you were making similar accusations on this side and therefore, please, you have no right to talk about it. Here's a two-minute line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4342	Just give me my time, please. So, the fact is that the MP made the most disgusting insults to the entire political party, accusing, quoting – the Democratic Party is stealing. So you had to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4343	Please, you must make arrangements for any parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4344	All right. No one on this side has ever said a word of hatred against Alexander Vukic, no one here has said anything like an insult...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4345	You've been saying that for days, Mr. Stefanovic. Please finish your line, you've replicated Mr. Martinovic's exposure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4346	Please, what have we been saying for days? Where did you hear someone insulted Mr. Wolf or SNS because we're asking questions that are legitimate? Are you listening to your session? A man can't behave like that in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4347	Time, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4348	If anyone in this assembly says this is a replica, I'm sorry, if anyone in this assembly says that the Democrats went to Ada as a breather, and it's clear what happened to the breathers on Ada. They were killed there, and the man says that, and you keep quiet. You shut up, let it go. A man who brings up such untruth, insults. The restoration of kings led by a man named Milan Markovic, who wrote this law to you now, ask Mr. Vukic who you spit on here? Are you aware of that? That man's...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4349	You've wasted your time. Ambassador Stefanovic, don't speak directly, please yell at me, tell me what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4350	It's not true, I'm back in time, he didn't give me the chairman to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4351	Yeah, it's been 14 seconds. He took that away from you. Here is Ambassador Veselinović, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4352	The Honorable Chairman, I believe he is a injured member of 109. The Rules of Procedure, that the chairman before you has violated Article 109. The Rules of Procedure, because he warned Mr Đurisic, only because Mr Đurisic asked that his dignity be restored to this National Assembly. Yesterday and today it was said about genocide, that someone committed genocide...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4353	Please, MP, today is the new session. We're not going back to what happened yesterday. The breach of the Rules of Procedure applies to this session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4354	I'm saying that Mr. Djurisic tried to restore dignity to the National Assembly and I'm trying to explain why I consider this member injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4355	Just don't talk about yesterday's session, please, and those terms. There were more of them today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4356	So, organized criminal enterprise, and today...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4357	Ambassador, please report to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4358	Today it is spoken of and is tried by people, although the National Assembly does not represent a branch of the judicial authority but rather a branch of the legislative authority, where laws are passed, and it is not like it used to be under the pear, where people have adopted rules and tried, to bring punishments. This isn't such an institution. This is where laws are passed, don't judge people. If Mr. Djurisic has been very justified in asking for his dignity to be returned to the Assembly and to return the role he has played and if for this reason he has received a warning, I consider the chairman to have injured the Rules of Procedure. I consider the day this way of leading this assembly this turns into anarchy
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4359	Thank you, MP. I cannot talk about whether the previous chairman has injured the Rules of Procedure, but I can only appeal to all MPs in this House that, as far as Parliament's dignity is concerned, it cannot only be chaired to take care of it. Parliament's dignity must be taken into account by all, all 250 MPs. I ask you to make an effort, to make a list of words that can be used, that can't be used. I think we've gone a little far in censorship with each other what can be used and what can't be used. That's what I'm saying in general. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. I thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4360	Thank you, Madam President. Article 27, 107 and 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4361	He can't do Article 108, he's been used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4362	Article 107. I think it's humiliating the dignity of the National Assembly if some MP is limited by expression. I think it's dictatorship to forbid another MP to speak. I think it's a relapse of time until 2012. I think it's dictatorship to ban someone from talking about irregularities in our society. Do you have any pain in your syphons? Do you suffer from maladministration in the allocation of funds to the AP-development Fund? Do you expect us to keep quiet about it? No, we don't want to keep quiet. We don't want to keep quiet when pensioners are given syphons instead of help. We don't want to keep quiet when the siphons are given instead of building dams and defending against floods. We will not be silent if you expect us to attack Marko Blagojevic, a businessman at the Office for Reconstruction, and you did not mind Dragan Djilas, a businessman at the place of mayor of Belgrade. Did that suit you then? The dictatorship is that you're asking us to keep quiet because it's a small opposition. The dictatorship is what is said -- every criticism gets some Zoran Babic, so he says there I don't know what. The dictatorship is that you expect us to not respond to your statements about disgusting lies. It's a dictatorship, gentlemen. No one here has ever accused anyone. This will be done by the judicial authorities of this country. It's a pleasure that you don't say that because you have nothing to say, because SNS and SNS individuals are responsible for state money, public property.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4363	Thank you. As I notice that there are several raised hands for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is my right to set a break of an hour to calm down passion and make order in conducting the session. Thank you. We'll continue at 1400 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4364	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's continue our work. Since no more authorised representatives have been reported, we are moving on to the order of MPs who have registered on the list. The first on the list is MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4365	Thank you. I think it's a good thing that this break is given, because if I were a citizen of Obrenovac, who is watching this transfer or citizens from other flooded areas and areas threatened by rinks, I would say that the debate that has been conducted in the last half hour is a great irresponsibility towards those citizens who are expecting from the law that we're going to adopt, the decisions we're going to make, that winter is welcome in their homes, safe and secure, not to look at the parties and their representatives buried in party trenches, as they accuse each other of who is guilty of the floods, who has taken what he has done, who has not taken and that they are politically bickering. I think there are days in the National Assembly when we should all be MPs, not representatives of our parties, and that's exactly what today is. That is why I will try to do more from the aspect of this, and supported by a professional analysis, I point out which are the main reasons that led to the flood, with an absolute assessment that, for the first time, one government is delivering a relevant, serious and comprehensive report after such an elemental accident. We've had similar floods before, similar natural disasters, but never one this serious report. On the other hand, what we have to do as a society from the Republic of Serbia, through those who own the waters, means, "Serbia", "The Vojvodina", "Belgrade", and units of local self-government, to make sure that more natural disasters do not happen to us in this way, with our assessment, and on the basis of expert estimates that Serbia will continue to face this kind of problem. However, there will probably never be another Obrenovac that happened now, but Obrenovac happened in a scenario similar to that of 33 years ago, 1981, when he was flooded, because he is in a low area and surrounded by three rivers that have their problems in defending against the floods. In doing so, it is absolutely necessary to say that we are not the Netherlands, that we do not have such a elaborate flood defence system, that we are not Germany, that we are neither England, that we live in Serbia and that we live with our problems and that the flood defence system, which is not comprehensive and that it is built in different periods with different materials, with different technologies, has shown its shortcomings and that much needs to be done to defend against floods in first-row waterways, and that surely the state, or local self-government, will now not be able to invest in lower-order water streams, second and third, in the so-called waterways. The streaming rivers, where they occur in the great rainfalls of a very large stream, take a short while, and cause enormous damage. What Mrs. Mihajlovic said and what Mr. Velimir suggested, we should bring one projection for the future, but for that we will need 19 billion dinars by 2019, which is a large sum of money for our country. Therefore, an analysis should be made of the possibilities to advance the forecast and announcement of floods, the security of built flood defence facilities, how water is managed in Serbia, whether water companies are well-organised, how water infrastructure maintenance and flood defence is financed. The May floods brought down numerous records at multiple locations in Serbia. In some places in Serbia, the amount of water exceeded one-third of total annual rainfall, with 18% of Serbia's territory threatened by floods, especially the Danube coast, Tisa, Sava, Morava, Drina, Kolubara, Timoka. There is also potential danger in well built systems. We have about 99 significant flood areas in Serbia. What is the reason why flood protection systems are canceling? First of all, because of the mistakes in the design, construction and maintenance of the protection systems, then, because of the mistakes of our citizens that break down the dikes, build houses on the embankments and canals, etc. Therefore, the degree of flood protection should be defined by state plans. What are our guidelines for the future? Completing, upgrading, reconstruction and regular maintenance of a flood protection system, flood wave reduction and local protection measures, regardless of the fact that the municipalities, as well as our own state, are in grave condition. I mentioned, however, that all of what we need to do will depend, first of all, on money, on the economic power of the country, and then, by doing so, we only get to one political message, that we need to do everything as soon as possible to become a normal, orderly state, to clear up with crime and corruption, to hire as many people as possible, to get as much money away from flood prevention as possible, and not to forget that, let's say, Big Morava almost every year, flood waves are coming in, but they're moving to agricultural land to save cities, settlements, industrial buildings and what's more important than agricultural land, which is also our great treasure. This requires reconstructions of the defense lines, for example, on the right bank of Sava. Then, the Keisha walls and embankments in Belgrade's central zone do not provide an adequate protection system. Nobody said that. The worse scenario can come back. It would be worse if the wave hadn't been reduced after the embankment, water spills on BiH and Croatia's territory. If that hadn't happened, we'd only have a special disaster here. A complete review of the flood protection concept in the Kolubara Basin is required. For example, in the 2010 floods, weak spots were observed on Drina and Lima. The security system in co-operation with BiH should also be reviewed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4366	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4367	I'm done. The Serbian Renewal Movement absolutely feels the need to thank the citizens of Serbia, especially young people who have shown great solidarity and responsibility. What I expect from the MPs is that in the future we are talking about what is the subject, that even today because of the people at risk, we are not dealing with politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4368	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4369	Thank you. This much damage and so many failures is hard to explain in five minutes, but I'll try. First, a report of floods that have 300 and some pages of everything and everything, one cabbager who is a combination of various statements and various reports, two of which deserve attention. Everyone else can get into that category that makes sandwiches, drives yogurt and muffins, but two reports are very important. It's a report from the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute on 50 and some pages from which it's clear that there's enough time for them to announce from 9, over 12, 13 and 14 May what's coming. Those were red announcements. So every competent authority in this country had to know what was going on, seven days earlier, five days earlier, three days earlier. Nothing was done in Obrenovac. These announcements helped keep Shabac dry, to keep Sremska Mitrovica safe, but that didn't happen in Obrenovac. My question – why? The answer to this question is the next report, in turn, behind the Hydrometeorological Institute's report is the "Serbijavoda" on page eight. The "Serbians" report on eight pages of work which is their only task, which is to land water streams and prevent all sorts of bad things, of which floods are the worst possible. In that report, you'll see why the Defense Officer wasn't defended. In one sentence, it is noted that the floods occurred in the last 25, 26 years and were large in 2006 and were the largest in 2014. It's on primary school level. There is no one here who could give us an answer to these questions, because the minister and vice-president of the government are not in charge of it, and Minister Ilic is formally in charge of the area, but apparently the ministry has not started working for these four or five months. What the expert public is saying and the general public, is that Obrenovac was flooded because someone was playing with a dole that was supposed to protect Obrenovac from the Tamnava, that with explosives or otherwise destroyed that dol and that the water had entered into the obstetric ata, completely without any plan to defend against the floods, and that's the fault why Obrenovac went the way it went. Serbia's electricity distribution, the minister says 119m euros is damage. Of course, the damage could have been charged by insurance companies that there was no big game about EPS insurance. Last December, a tender for insurance was launched, was annulled by the director's decision, making the bidders benefit from an EPS amounting to over nine million dinars, and the 120m euros could have been charged. Finally, why do we need a flood law? Why do we need the law when all this is already defined in some other law, unless there's some bad intention? That it would be an incentive for all the damage to be resolved quickly is complete, as one Serbian politician would say – more nonsense in the explanation I couldn't hear so far. It's been two months since the flood, and nothing's been done. The office was founded seven days ago. Today we're legalizing it, and it's already won from the budget reserve nine million dinars for workers' salaries and for labour contracts. On the fourth of July, that decision was made in the government, and I wonder, who are the money coming to, if we said there was only one employee? I hope Marco Blagojevic doesn't have a half a million-dollar salary. I'm sure he won't. So I think a lot of bad things have been done. This isn't a political court. Some problems should be raised in parliament, some questions, but Serbia deserves answers for who is responsible, and thank them. They are police officers, soldiers, firefighters and it is a Twitter community of Serbia that has done more than all the ministers in this Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4370	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected my predecessor to say something about agricultural damage, given our professional common orientation. We've got two papers ahead of us. One is the law, and the other is the report. I will try to be objective, and the government should be grateful, not only for the praises, but also for the advice and criticism, and even for those criticisms that are not well-intentioned and not based. At first, I have to explain to my colleague, gathered by profession, to the farmer that there is a big difference between Sremska Mitrovica and Capca, Sava and Danube, because they are not as threatened by streams as is the case with Kolubara, Tamnava and so on. I think I'm qualified enough, since I don't think there are any MPs in this assembly who haven't had that much damage in this flood, and I've had a flood on the leased agricultural land and it's not treated like a flood, because there's been a huge water supply of Sava and groundwater that's gone into the fields and caused damage. It doesn't even appear to be a flood, nor do I have the right to make up for it. I don't think there's any MP in the immediate family who's had a victim, fortunately, he's gone, except me. I think I'm fully qualified, I could even be sharper than some other MPs on this subject, but apparently those who have passed, fortunately, with less damage are far more critical than myself. I'll remind you that the government was formed on 16 April. If it were one of the previous governments, you'd just have time to draw up a report like this from 320 pages. I don't think those previous governments in two months would be safe, not only to defend themselves against the floods, but they wouldn't have been able to type up and sort out a report they call a courser, they wouldn't have been able to sort out that kind of report, they wouldn't have written it. As we have heard earlier, there have been no reports of any kind of accident that occurred during a previous government, or during a previous government. On the Agriculture Committee, we discussed this 320-page report. No matter how large he is, he has some of his shortcomings, so I'm going to start with the environment that's only covered with half the page. So, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment in its environmental report wrote a report on half the page. With that in mind, I have to ask, since it's been said that the health deposit of Deep is in some crisis, or that it's prone to skating, is that correct, since the former regime has set aside about 25 million euros for it? If it's true there's a rink out there, then we have a problem with wasteful money. What about the other sanitary dumps? Does this flood have certain damage, given that the environment is very important? Also, we had a problem with a report that was of a veterinary nature. Some of our figures didn't agree, but we haven't seen a more comprehensive report so far. Big water's a big trouble. So it can also be of great benefit. It depends on how people take it and how they prepare for it. No government, especially since 16 April, and no government that was before 16 April, and no governments that have ruled since 2000 bear the exclusive responsibility for the accidents that have been happening to us. Floods and droughts cannot be avoided, but their consequences can be reduced if you prepare yourself in time and permanently for this type of accident, provide and act preventively. If you wait for them to happen to you, which is done to you for 30, 40 years, then when they happen to you, they do far more damage than they would have done in time. Two centuries ago, with shafts, shovels, hooks and carts, Austria pretty much took out the water streams in Vojvodina. So, we who live in Vojvodina know that, as we know, a considerable number of canal networks, i.e. the length of the channel network in kilometers, especially those secondary ones, next to the fields, are buried. The blame is few for former construction ministries that did not prescribe that each of their plots is obliged to dig up a bar, a ditch, that in a certain way water is removed from the plots and that the future effects of the floods are reduced in such a way. If the water streams, which are more derelict today than at that time, were able to be fixed by a channel network in Vojvodina, which was to a large extent even a swamp, what is it today in the general era of unemployment, where our people are unemployed, where construction firms are jobless, especially those dealing with low-building, what did we need to do with all that little money, and as far as I know, the former regime is even some money and returned, for some we don't know exactly where it's headed from the World Bank, what did we need to do with some money, with these unemployed people and unemployed machines, take care of these water streams so that the government formed on 16 April wouldn't be confronted with the consequences of the elemental accident? If we don't take care of the floods in time, if we don't resuscitate, if we don't arrange the waterways in time, clean the sewer network, then the consequences are inevitable, and in such situations we can go from God to asking God to resign, then after God, from the government of 16 April, then we can resign from the government that was until 16 April, and then we can ask for the resignation of all ministers who ruled until 2012. If you can't use water, then water can often use those who can't use water. Water and fire are big troubles, but in my opinion, water is even bigger, because water can put out fire, and vice versa, it's a little harder. As far as these reports are concerned, I'm going to try a little bit around energy, given that the Minister used to be Minister of Energy, if I may, I'm entitled to share advice, I'd like to take the advice to import electricity immediately, to transfer it to the Government, to import electricity immediately, while the price is 40 euros, and to share coal from Kolubara to the people, or users who use it for heating, and I think the needs are 500 to 800 thousand tonnes. In my view, it is better to import electricity now that the price of 40 euros is megawatt hour, if I have well remembered that unit, because, if you do not, it is to expect that in late October or November all those who did not have coal and who did not provide it in summer, will move to electricity heating, which will lead us to import electricity in an increased amount in winter, when the price is 60 to 80 euros per megawatt hour. So it's better to introduce it now, when it's cheaper, and divide the people's coal, because apart from saving some money on the same amount of electricity, we're going to stop you from going over to the power grid and overloading the system. So, we can do what the waist says to import as much electricity as we want, but we can't transport it to the consumer and there can be serious troubles. That would be the kind of advice I gave at the beginning, when the opposition had not already taken advantage of the opportunity to share such a piece of advice. The Minister of Agriculture is not here, but I would suggest that the distribution of seeds, fuel, etc. is certainly done to farmers but that the crop is not renewed, given that the early sowing sometimes fails, and the late sowing almost always does. Since I'm dealing with agriculture, it's almost impossible to do any kind of agritechnical deadline right now, but I advise those who have suffered damage from the flood, which have been marked, unlike me, that the seed is assigned, unless it has passed its duration, that these re-promaterials, fertilisers, seeds and fuel be distributed and allocated for the next season, because now you can optimally sow only the oiled tail. As far as the money for disposal is concerned, he spoke about it and I will fully agree with him, regardless of what the criticism comes from the opposition, which was once the government and also did not control whether the money that was intended for disposal and irrigation was used for that purpose, there are strong indications that Mr Dinkic had in a certain way adopted this money and put it in general as a general budget item, therefore, that it was not separate in a special account and that he often did not come to the user. You should also take care of the rashes. I appreciate the opposition's criticism, but they don't want to say that it's where the government was, I'm going to set an example for the Obrenovac, that the dikes haven't been maintained for years, that we have a situation that's been made the way. So, those of us who live in Vojvodina, who used to be arranged for the embankment, we know that there are certain ramps there, that no traffic can be done by the embankment, and here simply the rash was cut to the right height, to make the widest possible route, and of course that traffic has damaged such a type of embankment and that no single dinar has been invested in these dikes for years. Let's also say that millions of sums were set aside to protect the oak oaks of the pond, five or six oaks located near the ridge, so the guards who kept those oaks at Jozić's hut came by car, driving by the embankment that was cut, by which the road was made, which is certainly a violation and which is unsustainable. So that's what they were trafficing, and that's exactly what shooting the embankment was exactly in that spot, by chance or not by accident. Anyway, if the rash hadn't been cut off, if it hadn't been for traffic, if it hadn't been traffic, if it hadn't been for the oaks and less for the oatmeals, maybe the damage to Obrenovac today would have been less, maybe even the number of victims would have been smaller, but certainly the material damage would have been less. Speaking of these tree oaks, it's unsustainable that someone singles out 1.4 million dinars for the treatment of a single oak, and in that year, they don't separate a single white dinar for the maintenance of embankments, water streams, etc. Also, in a certain way, it bothers me and it stings my eyes that no one will mention the riverbed. Someone from the opposition mentioned it, but no one wants to say that this devastation lasts for years and why does no one talk about these rafts that run along Sava from Belgrade to Obrenovac? I'm asking as a layman, is it possible that these rafts and these objects are, in a certain way, slowing the currents of Sava? If they slow down such a flow, then the waterway grows. If the water is growing, then Kolubara can't be watered because of the increased state of Sava. So, did these rafts come from 16 April to today, or have they been permanently raised in the last 10-15 years? Are they in a certain way taking part in the slower course of the Sava and, together with the failure to maintain the troughs and the canal networks, participating in the results of such accidents, or consequences, far greater than if such small things had happened? As for further grudges, the only thing I would recommend for the government to supplement the report is to take care of the Water Act. I claim that law is not good. We were on the committee to say that the law tore apart a single water company in three water companies. Instead of "Serbijavoda", we now have "Serbijavoda", "Vojvoda Waters" and "Belgrade", which may not be bad if they were given authority exclusively as a local type. However, if you share the main powers of defence against floods, the construction of embankments, etc., then because you have three water companies, which you have, for example, three inspections and three budgets or I may have made a mistake, there are two, but mainly this unique Water Act has torn apart a unique way of defending and maintaining our water streams, rivers and sewers. It can simply happen, and in Obrenovac, the intertwined "Serbia", "Belgrade", and "Vojvodovod", we can be able, if we defend ourselves from the floods in the future, to come to a rivalry and to say, "Vojvodnavod" plays a little more rash than on the other side of "Serbia" and try to sink each other. In the world, it is a well - known example that in defense of floods and the construction of embankments, several states are joining together to solve a particular problem. It's almost amazing to me that in one country you tear the system apart into three parts and that it's torn apart from the flood and the construction of the embankment, even in these main water streams, not just in smaller rivers and streams. So, floods and droughts really can't be avoided. I also want to thank the army, but I also have to thank the soldiers, especially those professional ones, to say that whenever the trouble comes, we worship God and the soldier. When the troubles pass, we forget soldiers, but that is no reason to thank the soldiers in a certain way, of course, to all those who took part in the rescue and defense of the flood. Of course I'm going to vote for these laws, because it's the only way to restore life to those who are in great trouble, who are affected by this flood as soon as possible. In general, the water supply situation has been abandoned, and it has been inherited as such, of course, on 16 April as it has been abandoned and abandoned by our country, unfinished and I often have the habit of saying that there is no state in this country, that parallel with the state we have to make everything and defend against floods. So the state is simply ground to dust, and in order to make something out of the dust, you have to mix the clay first, bake the crep, brick, and then you can make a building. So the state is such a complex product that it takes a long time to make. Finally, to conclude, if we want something more, we need to be something more than we've ever been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4372	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4373	Thank you. Let's start with the Colubara. Right now, let me say that the Colubara is secure and resecured for the floods. I know there are problems inside the EPS. Just now, the Ministry of Energy in the previous government has instructed the competent state authorities to deal with exactly the way the chosen house is supposed to secure the EPS and everything after what's happened. I really expect to get that report. When we're specifically talking about this at our luck right now, they're insured. As for the environment, or sanitary dump of Dubok, yes, there have been two slides and our design houses, or above all the CIPs have prepared a report on the condition of all the slides, including those, and then what needs to be done and how to take care of it. I expect that in the next period with our partners, since we are already funding Deep, we will sit down and discuss how we will deal with it. You mentioned the riverbeds, the dikes, the houses. I'm waiting for information on 485 houses that were completely destroyed, so 100% destroyed, how many of them had a building permit, or how many of them were built where they could actually be built. I'm afraid we'll be surprised there. When we have that information, the public of Serbia will know about it. As for electricity imports, as far as we're informed by the EPS, the EPS has already reserved certain amounts of electricity for a period ahead of us, so for autumn and winter. What the government of Serbia will certainly do will also be able to control not only prices but also ways and in general the way electricity has been obtained from the moment we entered into a fundamental disaster, today, in the autumn, etc. We all need to know, because it's a big money that Serbia needs to give to imports of electricity in the coming period, especially given that our energy security can be compromised if we have a problem possibly in gas supply due to the crisis in Ukraine. As far as the Water Act is concerned, we discussed it in government sessions. I know that there will be changes and additions to the Water Act precisely for the reason you mentioned yourself, which we have also seen from all this we have experienced. They can't function this way, because it automatically slows us down to the possibility that we as a state could be effective, not just at a normal moment, at normal everyday moments, but at times when there could be serious problems or accidents, like the one we survived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4374	Mr. Stefanovic on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4375	I didn't ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4376	Mr. Petrovic, on what basis are you?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4377	Replica, Mr. Risticevic mentioned me by name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4378	Mr. Petrovich, you have no right. Mr. Ristice-vic isn't your name, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4379	Mr. Chairman, about the investment he also talked about what was done in the irrigation or not. He mentioned me by my name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4380	I will read to you item 104, and then you will conclude that I do not explain myself – if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is insolently expressing himself about a National MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication. A second position – if an offensive term refers to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the President of the Parliament Group has the right to reply. The final position - i.e. on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article - shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman. Based on this, you have no basis for replication at all. Please, let's move on. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4381	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I guess today it is clear that we are living with environmental risks, and it seems to me now that it is clear to everyone. The environmental disaster that has occurred to us is the result of climate change and what awaits us, and what we should be doing hastily is a national adaptation strategy for climate change. We've been waiting for that job for 15 years. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia has given up making such a national strategy, and we may be a leader in the region, so we suggest we do the Western Balkans strategy in response or adaptation to climate change. It's just an idea with a desire, to say here not to apostrophe the culprits, but to find a way to make the report better, and how to make the law more effective, given that the citizens of Obrenovac, Lazarets, Krupnje, Vladimirca, Koceljeva, etc. have been expecting help for two months. That's why we need to be quick and get to those people as soon as possible. Unfortunately, the report we have in front of us from a lot of details does not show the essence. We're not even sure what we're adopting here. We have 20 different reports that contain nothing of the essence. The least I can expect is a new report that elaborated the previous state of jurisdiction and responsibility, the current situation after the flood, where the damage assessment is systematised, the methodology that has been done and, of course, the conclusion with the measure's proposal. We can take this report as an initial report, as an initial document, and the least we can expect is a new report. There are no reports in this report on water, land, food, fruit and vegetables, and that is what is most critical now in endangered areas and in particularly threatened areas that are under floods. Unfortunately, the presentation of the existing situation only gave "Serbia Water" somewhat, and those in their report are very picturesque about what the problem is. I quote: “All the territorially competent water companies in the operational plan are, in order to reduce the volume of necessary works and not the debt charged for the works carried out in a very difficult human and material situation, which is why these important entities are not ready enough to carry out their obligations under the general flood defence plan.” This situation continues to deteriorate, and it can be improved by the reconciliation of debt and the provision of the necessary financial resources to maintain a flood defence system. In this report, we do not have a report "Vojvode Water", we do not have a report "Belgrade Water", as I only know on Belgrade Water territory, we have damage from one billion dinars and we have people who have not received their salary for six months. Then it's hypocritical, to say so quickly and so quickly expect everything to be able to react at the moment. He is most important at this point for the citizens of Obrenovac is when there will be the funds that are promised and when they will start paying off. What we can't forget are people and companies who took part in the defense by giving out technical equipment, giving people, who would have to be compensated in some way, because we don't have the right to bury yet another new business branch in that way, which we took during the flood, of course, is an emergency situation, without any order, but let me say, let's think about these companies and how we're going to decompose them. On the other hand, the parliamentary question I asked showed that the Republic of Hydrometeorological Institute was one of the bravest and obviously most professional institutions to announce and predict disasters. Now it's clear that this question is not a matter of elemental accident, but of the ecological question, that many parts of the plums lack biological blankets, there's not enough noise, and that we have a cause problem. We've cured, or should I say, we've recovered the first part of the consequences, we're left to treat the causes, and we're left to repair the system so these things don't happen again. When we talk about the law with the bill, the least we should have found is a draft programme and what we might expect the report to adopt parliament. We expect answers to how many officials will be in the office and how they will be hired, whether and in what way they will be paid for their work, and believe that "Green", I speak only on behalf of the Greens", would be willing to support the government and give instructions for the existing Public Procurement Act and react immediately, on the 25th and, after accelerated procedures, because the emergency circumstances, are going to purchase and start to solve the problem. Today, two months after the catastrophic floods, we can't solve any more problems, we can't fix any problems. Of course, we should appeal to the social responsibility of banks, which according to some estimates, have drawn several billion from the Republic of Serbia, from citizens and citizens, to appeal to them to build a consortium of banks, to give flooded areas of unambiguous credits, with a grace period of two years, and thus to return to citizens and citizens of flooded areas, at least part of the profits they have made in these 25 years, but in the last 15 years they have intensively drawn from the Republic of Serbia. We have a proposal and a solidarity fund is being organised for development. In response to the parliamentary question, Minister Vujovic announced the idea, or should I say, declared it very interesting, and that it should be further thought. What is very interesting is that during last year's debate on budget rebalancing, we recommended that the Emergency Budget Fund be raised to 281 million and 148 thousand. Believe me, those three nights when the water was in Obrenovac, the firemen who were in front of my apartment didn't have a single boat, they didn't have any response equipment in the flood situations, they had only fire equipment, and certainly, with this amendment that I made last year, we could in some way equip them and prepare them to engage in time, and in the best way, because on Saturday night, it wasn't possible to reach many people in Zabrezje and in villages around Obrenovac. What is the issue from the municipality of Obrenovac - is the law providing for the reconstruction of the thermal network, and does Obrenovac have instructions to remove the consequences, since Obrenovac is not a unit of local self-government? The infrastructure is mentioned here, of course. For us, it is a very important hot water pipeline in Obrenovac, since from 420 substations 390 were flooded and absolutely underwater. What's most important is to mention little heroes almost nobody mentions. They are citizens of Obrenovac, they are citizens of Bolec, Jacob, citizens who Friday night and Saturday morning, self-organized, pulled out their neighbours and their fellow citizens to avoid a major disaster. We have a chance to put the danger and risk ahead of us into advantage and chance. The green economy is the answer to that. The green economy turns weakness into strength and dangers into odds. It is evident that after this report, we have a public governance crisis in local self-government in Serbia, that we have a crisis of management from local self-government to the very top. What is definitely clear is that the senseless arching of natural resources is not sustainable, that a new single ministry of natural resources and environmental protection is necessary, in response to climate change, in response to environmental pollution and in response to everything that awaits us. I thank you, and in part when we discuss amendments, I hope we can talk about some details as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4382	Thank you. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4383	The first answer to this thermal grid in Obrenovac. Yes, the permits will appear on the city, or the city will edit the permits, but the user will, of course, be the municipality of Obrenovac. Of course, that's covered by this law. Secondly, when you mentioned the report, since you said there was no damage assessment, so there's no other additional analysis, etc. First of all, let me remind you of this report, and it is clear about the elemental flood disaster that has hit Serbia and the measures taken to save the population and defend the affected areas from the flood. So, just what happened at the moment from the beginning of the flood to the very end. So it didn't cover this second part, and that's the assessment of the damage that we did afterwards based on the established methodologies. In addition, the Serbian government had no obligation to write or to give, this report was done by the Serbian government on its own initiative to make a report and show what was done from hour to hour, and therefore perhaps I seem too detailed to someone, or perhaps that's why someone calls him in one way or another. But from an hour to an hour, what did anyone do and represented the Republic of Serbia? The damage analysis, i.e. the damage assessment was determined afterwards, through the commission and through certain methodologies done and therefore with that second assessment of the damage we are at the donor conference today. You mentioned better coordination of local self-government. We all agreed on that. We also agreed, in particular, that it's high time we treated each other completely differently, not just natural resources, but to take care of the water streams and find a clear program of how we're going to do it. I'm not sure we have enough money for that, but on the other hand, there are clear talks with many partners and regionally, not just within Serbia, how we can resolve it. We probably can't do it in a few months, but at least in some future period, we have to do it seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4384	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I think it is very important that for a month, just over a month after the suspension of the state of emergency today in parliament we are discussing a report on the floods, the Law of Rehabilitation after the floods, but also what we have today is a donor conference. However, the autumn and winter will come very soon and the government is aware that every moment is valuable for building houses and for general recovery and reconstruction. I expect that after the adoption of this law, which is the first step in this, Serbia will be a major construction site and that by the beginning of winter everything will be built and restored by the dynamics established by this report and the law. I also expect this government to take into account the positive experiences of the previous period when we faced elementary disasters. When I say that, I mean the floods in Banat, the rinks in the Kopalnik region and Bogdanj where there was becoming an exceptional coordination between the ministry then led by Velimir Ilic, the local self-government and the contractors. I think it's very important because these houses are built in record time and it's all over really fantastic and it's going to mean now in this renovation. In parallel with the renewal, it is my opinion that we must take care of both prevention and therefore, in the coming period, I expect that some kind of sectoral regrouping will take place from other ministries at the Ministry of Emergency in order for the ministry to respond more quickly and efficiently in the event of any elemental accidents in a situation that may arise. You, Mrs. Mihajlovic, said today that the damage to the electricity sector is 119m euros. Also, in one statement a few days ago, you said you were not satisfied with the dynamics and speeds that remove damage to the EP, although the EPS took all necessary measures. That is why my question to you – when do you expect anything necessary to be remedied in the field of electricity and when will we return to power generation before the flood? The NS parliamentary group believes we also need a new law in the area of water industry. We believe that the law has in one unnatural way divided rivers along municipal borders, and not by plums, and that local self-governments are practically neither professional, nor financial, nor technical capacity for powers given to them by the 2010 law. Also, we lack sanctions in the existing law that must be clearly defined. It's a big problem that over the past 40 years people have been building houses in the rims, which have now passed directly through their house. You, of course, are not to blame for this, are you running this Department of Construction and Urbanism for 100 days, but my question for you and for the whole government – did you do anything about revising these lists around the streams so that this would never happen again? Did the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism give additional control, in fact, and give additional orders to the building inspectors and building chiefs not to give building permits to build houses in these places. You might say the law regulates whether we have the law by now, but we've seen what happened. Also, I'm sorry that today is not the Minister of Education, Mr Verbic. The NS parliamentary group will send a concrete proposal to Minister Verbic. We believe that civil education as an electoral object that lasts eight years in primary school, and in high school for four years, should be reduced and the subject of civil protection and some other subjects as electoral, such as the development of entrepreneurship, but civil protection is very important and it has proved that this knowledge is lacking to all of us, especially to our children after these floods. I need to ask you another question for the end. A large number of domestic companies appear to us as MPs, a NS MP group and ask us if VAT will be abolished for donations they make after these floods, as it was done for foreign donations. Prime Minister Vukic said there were certain abuses. I think these abuses can be sanctioned. Is the government preparing some kind of regulation or anything to free these companies from VAT? In any case, the NS parliamentary group will support the report and the law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4386	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4387	Just a moment to answer these questions you asked. So, as for the EPS and the damage to the energy sector, it's estimated that it can't be before spring next year. When we talk about how it was built and how it was built, it doesn't take much to talk about. It's clear to everyone. We today have an estimate of 1.5 million illegally built buildings in Serbia and for the past 10 years almost nothing has been brought down, and when I say almost nothing, it means that it is measured by approximately 100. We have prepared a proposal for the prime minister and for the government, related to legalisation, in general, and I expect that by autumn we make a certain decision in the government and we try to resolve it. Why am I telling you this? Because we've tried the inspection, we're trying to send an inspection wherever possible. What's completely amazing is that the Department of Construction today has seven building inspectors for all of Serbia, which is not normal, too. So we have the law, we have to exercise control, we have the inspection, and then it turns out that the number of people who have to do this is small, and that's different in some other positions. Since the preparation and reform of the state administration and that in a completely different way will be done, so will the inspection, and when I say prepare, I don't mean in the months ahead of us, but in a few months ahead of us, a month or two, and I believe that we will solve this problem. It's our job to control this law. So, this law that's being debated today in principle, and on Friday according to the amendments, and I hope it will be adopted, is ours as the Department of Civil Engineering to monitor and we will make every effort to make sure that everything that is done, especially mentioning where the recording will be, where it will be seen, and the office will have an obligation to put it and publish it in public. We'll try to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4388	According to the Rules of Procedure Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4389	Mr. Chairman, I now have to intervene with this book. On the basis of Article 103, I asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure in relation to paragraph 104, which you have read. So, I'm saying here, when I had my turn in the Rules of Procedure, I said what I had on the content of the debate at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and Mr. Risticevic is the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. I spoke here of certain decisions made by the committee and they relate to the verification of the funds spent over the past 15 years for irrigation, drainage and flood defense. Mr. Risticevic was talking about this thing. The point was that discussion and my name and misread what I said. So on the basis of Article 104, I asked for a replica, and you wouldn't let me, so now I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking you to give me the right to the replica you denied me last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4390	I stand by the view that you had no right to a replica, nothing was offensive. That doesn't mean, if he mentioned you, you have a mandatory right to replication. I didn't experience it that way, and I don't think you have the right to a replica. As for the very injuries of the Rules of Procedure from this answer, it is also the conclusion that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it is your right to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, if you wish. Do you want to? (National MP Dusan Petrovic, from the post: He did not insult me, but misread me. I ask that the Assembly be declared. Gentlemen, please do not translate a harmless situation into a situation that is not appropriate here. I don't think there's really any reason to argue whether or not I allowed the replica. If you continue to do so, I will strictly apply the rules of the Rules of Procedure. (The People's MP Dusan Petrovic, from the place: We don't fight, we talk. I will punish every abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The first has the word Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4391	In an attempt, Your Honor, General, to help, I'm advertising Article 104. – if offensively expressed, it is true, but you also have the part that you have read, or misread its exposure. You can restrictively interpret the Rules of Procedure. That's what the President of the Assembly sometimes does, sometimes you do, sometimes Mr. Becic, I just ask you not to do it because, if that's what you do, then there won't really be any possibility that some basic rights that the Rules of Procedure allow MPs to take advantage of, and at the same time when speaking inappropriate and offensive expressions, then it doesn't react. I ask you to fully apply the rule then to allow MPs to react. Insulting is one thing and misreading is another. If there were no misreading, no one would be able to report here for anything, because we all interpret only what you or the ruling majority think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4392	I'm still standing by to say there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is your right to state whether in the voting day you are asking the Assembly to plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4393	I'm not asking him to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4394	Marijan Rističević, same injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4395	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, I am advocating Article 103 and immediately to say that I have not said anything offensive about 104. I didn't do anything, I just said I was confirming the exposure, part of Mr Petrovic's exposure to the disposal fee. So I didn't say anything offensive, so I agree with the chairman that it wasn't the subject of the replica and that the blame was on me. In a certain way, I wanted to give Mr Petrovic extra time to use some extra time, so it's my fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4396	I don't think it's your obligation to justify yourself. It's my duty. I also don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Don't, please don't abuse me again. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic, only on what basis? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4397	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure in article 107. Otherwise, I've wanted a break before, but I don't know why I'm not allowed to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but especially because of a short-time speaker who teaches us nice behavior here, and I'm going to say now for the sake of the public, since some of the daily papers have made some mistake, I'm sorry, but this is what you're obliged to tell me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4398	No, I won't let you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4399	This is your responsibility to allow me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4400	I won't let you. This is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure. First you call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I won't let you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here, you have four minutes and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4401	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will say a few words about a law that should be removed in the coming months by the consequences of the floods that have hit Serbia. The basic problem with this law is that it derivates the Public Procurement Act. There are about ten reasons why I feel that this law should not be passed. So, it derogates the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, creates the possibility of corruption, the possibility of abuse and gives great discretion to the government, the Prime Minister and the director of the office that was formed. The most dramatic example is Article 13 in which, based practically on a public invitation statement, it accepts that it meets the requirements, as someone just said on the basis - my mother meets the conditions, that is enough reason for someone to get a job. However, what may be most important in this law is the fact that it forms an office that needs to realize the restoration of the land resulting from the flood. However, we have another problem. This office has already been formed without law. Where was the legal basis for forming that office, if only this law provided for the possibility of it forming? This office already has a director. For the director, since he is in the capacity of a civil servant in office, a work experience of nine years in the profession is required. Mr. Marko Blagojevic was and worked at CeSID. From the data available on his biography, I have come to the fact that he is harassed in the fall of Belgrade, because he does not like this season and there is a possibility that a man actually resigns in the autumn and leaves the country to someone else. It also says in his biography that he reads the literature, and he loves Tom Klenzi most, he wrote "The Hunting of Red October", after which he made the film. He loves James Bond and listens to AC/DC, Zizi top, Duran - Duran. Are those...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4402	Ambassador, does it matter who the music likes to listen to? It's commendable that a man listens to a rock roll.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4403	It is very important, this is what Mark Blagojevic qualified from the available data to us MPs, to be the director of the country's rebuilding office. Did he finish college, which college and does he have nine years of professional work, what is he looking for? Is public opinion research work in construction, in public procurement, etc? So his biography says he doesn't like domestic music and he doesn't like fall in Belgrade. On the basis of this, can we conclude that Marko Blagojevic will...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4404	It can be concluded what a person's profile is and what a cultural mile it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4405	There's nothing about his expertise, that's the problem. So I'm talking about the data that we have available, whether this man, I ask the Deputy Prime Minister, will be able to realise this demanding project that is expected to have a roof over his head in the fall of every man he doesn't like.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4406	You've wasted your time, I'll tell you that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4407	But you took 30 seconds from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4408	I'm not exactly 30 seconds, three seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4409	Three seconds...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4410	Don't argue, if you want to use this time, I'll be tolerated, take another 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4411	So, we don't have what the government has done now based on this law and on this report, we don't have a chance to believe that you're going to do what's expected of this office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4412	Now you've used your time. Thank you. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4413	The office was formed under the Government Act, therefore, not just formed and there is a legal basis, a legal basis for it to be formed, Article 31 and 32. The director has been appointed as an appointed person and so that when we talk about posted persons, as we talk about appointed persons such as ministers or directors of offices, it does not stand clearly as to what professions and how they should be, or what they should have all of their abilities, since you mentioned certain things. What is more important to me, it is not a matter here, and you can talk about the office and need, it is the government's service, but behind this law, behind everything that has been done in Serbia since the flood, is the Serbian government that has its prime minister, who has its vice-presidents and ministers. We are the ones who are responsible for everything that happens today and tomorrow and in a month when houses are also built, when people have, as we have said and promised several times, every day, that those who have lost their houses will have their houses before autumn. Like I said, all those roads that were destroyed or simply damaged after the flood will be remedied by October 1st. We're the ones behind it. That's why we have the law, because of that we have an office that needs to implement a state programme that will form a resolution ministry. When you talk about the Public Procurement Act, you're completely wrong. The law on public procurement has been applied here in an open procedure. The only thing that's under that law, so to speak, in Article 12, in the last position, which is not applied by the Public Procurement Act, refers to the procurement plan. Do you know why? Because now, after the adoption of this law, a reconstruction programme will be established that will be adopted by the Serbian government, which is in fact a procurement plan, which will then be implemented through the Office, but along with the ministries. Therefore, precisely because we would all be informed, that everything would be public, that every step this government is taking would be seen exactly, that's why we have the Office, that's why we have the program, that's why we have the law. Also, the Law on Public Procurement, which, in this law on flood resolution, is about the Law on Public Procurement, we have shortened only time, but it has also remained the possibility for everyone to complain, let's say, to the Commission for Public Procurement, with the Commission for Public Procurement, under this law, to give their opinion within five days, and that solution is finally. So, all the instruments, everything that existed in the Public Procurement Act, and what exists, exist here, except for this supply plan, and what's short of time. It's short time to be faster, to be more efficient. We can't let public procurement stall, because we just don't have time. We really have a job to do by autumn. What this law also presents is that everything I'm saying now and what we're talking about, so both the program itself and all the public procurement, it has to be on the site, it has to be seen. For every job that's done, everyone who applies for that job will be standing by, how much it costs, what contract it's made, who it's concluded with, precisely because they don't come into a situation that in a year or two we're saying something wasn't right. So everything will exist in the papers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4414	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. ) You do not have the right to replica under Article 104. So, read it, the minister just responded to your discussion. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Misreading. I'm begging you... No, she didn't misread you, she answered. The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4415	Dear President, ministers, fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to stress that the MPs of the Single Serbia Group will support the draft law on the removal of floods in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the government's report on the elemental disaster. The elemental disasters affecting much of Europe this spring have caused the most serious consequences in the Balkan territory, especially the Republic of Serbia. Large areas of agricultural land have been flooded, significant economic and housing facilities, and most importantly, in the waters not so insignificant a number of human lives have disappeared. All of this points to the need to adopt regulations that would create conditions for preventive action and in similar situations resulting in the least possible measure. No matter how severe the consequences of this year's May floods may have been, we cannot ignore the fact that they could have been even more fatal if there were no timely and adequate response from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all its ministries, especially the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, but also many volunteers who have contributed to helping the suffering population. At a time when, after the March elections, responsibility for the leadership of the state was assumed by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, who very bravely started root reforms at all levels, the elemental disaster threatened to stop a process expected to put Serbia on its good feet within two or three years. At such times, Mr. Vukic faced another problem and thanks to the world’s reputation and personal ties, he provided significant humanitarian assistance to the flooded population. I cannot mention the great contribution of Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, who managed by coordinating activities with the Serbian diaspora to provide significant material resources to help the flood victims. According to my information, funds have arrived in Serbia and have already begun to be shared with those most needed at the moment to eliminate or at least mitigate the consequences of a natural disaster and welcome each of the threatened winters in a restored home. What I would talk about today and what I would put an accent on is the situation in the City of Kraljev, which, on two occasions this year, was affected by the floods in April and May. Catastrophic floods that hit the royal area during April and May this year have caused huge damage to infrastructure and housing facilities, as well as to agricultural land. At the beginning of the second half of April, the first flood wave covered more than a thousand hectares of farmland, so farmers were forced to re-sow fields on both sides of Morava after the water retreated. Nabuja Ribnica threatened part of the same suburban settlement, but a timely reaction by the crisis headquarters during only one night was prevented by the overrunping of stone on the river's coast. The lush streams in the view area on two occasions, in April and May, took a large number of bridges of different sizes, so many households were without communication for several days with the rest of the world. The rapid and efficient action of members of the engineering units of the other Land Army brigade, whose headquarters is in the Kingdom, has installed three heavy mechanized launch bridges in Ravanica, Godacica and Bogatovac and thus restored communication until the final solution of the problem. Part of what damaged the first flood wave has further destroyed the second flood wave, including parts of the infrastructure that have been repaired in the meantime. A significant amount of damage suffered about 500 households on the move from Mrsac to Vitanovac, where the level of water in housing reached up to two metres in certain places. As soon as the water retreated to the GICA suburban settlement, about 200 volunteers went on the ground, mostly students of the Transport and Technical School "Nikola Tesla" and students of the Faculty of Engineering, who organised through social networks. Thus, among the first cities of flooded areas in Serbia, complete application of mud and other dirt was removed from the houses, which was a condition for disinfection, deratiation and protection from mosquitoes. Public enterprises, "Purity" and "Putevi" responded in due time, whose mechanism carried all the waste from flooded houses, as well as part of the destroyed furniture. She responded very quickly to the City Assembly's decision that 64 million dinars from the Solidarity Building Fund would be re-directed to the flood-related recovery, so that the city council would make a solution to grant one-time cash aid of 120,000 dinars to the owners of all households that suffered damage. They responded by royal artists, different esnafian associations, who organised the distribution of aid on their own. The money also arrived at a dedicated flood-related account, and the largest donation of 40,000 euros came from Maribor's partner town. They arrived from different sides, and one of them with 25 tons of different products, along with my engagement, was delivered by our people who live and work in Germany. With the help of friends from Italy, 20 children from the flooded area flew on the Montenegrin coast. Our friends from the Italian province of Trantino collect parts of furniture expected in the King no later than a month later. The second flood wave forced farmers to process fields for the third time and cut them, and the Commission, formed by local self-government, estimated the damage to 900 million dinars. According to the information I have, it was provided to the resolution ministries. In particular, it should be noted and commended to those cities and municipalities that self-organised and proactively responded to the removal of damage and the provision of assistance to the endangered population. It is certain that in the efficiency of Jagodina, where city officials, who otherwise do not receive compensation for their work, were separated by 20,000 dinars, local businesses and entrepreneurs donated to the average of 300,000 dinars, and factories per million dinars. With the help of these funds, furniture and white equipment were purchased to allow households to function normally as soon as possible. These people were also presented with a new wardrobe as a donation of businessmen from Novi Pazar and the factory "First May - Pirote". Thanks to this help, the population quickly returned to everyday life. Finally, I would like to reiterate that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the government's report in the voting day and vote in favour of the proposal for a law on the removal of the consequences of the floods in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4416	The word has a folk MP named Milena Corilić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4417	Dear Prime Minister, honourable MPs, from the Report of Floods that took place in our country, it is evident that the government has reacted slowly from declaring an emergency situation on the territory of the Republic of Serbia to taking all measures to save, above all, the endangered population, and then material goods, as well as taking all measures to collect and distribute aid in endangered areas. As a resident of the town of Sapca, which was one of the most endangered and defended thanks to the call of the Serbian government, I want to thank the government, members of the military, police and all those who have come to defend our city from the flood, along with the citizens of Sapca. Also, I thank the students, the youth, the high school students, who worked all the time to raise the embankment on Savi. The report describes the activities the government was taking during the emergency from the flood. My city is protected from the Sava River, but parts of the city are flooded, both from atmospheric rainfall and from the spill of smaller streams and public sewers. The question arises – in addition to aiding the threatened and rehabilitated infrastructure, what is necessary to do in the event of possible subsequent floods, which will happen if the drain systems do not improve, because the flood protection system is done when the weather is good? I believe that in every municipality, a report should be made on critical places where water spills occurred and the causes of spillage and what needs to be done not to repeat it. As can be seen from the Report, Sabac is defended from the Sava River, but the spills of water in the city and the surrounding area occurred from the Dumac and Dobrava River, the Cersko coastal canal, the urban sewerage, the inflow of water from the chemical industry “Zorka” and the brook streams in suburban settlements and the rural area. Only parts of the city have been submerged. So it's important to make reports and leave a record of how and where the area is flooded. The gathering of this information would improve the situation and prepare to defend against the next possible floods. The defence against floods is not only the task of "Serbia", but of utility, police or military. It's a spectrum of the entire society. I believe that there must be jurisdiction in municipalities and cities where this has not been done. We all know that “Serbian waters” defends against floods from the Sava River, Danube and other larger rivers, but who is responsible for small streams, canals and sewers? During the flood, some parts turned out to flood to a greater or smaller extent every year. This time it was drastic. In a conversation with citizens living in those parts, they asked a question – and why did they give us city permits? Every city and municipality has surfaces, parts that have been blue for centuries, except floods aren't every day, so forget it. Urbanisation of these areas and settlement of blue areas only increases the problem of flood defence. Therefore, when drawing up the design documentation of general urban projects, it must be taken into account parts of the city that are naturally melted and not allowed to be built, because the houses built in those cities are difficult to defend. Also, it is necessary to analyse the state of the sewer systems. Most of it was built 50 years ago. The cities have spread. Is the capacity sufficient, given the larger amount of water that comes into them? Do you need a reconstruction? These are all questions on which days we must look for an answer, for we have seen all the shortcomings in the floods. All flood defense systems cost a lot, as well as their maintenance, but defending against floods is the work of the entire society. Therefore, education of the population and raising awareness of the importance of the flood defence system is needed. When you look at our channels and words, and even big rivers, they're dumps of old stoves, refrigerators and car cuts and other waste. I'm sure they weren't brought there by either the "Serbian" or the military, or the police. This is what the locals did when the floods came and the consequences of the immersed houses and courtyards. We cannot expect that the responsibility for channel maintenance will solve all the problems. A thousand can't do any damage, one can sustain. If we do not raise awareness of the importance of the flood defense system by education of citizens, then apply sharp measures. In the end, I think every municipality would have to do an analysis of its blue areas and explore the causes that led to it, and propose measures to improve it, not to wait for new floods, but to raise the defense to a higher level. The PUPS parliamentary group will support and vote in favour of both the Report and the Law on the removal of the effects of the flood in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4418	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4419	The President-in-Office, respected Deputy Prime Minister, co-workers in the Government and Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group, as already stressed and underlined by the authorised representative who spoke, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, will certainly support the proposed Law on the Elimination of Floods and this Report on the elemental disaster. This report is comprehensive and has given a complete picture of the severity and proportions of the elemental disaster that is one of the biggest and most difficult that has hit Serbia. It also provides a complete picture of government engagement, state authorities, competent institutions, local self-government, its authorities and the population. It has been shown that we have had the full commitment, actions and concerns of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of all ministries in action. As it turned out, everyone acted as quickly as possible within their responsibilities, and this resulted. Of course, there have been some failures, but long ago in Serbia we didn't have such a well-coordinated action and the functioning of a system that was focused this time on saving human lives, on saving material goods, on evacuating the population. The daunting and catastrophic state on the one hand in the most threatened areas affected by the floods, on the other hand, seemed encouraging and, I would say, the government's competent work and the presence and presence of the most responsible people in this country, headed by Prime Minister Vukic. Then there were other ministers: Selakovic, Stefanovic, Gasic, Energy Minister Aleksandar Antić, Agriculture Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, and Ivica Dacic was certainly responsible for bringing together a large number of ambassadors and diplomats who saw the consequences of this disaster on the spot. Of course, it deserves all praise to mention Predrag Maric, the man who runs the Emergency Sector. In addition to the full and great commitment and coordinated functioning of the entire system in defense of a natural disaster, it was not possible to defend ourselves against a debauched and angry nature, so to speak. The damages are indeed great in all spheres and in all sectors of life and work. Thus, it is certainly necessary to learn some lessons and to point out what should be measures, which is the use of dedicated means to regulate water streams, which was not the way it should be in the past. Now you can see what a lack of two or three or even thousands of firefighters and rescuers means and you need to work on that fill-in. Also, refurbishment of equipment and additional equipment is very important because of future times so that they do not repeat themselves in these proportions and that there are no such consequences. More supervision of entities with specific competences in these areas is required. I have no doubt that the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Government, will take care of all this. It comes from Braničsky County, more specifically from Petrovec at Mlava, from a river marked with its own name Mlava, which has the verbic meaning and the fact that it grinds or, in order to say otherwise, mills, mills, it carries, roll, knocks down everything in front of it when it swells and is very dangerous then. There were not enough words in the media about floods on the Mlavi River in places such as Petrovac on Mlavi and Malo Crnic. In Petrovac we had that he died in a flood kindergarten, with great damage, high school, 257 houses, 72 auxiliary facilities, 183 hectares of sown area. When it comes to the law, Article 2(2) does not state the municipality of Malo Crnića, which was covered by the flood and there is documentation about it. I heard some other municipalities weren't covered. We have submitted the amendment, but I hope that the amendment of the Committee will cover all these municipalities and that it will be resolved in the best possible way. Also, Mlava has endangered the thermo-energy giant TEKO, i.e. the “Kostolac” thermal power plant and surface spears in “Kostolic” and the environment. There have been several visits by Energy and Mining Minister Aleksandar Antic in company with EPS Director Obradovic, together with CEO TECO Dragan Jovanovic and local self-government representatives of the town of Pozarec, and with the presence of special groups from France, a significant defence of this thermo-energy giant has been made, however, a major success in comparison with Kolubara. It impresses the interest and activity of young people who have participated in all of this. That's how it was in every place. This was the case in Petrovac at Mlavi when the consequences were removed in kindergarten or high school or private households. It is important to make commendation and foundations, humanitarian organisations, donors. I will mention Anna and the Government of Divac, the Novak Djokovic Foundation, which gave 10 million dinars for the renovation of children's kindergarten in Petrovac. When it comes to the draft law on the removal of floods, it establishes transparency, legality, fairness in the business of eliminating the effects of floods and the effective completion of all operations by the beginning of the heating season. I'm going to end up with one of these, noting that the SPS is going to vote for one of these reports and the law. They will also vote on what was the activity, effort and great commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of all organs in the removal and defence of this flood.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4420	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4421	I just wanted to explain, regarding Article 1(2), what it's going to say, since I know you've given the amendment. Not only you, but members of the board, since many municipalities were not in position 2. They'll vote differently. Therefore, the area affected by the floods, within the meaning of this law, covers flooded and ice-skating areas of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, cities, municipalities that report damage to the Commission for the determination of damages from natural disasters within the time limit provided for by this law. The list of cities and municipalities that will remove the consequences of floods and the activation of ice skates, according to this law, determines the government on the proposal of the office. He's referring to all the municipalities. Now there are 126, not 26, how many are in the current proposal. I believe the board will accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4422	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Peranovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4423	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have a report on the great tragedy that took place in Serbia, in May, in the last 20 years, a tragedy that united Serbian citizens and showed how complex we are, how strong we are. From this tragedy, we have learned much how to react even better if we ever, God forbid, come into the same situation. In the previous days, we could hear numerous criticisms on the report, that the report was just numbers. However, I must tell you that these are absolutely incorrect things, because by analysing this flood report, I have found that it is exhaustive and comprehensive because it includes a detailed explanation and chronologically orderly events. Also, what testifies to the comprehensiveness of this report is the fact that it contains a detailed analysis of the measures taken to prevent floods, as well as the situation of damage caused after the flood. This is how a well-conceived report represents a good basis for the adoption of laws dealing with the process of removing the effects of floods, which is also ahead of us. The Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia is a legal act that constitutes a framework and legal basis for the country's recovery after the catastrophic floods that have hit us. The law defines which part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia has been affected by floods and is defined in which areas of the Republic of Serbia will deal with the country's recovery. The law also defines the state body, i.e. The Office for Aid and Reconstruction of Flooded Areas on the basis of whose proposals the Government will implement the country's reconstruction programme, as well as the criteria under which the work of this body will be carried out. On this occasion, I would like to point out that through the Office, there will be a transparent way of restoring the country, that we will be able to see where money, goods or any other kind of help is going on the websites. I have to point out that during the May floods, the government of the Republic of Serbia was maximumly engaged. I come from a city that has been mentioned several times in this assembly, which has managed to defend itself against disaster, the city of Sabac. Both the prime minister and the minister and the chief of staff were present throughout the flood. On the first night of the flood in the city, there were over 10,000 people. On this occasion, I want to thank all the citizens of Serbia from all the cities they have come from, who have helped. I really think that first night of the flood was crucial. Over 350,000 sacks of sacks were filled only that night and placed on the escalator next to Sava. Over a million bags were spent throughout the flood, and that was explained in detail in this report. That's why I think the report and this bill should be supported. What I would disagree on and what we often have in Serbia is that after the battle we are all smart and we all know what to do. I don't think the first wave was the headquarters's readiness at some top level and it is therefore the government's reaction to form a new headquarters, but the Shabac is not just a defense against the Sava River. It is true, we have defended ourselves from the largest water surface, as General Dikovic said, and it is indeed a great success for all of us who have been to Sapco for the past ten days. I don't think there's a man who hasn't been actively involved in defending the city, defending these suburban towns and local communities. I think we've received floods in certain local communities of little words or canals, streams that today in peacetime conditions barely exist. Really, as a doctor, I've never done a palitative job. I've always thought we should deal with prevention. What does that mean? We missed many years of the previous period of government of some other political organizations so that these canals and these words are being swept away, cleaned up, and probably some of the funds that were intended for this were spent on another side, so we got a flood both from Dobrava and from Tamnava and from Umača, it doesn't matter that I don't count them and certain local communities have suffered certain damages both on agricultural crops, livestock crops, in their households. After this situation where recovery is to be pointed out that we are about to have a period of environmental protection, first of all I am thinking about the activities of the Ministry of Health to avoid this health disaster and to avoid all these infectious diseases. I don't think in some segments we've had the appropriate readiness of the emergency sector, and right now I'm thinking that the Emergency Sector should be raised to an even higher level. In the coming period, civil protection needs to be considered, as besides members of the military, police and gendarmere and all citizens of Serbia, there must be one governing body that will deal with the civil sector, which was destroyed, destroyed in the previous period and did not work in any appropriate way at all times. It is true that we have had the help of countries of the environment, France, Switzerland, not to list all countries, but we have to have one body, one organ that will deal with emergency situations. There's a lot that's been said here about both the law and everything. I'll say that in the next period we have to build something to protect ourselves, the law, the act, and from floods, fires and all other elemental situations. It's something to act on. We'll be ready if it comes. We are all witnessing that God does not give Serbia and the countries in the environment the threat of an accident or an elemental disaster. That's why we have to do it, to make an act based on which to act and work in the next period. Once again, the government has shown one seriousness and one consistency. We are talking yesterday and today about reforms and Serbia's entry into the EU. Just like this, when it is necessary to build and build, to bring in one act, we show both the seriousness and consistency and the determination to deal with all the problems. We no longer want to deal with the consequences, but we want to move forward and deal with the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4424	The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4425	Dear Mr Vice President, honourable fellow MPs, respected members of the government, the elemental flood disaster that struck some parts of the country two months ago, is probably the biggest natural disaster and destruction that has happened to us in the past few decades and perhaps more. All those sorrows and pains of tens of thousands of disillusioned citizens who in one day lost all their property deeply shaken all of our citizens who in those days showed great solidarity with citizens from endangered areas, providing selflessly all kinds of help. I come from the Lazarec Municipality, which has suffered huge material losses in these floods. In addition to one human sacrifice we had, it's been inflicted on the mining base of Kolubara. It is known that the Kolubara mining base is the backbone of our energy system whose coal production during the flood was brought into a very difficult situation. The Kolubara workers once again showed and proved their courage, skill and high professionalism by working day and night to resuscitate the effects of the floods by maintaining the level of production on spears where production could be launched to provide sufficient amounts of coal for the supply of the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant Obrenovac, whose production of electricity is vital to all Serbia. The water has turned the tadpoles into lakes, and to pump it is needed by the most modern pumps and a lot of time. This damage is enormous and it is clear that Kolubara will not be able to resuscitate it herself, but the whole state and society must be involved, and the sooner the winter period will be met with sufficient amounts of electricity and stable supply. The great damage suffered by agriculture, and this is known to have submerged about 900 hectares of the most fertile fields and oranics along the water streams themselves, that over 3,000 cattle had died, vegetables had been destroyed. The infrastructure suffered severe damage. There have been 82 rinks that threaten to endanger housing and travel routes. In the Municipality of Lazarec large damages were recorded on residential and commercial buildings. To make the situation even harder, the wind of the hurricane size that carried the roofs, pulled the trees, and destroyed the orchards ten days after the flood wave. I won't waste your time with the numbers, that data was sent to the report on the amount of material damage to the departments in charge. I would take this opportunity to proudly point out the great heart of my fellow citizens of the Lazarec Municipality on solidarity they showed in these difficult days, day and night by doing their best to help the flooded and save what could be saved. I can't find any weak link in the chain of public enterprises and institutions, because local self-government has functioned pretty well in the care of unhappy families, in the supply and distribution of humanitarian aid. The Lazarec municipality, however, has a small budget of 720 million dinars, whose resources are not enough for the basic functioning of the municipality, and where the damage to the victims without the help of the government and the state to a greater extent. I must especially commend the members of the police, the fire departments and the military, the foreign rescuers on the shown great self-indulgence and advocacy in carrying out tasks in the rescue of people and property. This time, the government reacted in the best possible way, functioned as a well-played team to evacuate, save human lives, and to collect and distribute humanitarian aid. The Law on the Elimination of Floods, which is also ahead of us, is one successful attempt to systematically predict all or at least most of the measures that should be taken to eliminate or at least mitigate the effects of flood damage. I believe that many of the measures and procedures in this law are well laid down and prescribed, although given the extent of the damage that has been done, all of them will hardly be able to be removed within a year. As a key measure in this law, I see the one in Article 28. A bill which obliges the state as an investor to build typical housing, certain squares, those who have lost their roof over their heads. That's why it's very important here that these main projects are done as soon as possible, so that this most important segment of reconstruction begins as soon as possible. Of course, I appeal to all the participants in the process and to all the men who are threatened to be managed by security in the process, as the first principle, in order to help them get to those who really need it. We're all aware that it can always be better, but with nature and water verse, it's hard to fight. This is the best thing that could be done at any given moment. We were all united by a selfish struggle to save people's lives, so I'm sure we were all unique in that intention. It's done more than expected, and we're all witnesses of what happened to us. Everyone within the limits of his abilities has done as much as he could. Anyone can be robbed of a mistake, so be it, but the greatest sin is sin and sin on those who have done nothing. We must be aware of the difficult economic situation in Serbia, we must be patient and all join in helping to restore flooded areas and help all the damaged tolls and return to normal life flows. I therefore propose that this report and the law on the removal of the effects of the flood be adopted. The PUPS parliamentary group in the voting day will give its support. Finally, I have to point out that flood damage recovery measures should not be short-lived, but must prepare long-term damage recovery programmes, and in particular have to draw certain experiences out of these events in order to have minor consequences and human casualties in a new similar emergency situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4426	Thank you, Mrs. Paunovic. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4427	Thank you. Just a little bit of information, you said you needed to do the main projects about the houses right away. I'll tell you right after the flood, in the first ten days, the Department of Construction in agreement with the Faculty of Architecture and Construction, they've done projects, type projects, they've done them for free. So these are type houses 60, 80 and 100 squares and they're typical from the ground up. They'll be delivered to local self-government, and that's something that's already been prepared, and now we're just waiting for us to start working.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4428	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The People's Messenger Djordje Milicevic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Slobodan Gvozdenovic. Here you go, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4429	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, the honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say first of all, there is much to say, but I want to say when it comes to the very report that we are talking about today, it is actually a set of activities, a sublimation of all the activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, each ministry within the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the general public sector, so the sublimation of all the activities undertaken during a difficult elemental accident that happened during May, unfortunately, to the citizens of Serbia. Looking at this report, we can clearly see one determination, determination, one clear, determined and committed approach to the government when it comes to elemental disasters. It is clear that the government was best able to do the job at a time when it was a matter of dealing with elementary disasters. It was quick to react, resolutely, to fight for every human life, to fight for every living object, to preserve every roof over his head, to preserve every house. What is fundamentally important, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, every ministry within the government of the Republic of Serbia was with its people when it was most needed, when it was very difficult. There is no government of the Republic of Serbia on this matter to conceal anything and there is no government of the Republic of Serbia on this matter absolutely nothing to be ashamed of and prepared for an open discussion by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and today confirms, starting a debate on this extremely important report and also an important and important legislative proposal. There's absolutely no place for politicization here, because it just wouldn't be correct. Everything that was possible was done, everything that was possible, best possible at the given moment in accordance with the law. This is a confirmation that the representatives of the EU, as well as representatives of the UN, seem to have spoken to me. One dimension, if there is a criminal responsibility for individuals in the flood defence chain, should be dealt with by competent authorities and competent institutions. We are talking here today about an important document, which is a report and this report is a set of activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, each ministry within the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as regards the parliamentary club, it is very acceptable for us, it is clear, precise, shows the determination and determination of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and does not represent, I would say, a political declaration. On the other hand, we are talking about a very important, important legislative proposal that creates a legal framework to speed up procedures in order to move towards the necessary reconstruction and recovery. If you look at this report, I'd say three key segments are three key activities that I would point out this time. The first – protecting and saving the endangered population, the second – the collection and distribution of humanitarian aid, the third – one very successful coordination in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the public sector, the departments, all those who participated in the defence of floods and natural disasters. It is almost impossible at this time to single out any ministry within the government of the Republic of Serbia. Each ministry, in accordance with its capabilities, has done its best. What I would like to say and what is extremely evident when it comes to the elemental disaster that has hit Serbia this year, definitely Serbia is as strong as it is unique, and Serbia is the strongest when it is the most unique, when it is the most complex and when there is one general and complete solidarity. Of course, as MPs and as citizens of Serbia, we owe above all one professionality, courage to representatives of the Serbian Army, representatives of the Ministry of Defence, representatives of the Ministry of Defence and representatives of the Emergency Sector. What's most important right now, so we have a report, we have a full damage assessment, all relevant data. The most important thing now is that the government has a clear dynamic, the government has a clear vision and a clear plan and this is also what this debate today is talking about. It is important for citizens to return to the shortest period of time what nature has taken away from them and that all citizens get their roof over their heads by winter. Of course it's important, and we'll agree fully with the vice president, it's important that this reconstruction be quick, it's important that it be made clear, it's important that the reconstruction is transparent. In this context, we fully support the formation of an office that will coordinate, which will organise and in some ways control all activities that are related to reconstruction and recovery. It is precisely because of this transparency and the public that it is good for the head of this office to be someone from the NGO sector and that someone from the NGO sector is managing these funds right now. There is a big job ahead of us and the law we are talking about today very clearly confirms the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to start rebuilding and resuscitating as soon as possible and to complete reconstruction and recovery in a shorter period of time. I come from Kolubara County and the city of Valjev. All five municipalities of the Kolubar district and the City of Valjevo unfortunately felt the negative effects and consequences of the elemental accident. There is also great damage on residential buildings and on houses, on road infrastructure, along the Kolubara River. There's also great damage in the area of economy, agriculture. What I want to do today, first of all as a citizen of Valjev, to commend the Government, to the ministers who are not with us today, but who have indeed shown one commitment during the elementary accident when it comes to the City of Valjevo and the citizens of Valjev and Minister of Gasic, and Minister Stefanovic who at one difficult moment were with the City of Valjevo and were with the citizens of Valjev. I am convinced that such commitment, determination, commitment will be in the next period of time when it comes to restoration and recovery itself. Mr. Marić, and with this I want to finish, once after visiting Valjevo said – Valjevo is a very good and well-established city. That's not the result of just two or three years ago. It's been a long time since you've invested in the Kolubara River, but an elemental accident is something you can't fully predict, and you can't control. Once again, thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the ministries within the government of the Republic of Serbia, above all as a citizen of Valjev for one commitment, determination, commitment and, of course, that we will support both the report and the legislative proposal as a parliamentary club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4430	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The People's MP Slobodan Gvozdenovic has the word, and let the People's Parliament of Suzanne Spasojevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4431	Thank you. Dear MPs, the Honorable Chairman, the honourable minister, also come as my previous speaker and counterpart, Mr Milicevic, from the Colulbar region. It is known that the Colubary End, in fact, the city of Valjevo, was the first to strike on that fateful night of May 13th. As far as the municipalities of the Kolubara district are concerned, it is unequivocal that the Ub municipality was the most injured. Now I'm going to give you some data from 30.06 that you may not have known, which is what the public should know, which is that about 1,500 housing in that municipality is flooded, that the damage of 626 million and 760 thousand, that ten housing facilities are flooded, that the damage is about 14 million, that 1,306 auxiliary facilities are flooded, public buildings are flooded, and that the business facilities are 65 where the damages are also being measured in millions. What's characteristic of Ub municipality is that the president of the municipality reacted lightningly and quickly put the system under control, in fact instantly. What the public needs to know is that there are three buildings under construction for which local permits have been issued, and projects are waiting to be issued. The Ministry of Construction Transport of Infrastructure has been sent questionnaires with data on collapsed housing that are banned from housing by the inspection body. As for livestock damage, the municipality itself suffered damages of 15 million and 915 thousand, and the damage caused by machinery and agricultural land and production is measured by hundreds of millions. It amounts to over 600 million, namely 641 million and 634 thousand dinars. In the Ub municipality, we had an example of a very rapid response, the competence of their crisis headquarters, and in fact all the praise for the president of the municipality and for the headquarters he ran. As far as Valyev himself is concerned, the problem in Valyev is very different. I said that Valjevo was hit on May 13th and that, in fact, Kolubara had done the first damage in Valjev, and above all in built and regulated water flow of the Kolubara River through the city itself, which was certainly the most expensive investment in the city since the early 1980s. This raises the question of the problems of the Kolubara River, and I would like the public to be familiar with it. In fact, the problem relates to the construction of a master pipeline for the management and use of a multi-purpose hydro supply if it is entrusted to the Public Enterprise "Stubo-Rovni" from Valjev. From the very beginning, it entered into the realization of this master pipeline, without the law of the prescribed documentation. Namely, the realisation of the project itself was entrusted to the public company "Stubo-Rovni", and it went through a European delegation where the Public Enterprise "Stubo-Rovni" was designated both as a user and as an investor. While the public procurement process entrusted the work of the pipeline to the company "Unity" from Sevojn. I won't be bothering you with this problem for a long time, the essence of the matter is that the contractor who started the job in 22.11.2012 is being introduced into a business based on the permission to perform the works issued by the Resort Ministry without having solved the property legal relations. This is proof of the letter of the Public Enterprise "Collubar" which runs the "Stubo-Rovni" sent to the "Serbian" on 06.08.2013, where the "Serbian" is required to establish the right of office to build, or regulate property-legal relations. So, ten months after the introduction of the contractors into the business. The Master’s pipeline project itself provides for the setting of water pipes in the middle of the left forland, i.e. the major trough of the Kolubara River that goes through the city itself, where water conditions provide that after the works carried out, the contractor returns the work to its original state. During the performance of the works, the performer finds that it is already in the middle of the left ventricle, imagine, a high voltage cable that has not been identified in the cataster of underground installations and investors and performer at that moment on its own, and without obtaining permission from the “Serbian” pipeline route to move and move closer to the minor corridor of the Kolubara River, questioning its stability and thus directly endangering the regulated water flow of the Kolubara River. In order not to bother the public further with the details, since I am sure that the resolution ministry is familiar with these things, what is symptomatic of the story itself is that knowing the general situation with the carrying out of works that are not in line with the project documentation, the district emergency headquarters at the session held on 11 March this year concludes that the flood defence system in the Kolubar district territory is not satisfactory. So, after the first major rainfall of 24 April of this year, and the floods created, the poor quality of the works carried out comes out completely in the light of the damage to the left-hand trough of the Kolubara River, and in the area of the work. The district emergency headquarters re-sessioned on April 29th, this year, draws a new conclusion that at point 6 requires the Republic's water inspector to carry out inspection surveillance in the area of the work, which has led to damage to the left-wing trough of the Kolubara River, which is jeopardising the city's flood defence system. After that, it's known what happened on May 13th. After all, I would not bother the public, and the truth does, all of these things, it is clear that it has been repeatedly warned that the works in the Kolubara River trough, carried out in the above described way, are jeopardising the city's defence system, and therefore the security of citizens. Therefore, the real question may be what further to the public company Stubo-Rovni and whether local self-government, in this case as the largest co-founder, as Valjevo participates 58% in the establishment of the public company Stubo-Rovni, is capable of continuing to run such a system. In this whole story, it is clear that there has been no good work of the Valjevo Emergency Station, that the city of Valjevo did not do everything right, so the question is, who is responsible? Of course, whoever was in charge of the headquarters is responsible, or the mayor. And, indeed, perhaps, when it comes to Valjevo, if Mayor Terzic loves Valjevo, it might be best to be mayor of another city. As far as the public company Stubo-Rovni is concerned, there are gaps here. First of all, their engineers didn't do anything that when they saw the shortcomings in the master's pipeline itself, and in the city center, they didn't, they didn't. In fact, they don't seem to do anything, they don't design, they don't control, and that's why they're getting huge salaries. The damage calculated on the Kolubara riverbed is about 5m euros, and I am sure that the city is not able to compensate and remove the damage at this time. Who's going to pay for the damage caused by a master's pipeline? Is the insurance company or the resecuritisation company? We'll see. In any case, you see an example of a municipality in Kolubara County, Ub municipality, where the president of the municipality reacts with lightning, where he puts everything quickly under control and Valjeva where the same thesis is repeatedly repeated and reports that everything has been done well, and in fact the damage is enormous in the city itself and in that stream, i.e. the trough of the Kolubara River, which has been peppered by the expensive investment. So I'd like to ask the minister in charge to comment on all this happening with the master's pipeline or perhaps some other opportunity to get a clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4432	Thank you, Dr. Ironovich. The word is by Deputy Prime Minister Prof. Zorana Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4433	I think there's work to be done for some other organs, not just the Department of Civil Engineering. So you'll get complete information when things are completely examined.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4434	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The People's Messenger, Susana Spasojevic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Bojanić. Here you go, Mrs. Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4435	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, representatives of the government, today we all agreed that Serbia was hit by a disaster of dramatic proportions. From the report ahead, we see that the damages and losses to floods and slides are greater than 1.5 billion euros. The reports cover all sectors, both institutions and infrastructures and production and agriculture and housing and agricultural facilities. When a country already in crisis, both economic and economic, is hit by an even greater crisis in the face of major natural disasters, it is inevitable that this leads to even greater poverty both in the country and in the citizens. People were destroyed both houses and furniture, dead cattle, multi-annual plantings, and if you take into account the damage of the lost gain, then it takes a very big situation. It is clear and understandable that citizens who are such an existential problem are nervous and impatient and want their problem solved as soon as possible, as early as possible, overnight. At the time of the May flood, the government made a huge effort to prevent and mitigate this elemental disaster and to pass with as little consequence as possible by caring for human lives and then property. Citizens must be assured that the government is still there for them, that the government will do everything to make sure that all those who have lost their roof over their heads get their homes by winter or get the funds to resuscitate their houses. Also, damage will be compensated for all those who have suffered losses in agricultural production or in other areas. The adoption of a bill on the removal of floods in the Republic of Serbia is the first step towards normalising life in floods and slides in endangered areas. It is important that by the autumn, as the minister said, housing facilities are repaired, but it is important that schools be repaired in order for children to start on time, to repair travel infrastructure to the extent that life is normalized, but also to repair health homes, especially in those places that are far from larger health centers, because it is really difficult for old, sick, pregnant women to get both physical and financial efforts, because of the treatment they travel to other cities. Of course, the most important thing is not to be left behind, not to be forgotten, and not to be hungry. It is important that aid is not granted on the principle of privileged or less popular and therefore this transparency that the law provides for in the allocation of funds is extremely good. The effects of floods and slides in the Smederevski region, where I come from, are almost as similar as in other floods affected and if this has not been sent to the media. The city emergency headquarters in Smederev submitted a report showing that the recent floods caused damages of 484 million dinars. Of which, the biggest damage to agricultural land, production and livestock, 197 million dinars, is the greater damage to both infrastructure and housing. Since Smederevo was not covered by this law in Article 1, we have submitted an amendment and we thank both the Government and you, Madam Minister, for having observed the suggestion and what this member will be extended and what will be covered by all the municipalities and all the cities that are damaged in these floods. I must say that the reaction of the competent republican and local authorities in Smederev was both timely and meaningful, that both the firemen and the police had responded in time and that we had avoided what was most important, that there were no human casualties, because everything else could be compensated, only human life did not. Now that the floods are behind us, we have an obligation to normalize life in flooded ice-skating areas. Local self-government won't be able to solve the effects of floods and slides on their own. You know the state of the local budgets, and that is why all eyes are against the government and the state, that immediately after the adoption of this law, the states will start to realise, that is, to carry out activities in recovery and adaptation. Recovering the consequences at all levels and in all areas is the first thing to be done, and then it is necessary to work on informing and educating citizens when there are elementary disasters what to do and what to do after elementary disasters. We saw that some lives were lost because the citizens wouldn't listen to the authorities and leave their homes. We need to educate the citizens and about what non-planned and wild construction is in the vicinity of the rivers and how much it has affected that the consequences of this disaster are even greater and what are the advantages when you have an object built in accordance with the plan's document, an object built in accordance with the building permit, for which the use of the permit has been granted and which is recognised. It is also very important to educate citizens about the benefits and necessity of insurance and their assets and machinery and agricultural areas and production. In developed countries, more than 90% of production is secured, while in Serbia it is only 2%, so that in developed countries it is not affected by the flood by countries, but rather by insurance companies. Anything bad that happens with it brings consequences, but it also brings the opportunity to learn many lessons from it. In these May floods, we've seen how human we are and how solid we are. We've also seen how ready we are to organize ourselves, but most importantly, we've seen in these troubles that young people were the first ones to express their willingness to engage and help wherever they needed to be. That is why the energy, the desire, and the will of young people to help should be organized and guided. The proposal for this law provides for opportunities to organise work actions. Yesterday we heard on the Committee that it was a proposal from the Ministry of Sports and Youth and we are really glad that you included it in the law, because it was something that made Serbia recognizable. From everything that's happened, we need to learn that it is necessary to organise and work and strengthen civil protection and the Emergency Sector. The fact is, it's impossible to predict everything that's happening around us and with us, but we have to prepare for these consequences to be as small as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4436	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4437	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have been having quite a fair and valuable debate all day, and I don't want to owe it to you, and to those colleagues behind me who would like to say something and complete this day. First of all, I want to say that the report on the elemental disaster, the flood that hit the Republic of Serbia is comprehensive, exhausted, with all the measures that have been taken and taken to save us at the moment when we have been hit by a fundamental disaster, all the ministries and all the services that have been tasked with reacting at that moment and the defenses above all threatened human lives and defenses threatened settlements. The report details what and what actions have been carried out in each of the ministries of the Republic of Serbia, as well as in the Republic of Serbia, and public enterprises and institutions. The report shows that disaster situations are very catastrophic, such as have not hit this area, not only the Republic of Serbia, in the last sure hundreds of years. Unfortunately, despite all the measures taken, what's most tragic, we had 57 human casualties and material damage, which is approximately 1.5 billion euros. On the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, we have shown one conclusion that part of this report should have been the part of eight cities that had the same catastrophic situation a month before that, and that's the April flood. The colleague Marija Jevdić said a lot from the position of the town of Kraljev, since the town of Kraljevo, on the one hand when you look, is nice to live on three rivers, but when you have such a catastrophic accident, you have an accident that a month before this great disaster occurs from the south, and after a month and from the west. To this day we know that some travel routes, such as Uste-Student-Invadnica, are not working today and that this is another detail that would show that these are damages, it seems to me, perhaps even greater than these 1.5 billion, if we haven't covered them, and I don't think we have. As something that is normal and as a normal trail of such a report, it is a bill to remove the consequences of floods in the Republic of Serbia. The main motive for the adoption of this law is to make life more normal in flooded areas and areas that are threatened by slides more urgent. Also, in order not to repeat, what I find quite correct in this bill, that is what the Ministerate said, that the state will do in that part of the state, and that local self-government and the province have certain powers. And that's a lot of talk from colleague Marija Jevdzic, so you wouldn't repeat yourself. The city of Kraljevo has already taken concrete measures for all of them, which is somewhere around 470 houses that have been threatened in this second flood wave, we have provided certain resources and taken concrete measures, not waiting for what will be the state. What is most important and I want to say hello, since the city of Kraljevo survived a disaster four years ago, it is the establishment of an office and that the office will take care of all receipts and donations and we will have regular three-month, monthly reports of both local self-government towards the office and offices towards the government and the National Assembly. I hope we can discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4438	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Latkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4439	Dear President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today we are discussing an extremely important draft law on the removal of the consequences of floods in the Republic of Serbia and the Report on measures taken during the course of the elemental disaster. The adoption of this bill is, you will agree, extremely necessary to eliminate the effects of floods as soon as possible and to help our citizens, farmers and agriculture recover as soon as possible. That is why I will begin by pointing out that the SPS parliamentary group will support the bill and report, in order to help solve this extremely large problem that hit us during the May floods. The importance of the law is understood precisely because we Sreme MPs have witnessed the flood. Accordingly, I would like to introduce you to the activities we have taken to prevent the spill of the Sava River in the town of Sremska Mitrovica and the municipalities of Šid, Rum and Pećinci. Unfavourable weather opportunities in April also affected the activation of emergency headquarters that continued their activities during the May floods. I would point out that all the responsible persons involved in the work of emergency headquarters or other activities are related to the defence of high water, such as. Evacuation and care of the endangered population, security and distribution of meals, health and social protection of the population and others, have shown maximum seriousness in the work and a positive attitude towards their duties, discipline and respect for the management line. On a daily basis, information and analysis of the situation have been collected about 160km of long protective distress in the part of the Sava stream through the Sremski District. In anticipation of the trend of water growth, the dikes in places that were critical of our defensive dikes in Sremska Raca, Bosut, in the town of Sremska Mitrovica, then in the villages of Klenak and Hrtkovci in the Romanian municipality, and Kupino and Ašanja in the cave municipality. I would especially point out that these timely actions were carried out following a public call by the Republic Emergency Staff, by day-to-night work on thousands of volunteers from the town of Sremska Mitrovica and other cities of Sremica, Vojvodina and Serbia, with the expertise and involvement of people and the machinery of water companies from Sremska Mitrovica, Sapac, Zemun and Novi Sad. The number of volunteers in the town of Sremska Mitrovica is impossible to determine correctly, but it is assumed that at the time of the defense, at least 10,000 volunteers were engaged in various old, educational and professional structures. According to them, citizens of Sremska Mitrovica feel great gratitude for everything they have done for their safety and security in the city. I would point out that for these actions of JP "Vode Vojvodina", under orders of the Regional Emergency Staff, it provided over a million and 200,000 pieces of sacks of different size, while about 15,000 cubic metres of sand were spent on filling them. In this venture, united by the spirit of solidarity for the social well-being, it can certainly be called the widest manifestation of Serbia's citizens' Assembly in a unique effort to achieve the common good, in this case defence against the threatening floods of the Sava River. During the threat of floods, the city of Sremska Mitrovica was threatened to a significant extent. Sava's leadership at Sremska Mitrovica on May 17th exceeded the level of protection line defence, threatening to overcome the so-called. 100-year-old water, which happened at one point. The water level has reached an 880-centimetre angle...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4440	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4441	I'm sorry, I just need to finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4442	Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4443	... 880 centimetres of water spill is prevented by sacks placed at a height of one metre and a length of 17 kilometers. I also feel the need to express great gratitude as a health care worker to my fellow doctors, nurses, technicians, drivers of emergency care and health workers on self-absorbed work and sacrifice in difficult weather conditions for our city. In the end, I will point out once again that the SPS parliamentary group will support the bill's proposal and the report on the elemental disaster, so that the consequences of the floods that hit the Republic of Serbia are resolved as soon as possible. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4444	The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4445	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps the tragedy of this accident and its proportions is most said by the death toll, 51 victims are a huge number, not counting one person missing, half of them are killed by drowning, the other half by natural causes, so a severe critical event that has life-threatening that person. It best speaks of how impossible it was to predict what would happen, for everyone would certainly do something on an individual's agenda to keep his head. Help arrived on time or not, instinct would force a man to save himself from being threatened directly. So, it's relatively cataclysmic, and that's what the other data in the report, which judge that it's meaningful, that it's good, that it shows the works of those services and those organisations that directly participated in this. Unfortunately, there are no sign of a group of volunteers who were a thousand and whose merits are no less than what the soldiers did, than what was done by seven to nine thousand militias, including firefighters and others, during each working day, and especially in the days in which cataclysm was the hottest, the first three or four days. Later, all showed a relative responsibility to what the state had imposed on them, as well as to their personal sense of responsibility, where volunteers came first. What do I want and why do I single out this kind of exposure? I single it out because of the importance of the service shown here in a relatively modest and decent number of pages, if that's how it's measured. At the same time, it shows how much health care has been involved since the very beginning. By respecting the government's decision, the Minister ordered all health institutions to immediately change the working regime, introduce continuous 24-hour duty in affected areas, form mobile teams and include relevant health institutions to start, from the Batuta or the City Public Health Institute, monitor the epidemiological and hygiene situation on the ground, to make microbiological reports, to carry out regular and extraordinary sanitary checks and controls. The content of this Report, which we have in front of us, shows that much has been done, was done with the help of, above all, Belgrade health institutions, but also a large number of health institutions and workers and associates in the plan that came from the interior and were guests of the affected municipalities. So they all worked, worked a lot, and worked responsibly. Therefore, it is no surprise that, in the draft law, a special member in this law leaves or gives the right to the Minister to, on a proposal from the Institute of Public Health, a leading preventive institution, have the effect of declaring that the Government declares the health situation in a precisely defined area, precisely defined by municipalities, in a precisely defined proportion, that it has the powers which the minister has now used in the right way, the ministry, together with the Government, therefore acting unanimously in that segment. We all had military activity, police activity, volunteer activity, citizen activity in the first place. We have not seen excessively in television contributions to the activities of health workers, who were at each of the places of mobilization, at 160 or more points, in each of the places where those who took care of 32,000 or 33,000 evacuees came to spend the first, second or the next night, and then to be accompanied by those and schools that remained to work both new school facilities and new institutions and other institutions where food preparation was carried out, etc. The Batut has prepared specific instructions on how to behave in risky epidemics, alimentary toxins, how to treat the population with regard to the use of food, how to use food on gigs, on markets, where it came from, etc. A very large number of useful procedures and actions in which the health system has proved to be stalking, so that it can recognize the actuality of the moment and adequately respond to it. So in this bill, it's given a significant place and the right to participate in, God forbid, repeated situations of this type, but at the same time to realize that this is not all over, that during the period of renewal, smaller or larger cataclysmic events, smaller or greater risky encounters with situations on the ground during their recovery of the found. For example, 300 tons of food or dead animals had to be evicted. It's another problem that doesn't concern strictly health supervision, but sanitary veterinary supervision is very important here, etc. Many things are still waiting for us during the renewal period, and the mechanisms to do so, that the government controls, implements, organises, through its plan, which, together with the Office, which makes a proposal, implements it according to local self-government, is a legally regulated mechanism of the fastest possible functioning. We really don't have any alternative, or have our own life experience about it, except for the model that we've long since rejected, so on. Civil protection, where every local community knew who was responsible for, who would evacuate, by name and last name, what anyone would do in such situations. I've had enough years and I've been a participant of such practice-based behavioral manners myself, of course he'll think about who needs to think, that maybe the contents of our programs in something change, that we try to really prepare our citizens in time that we don't know when, but theoretically, it can happen again, maybe too quickly, and we'd all like it never to happen again, to anyone in the region, or in the world. We are witnessing that cataclysmic events are truly unpredictable, possibly and very destructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4446	Thank you, Professor. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4447	The respected chairman, respected ministers, co-workers and colleagues, came to an era of economic crisis. We certainly couldn't influence that, but there are some things that both this Assembly and the Government and our public need to know. I come from Koceljeva, the first municipality with Valjevo to be hit by floods and the first municipality the prime minister visited, given the scale of the flood that took place in Koceljeva. Speaking of the Prime Minister, let me also mention the entire government, ministers, the president of the country that came in later, so it was one big moral and realistic support for those moments when the flood began, when we were not yet prepared for all the challenges, practically to solve it in the right way. There's something here nobody mentioned, and I think it's very important, which is 2010. In 2010, all the waterways and all the rivers belonged to the Republic. In 2010, a cross-section is being made, so part of the river is declared state, and the waterways remain with municipalities without any solution or financial support to local self-government, so it is one big problem that has accumulated to this day. When we look at the damage to the municipality of Kocelev, they're big. But we got out of harm's way, but we didn't have any losses or injured people, which I think is a big gain. One more thing I would say, although counterpart Zoran Zivkovic left, he said something he read from the press and where something was said in a certain press that the mini freeway was at Koceljeva and that an explosion in Obrenovac was heard and that Obrenovac was immediately flooded. This is absolutely not true, nor is it mined, nor does water travel at the speed of sound, but the responsible ones who have made certain decisions have also made such decisions to save Kocelev, without affecting the citizens of Obrenovac or anyone downriver. What the citizens of Koceljev expect, it is a quick reaction to the construction of a bridge on the state road of first row and to the resolution of certain local bridges that are very important for the lives of these citizens, because there are two local bridges in the village of Ljutice and in the village of Družetić, where practically citizens visit 20 and 30 kilometers more than they should really go to their homes, or to their plots. So I'm simply asking, even though I said so, and she accepted it in one satisfactory way, to try to do it as soon as possible, at least as far as that part is concerned, that she has a certain priority. Furthermore, traffic has been moved through the city's tissue, the streets are being destroyed. I don't think there's any solution but that's how it's done, but at least let's speed it up because I think it's good for this country's economy. As far as the law is concerned, I'll be brief. It is limited to a year, so it must be quickly realized. I expect that underlegal acts will quickly be passed, that we will respond quickly and that the speed and efficiency for the implementation of this law also means the success of the flood resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4448	The word has a People's MP, Obrad Isailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4449	The esteemed chairman, lady minister, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, the report on the elemental disaster, the flood that hit the Republic of Serbia and the measures taken to rescue and defend threatened targets from the floods, which the government delivered to the National Assembly, is very exhausted. Abounds with details and clearly points to all important elements, i.e. clearly describes the chronology of events before the elemental accident and for one period after. Since I am a National MP from Obrenovac, I believe it is my obligation for the people of Obrenovac municipality who suffered the most from the flood, to learn about the part of the report relating to the work of the municipality's emergency headquarters in Obrenovac. Before that, I have an obligation to express my gratitude on behalf of the people of Obrenovac to Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, as well as to the entire government for everything they have done. I thank the MUP, particularly Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic for his outstanding commitment and sacrifice to help the endangered population, as well as the defence ministry headed by Minister Gasic. Ministers Nebojsa Stefanovic and Bratislava Gasic were with the people at the most difficult times all the time and directly helped the most vulnerable, not leading the cameramen behind them. Many of them didn't even recognize them in those moments. Without the help of the police and the Obrenovac army, there would be a much greater disaster. Thank you and the Ministry of Health for everything that's been done, not to cause mass epidemics and infectious diseases. I appeal to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs to help train the Gerontology Centre in Obrenovac as soon as possible to get 300 users back. The Gerontological Centre has 340 users and 143 employees. To return to the part of the report that I am obliged to quote to the inhabitants of the Obrenovac. I quote – there has been a failure of municipal headquarters for emergency situations in Obrenovac, which did not start a partial evacuation in time, and by escalating events and full evacuation. The adoption of a complete evacuation order should immediately organise and immediately inform the population through sirens and media and in an improvised way that should have been developed in the evacuation plan, which the municipality should have prepared and brought. It's a finished quote. Citizens of the Obrenovac municipality experienced a major disaster. I expect that the responsibility of each individual in the municipal headquarters for emergency situations in Obrenovac whose work has been inadmissible. I expect the prime minister and the government to be speedy and efficient in relieving the effects of the flood. At the same time, I ask the citizens for patience, reasonable behavior and trust in the government and Prime Minister Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4450	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4451	Dear Chairman, I will begin my exhibition with one memory in 2011 when the Anti-Corruption Council, chaired by Verica Barac, presented one terrible piece of information in the use of anti-urban missile procurement. Then a certain purchase was made, someone reported that we were going to buy 15,000 anti-building missiles, inflating the price of one of the anti-building missiles. We bought about 3,000 anti-urban missiles, and the state was damaged by about 8.5m euros. Of course, now that I'm saying this, so this isn't what I said, or anyone from the SNS, it was then announced by the Anti-Corruption Council. I sincerely hope that what I just said, that I am not risking this on the other hand that someone throws me that I'm a piece of junk, like a fellow Martinovic who loves us a lot to learn about good behavior threw it for, of course, the truth I'm saying this because in the media in a very inappropriate way conveyed what really happened here during the day. Why am I saying all this? We're being accused here today that maybe the state didn't react better during this disaster that hit us about the floods. Someone asked in about two days' time that the state would make all the bed end of the river, that in about two days' time we would dig up all the ditches, the bars and whatever it took, to clean up, of course, in two days' time, all of our water streams, and at least here in this case that I've stated about the anti-urban rockets, and that's, of course, the elemental accident and the protection in some way, not some, but certainly, we see the state systematically being robbed here and that actually someone hadn't kept track of what could happen to us for years. Today, one of us is asking us to drain dry dreno. Of course they have to get the funds, but for years, and I've been asking you here, Mrs. Mihajlovic, since I read this report very carefully, I'm sorry there's no one from the MUP, let's say, which is not Mr. Stefanovic here, but my question is concrete. All that we have read – will anyone answer, especially in local self-government? Because huge funds were being allocated to local self-governments to protect against natural disasters, those assets, who know where they went, weren't invested where they were supposed to be invested, and that's why we've had a complete collapse today. We are, unfortunately, a pretty defenseless country today from the elemental disasters. They're waiting for us, God forbid, and the fires during the summer, they're waiting for us to flood again. The terrible number we need for some minimum protection, and I really don't know how we're going to do it, especially because the state has been systematically robbed in the worst possible way through these funds that have been allocated to the elemental disasters. As for the very law on the restoration of the country, it is something that is necessary, which came from this situation that has hit us. Of course, I have some questions here. The law is usually good, I have to commend the government for this law, but I just have some questions I'd like to get an answer to. It is related to the public procurement system, in particular Article 16 which allows for the application of the second procurement procedure. I understand that sometimes something urgent has to be obtained, but I'm the deadline left here in this first procedure, it's 10 days. I think it's something that's quite enough to go into another procedure. You know, there's a very unorthodox situation where we have direct arrangements and I'm very afraid of it, although I can see that there's a very rigid and very high-quality control here, and every public procurement has to be on the office site. But simply, the snake was bitten and the lizard was afraid. In this country there are these direct contracts, there have been many things happening here and there, so I'd like you to give us an answer, to simply explain to us whether this control is really going to be adequate and certainly whether or not it's going to be applied in any way, or what it's going to be more. I'm afraid we can get into a situation where this second procedure is more frequently applied than this first one. Also, I'd like to ask you about your actions. This is an extremely good thing and I am glad that it is defined here that persons who are primarily unemployed, socially endangered, young, etc. will have priority, especially in flood-affected areas, will have the opportunity to work in these public works, i.e. on work activities. There is one word, or syntagma where it is said – a person in the category of the most employable. I'd like you to explain a little bit how it's going to be interpreted, which means a person who's harder to employ. It'd be good to make that a little more specific. Otherwise, I don't like the legal provisions where such broad interpretations are left, because we've seen it in the past that it's always been deliberately left out so wide that it can be interpreted to carry out various abuses, so I'd just like it to be a little more specific. Also, what I'm afraid might be one problem, I hope it won't be, and that's in Article 41. It says – solutions to the type and level of aid are made by the competent authority of the local self-government unit on the basis of criteria established by the state defence programme. It's all very nice, but we've heard from even Prime Minister Vukic himself that in these first estimates that came about damages in some local governments, we've obviously had some estimates that were deliberately high. Honestly, I'm very afraid of these people by local self-government because we've rarely been able to witness that there's been various frauds, or that someone tends to blow up the price a little, and then get extra money, so that's how it splits. I'd really like to have that control here and how rigid it is, because this is about all of us, about our lives. I would especially hate to have someone catch someone stealing a country in such a difficult situation, and we've had examples, we've also given examples of kings, etc., where we've had an earthquake situation, so look what happened, that we've determined that there are abuses in rebuilding houses. In the end, I'm tied up in surveillance. Honestly, it's good that your ministry will be responsible, but I think the Ministry of Agriculture should have entered the very system of surveillance because we have a lot of agricultural land that's completely damaged, that's devastated, that's ruined, and I don't think it would be bad for them to get into that surveillance system, too. And, of course, about that, I would ask Mrs. Kori Udovici, I believe she is watching this transfer, since the Ministry Act found that the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government is the one most responsible for overseeing the spending of funds in local self-government, that they are very rigid here, and that they measure every dinar where he went and where he was spent. I hope that something like this will never happen to us again, but given that the climate is changing and that today we have an incredible elemental disaster that has hit our capital and every day we have terrible showers and the city, and so on, I think we have to make a much better system of protection than the elemental disasters. I agree that funds are a big problem, but you know what, we don't have another state, we have to protect this one. I hope this government manages to get funds through these donor dinners, too. Anyway, we have a very difficult job ahead of us, and this system through this law that's being established here, and especially about the work and the public works, I hope it'll be efficient enough and the whole state will respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4452	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The word is by Deputy Prime Minister Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4453	Thank you. First of all, the report that the government provided and your question whether someone would answer when they were fully aware that there was a gap in the earlier period, and about the money that local self-government had at their disposal, and they didn't use it for what they were supposed to use it for. I think that the report is just the foundation and one of the documents that is the basis to determine the responsibility, because until we have a name and a last name responsible, then it can happen to us that sometimes, even in the future, that kind of thing happens again. Just because this government has self-initiatedly given a report like this, it is quite clear that we have no intention of leaving things aside and that it will all have its name and name. When you talk about public procurement and this other procedure, it will at least be used. It's only in exceptional situations, given all the resolutions that now that you look at what needs to be covered by the law and what we're going to do in the next two months, we have to have that possibility. What is absolutely certain is the open procedure of the Public Procurement Act, only with a shortened time procedure. The public works you mentioned, and regarding the more difficult employees, so according to the current one, that term is set out in the current Labour Act. It refers to women, single mothers, people with disabilities, so that's the category of people who certainly have the right and should have the right to participate in such works. When you talk about local self-government and whether they will spend more or simply give information about their damage that is more than real, nothing can be done first until the government brings in a state-run reconstruction program, which will be in the next seven days hopefully adopted. Any local self-government and any thing that will be restored will pass the verification. The government's office of verification is carrying out along with experts from its own ministries. It's another way to control everything that's going to be done. Of course, in the sense that when you talk about agriculture, of course their inspection services will be directly competent in what is their portfolio, as will our inspection services to be competent in the part where we talk about houses or road inspections when we talk about roads, railways, etc. I agree with you that the most important thing is that, besides having the law, having the office, having the system in place, control must be perhaps the most important part of everything we do in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4454	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has a folk letter, Marija Stevanović, and let the MP Biljana Ilic Stosic be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4455	The Honorable Chairman, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will be engineeringly brief and give a comment on this report, one suggestion and one proposal. The comment is next. Since I come from a flooded area, from Svilinc, I know very well that what was written in the report is only part of what the government was doing. So, thanks to all the ministers who helped, and knowing these others, I expect even more help in the coming period. But what's evident is that we really need this water law quickly and that together we need to make this joint flood defense plan, because we can't do partial work, individually for any municipality, but we need to observe these plums of river. Some MPs have already pointed out that, and I support their opinion. Maybe we should look at the experiences of countries like America or Canada, where water is such an important issue in the Army's intelligence, but then, about that, it's a matter of thought. The second thing, or that suggestion, is the following, given that the damages are huge, should we as MPs, see what they did and local self-government. So this isn't a political issue. If we take Svilajnac as an example and almost the entire Pomoravski district, but let's stay in the place from which I came, we had one human sacrifice, 80% of the city's settlement that was submerged, 2,000 households, 3000 objects, the damage of 19m euros. You'll admit it's a lot for such a poor country and a small town like this. The alarming of people is a misdemeanor. After everything that's happened, even some citizens' protests have been filed, criminal charges have been filed, but I really think the expert public should give its opinion on whether there have been any failures. I repeat that once again is not a political issue. If someone's wrong, they really need to answer, I don't know why we should be hiding behind certain functions right now, any of us. The same goes for not only Svilian, Parachin, Rekovac. I'm transferring citizens' opinions right now. Finally, thirdly, I am glad that Minister Mihajlovic is here because she will understand what I am talking about, and that is to use the ash from our thermal power plants to rebuild the country after the flood. I think there are some environmentalists, and there are economists who will also agree, because I'm going to set an example of our Morava Termo Power Plant from Svilinc. We currently have 4.5 million tons of ash that is our ballast. We pay for the construction of a tape where the ash is stored, we pay for maintenance, we pay for recycling, we pay different taxes. For Morava alone, which is 3.58% TENT's last year, the cost of ashes amounted to just over a million euros. Ashes are used everywhere in every developed country of the world as building material, used to build embankments, roads, and railways. With a team of professors from Belgrade's Faculty of Civil Engineering, I was already at the Railways. So building would be 50% cheaper. If we compare these EU countries where literally buyers are standing outside the thermal power plants with sacks to take the ashes, knowing what the characteristics of it are as building material and us, such a poor country that pays them to deposit ash, we pay for some materials more expensive, I don't know who's crazy here. It's my well-intentioned proposal and let's think about it. You know how many gravel or gravel exploits have now contributed to the riverbeds to create this chaos that they've made. Let's do something creative, hopefully we'll all benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4456	The word is a folk letter from Biljana Ilic Stosic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Vladan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4457	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, our great Ivo Andric, was able to say that every half-century, when a great occasion comes along, nothing unites people like a common accident. That's true, because then Serbia breathed with one soul in moments of unremembered disaster. One thing is certain that the previous years of prevention were better, that the state was determined, efficient, as it was in the days of time and after the flood the situation of national drama would have been far less. That's why I'm surprised by the dissonant tones heard from the opposition's ranks, even in this matter. Part of the responsibility was ours or we don't have to admit we're carrying ourselves as individuals. Look only at the nearest river or stream, they've long been turned into dumps. Building on geomechanically inadequate terrains, I don't even want to mention it. All this carelessness of the state, local self-government, the maternal relationship of all of us as individuals has been paid at the most terrible cost by the loss of human life and countless personal and family dramas. The dramas of people who are forced to start life over. They're people like all of us who torture to survive everyday life. Suddenly they faced the knowledge that they had nothing until that day, and then the water came and took everything away from them. The water slowly retreated, and we had a flood of problems and a flood of questions as to whether it had to happen to us like this. What more nature can surprise a society that didn't have the strength to predict, warn and prevent a catastrophic scenario that shouldn't happen to us at the beginning of the third millennium. We have to believe that the flood, along with all the accidents, has brought us something useful and usable, that it has brought us not only a reminder but also a message that this way neither can nor can be arranged, and that the system must never be so powerless before the verse of nature, which requires the human nature of the best quality that we all have convinced ourselves of. Citizens say they can't even imagine what would have happened to those poor, flooded people if we hadn't had these terrible moments of such a prime minister who simply, by the power of his personality, mobilized the entire state in defense. It's very difficult to talk about the disaster that hit us to find the right measure of words. That's why I'm quoting again our Nobel laureate who would say we were human in those days. I'm asking all citizens to keep that up, keep sending help to rebuild the floods. Each, even the smallest contribution, is significant, precious. I remind you once again, most flooded people believed there was nothing, and then the water came and took everything away from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4458	The People's Messenger Vladan Milosevic has the word, let the People's Messenger Velinka Tosic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4459	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, comes from a small municipality called Vladimirci and is located between Sapac and Obrenovac, which was also threatened by these floods. In particular, you should know that the Sava River runs through my municipality for 29 km. In that part, a rash was built that was brought down within 500 metres. The full law is based on close co-operation by the Office for Aid and Reconstruction in Flooded Areas and Local Self-Government. There's a problem here now. Some local self-governments did not manage well or did not have the capacity, or for any other reason did not do the jobs that should have been done by a certain deadline. In the end, they were paying the citizens. That's the case with the Vladimirci municipality. We're also affected by these floods, of course it didn't destroy the flood, it destroyed the city, but we're also the only municipality in the environment that didn't get the screening seeds due to unscheduled documentation. I don't want to bid on who's guilty, but the locals of Dragojevac, Proova, Beljina and other villages are certainly not guilty of that. Since it's a huge surface that's flooded, about 5,000 ha, this isn't a small problem. Something has failed in relation to local self-government – the competent ministry. In order not to repeat such things, there must be a system of control available to all citizens, so if it hides somewhere that citizens have someone to complain to and make a mistake can be removed. I'm saying this because the territory of the Vladimirs municipality is the worst agricultural activity, but also the road infrastructure, the electrical network, but also the housing and economic facilities within the agricultural land. That's why I call on the government representatives to visit the Vladimirs and see for themselves the extent of the damage our municipality has suffered. In the Vladimirs, it was not possible to see the means of information, because the municipal leadership at that time was not the best reaction, and it failed to interest the public in our accident. On this occasion, I would like to thank Mr. Velimir Ilic, who has arrived, saw our share of the accident and provided us with the help of 40,000 pieces of creeps and other MPs who, in accordance with their capabilities, have helped us to overcome this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4460	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4461	To answer the MP. You mentioned the Ministry of Agriculture and the distribution of seeds carried out during the previous period and the fact that your municipality did not receive seed. I ask you to bear in mind, that we have done everything possible to obtain the data we need, in order to define the seed in that municipality. Since your parents haven't answered our countless calls, we simply had to conclude the lists, but that doesn't mean that our producers won't get fuel in the area and they won't get fertilizer. So, after this distribution that was, we can say, at an extremely optimal time, that was done for other areas, we didn't have any data for your area, but now we've got them and you're going to get fertilizer and fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4462	The word is a folk letter from Velinka Tosic, and let the folk letter of Violeta Lutovac be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4463	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow citizens of Serbia, I come from Loznica and I want to transfer some of the situation that has hit us with these floods. On the occasion of an unremembered elemental unfavourable flood, which hit the town of Loznica, when it dropped 217 liters per m2 of atmospheric rainfall in the territory of the town of Loznica in just two days, representing an absolute historical maximum in terms of the quantity of rainfall since the measurement of the same. The city emergency headquarters responded in time. The most important thing of all is that we didn't have human victims. The state of emergency was introduced in 14.5 and was in effect until 23.5. Large rainfalls caused large rinks by the blue ones. The difficult situation was in the area of Loznica, Mali Zvornik, Krupanja and Ljubovija. The city emergency headquarters has reached co-operation with all relevant ministries. In the most difficult days, ministers Bratislav Gasic, Lazar Krstic, Kori Udovicki and Snezana Bogosavljević Boskovic and Mr Velimir Ilic visited the city. I really thank everyone. The damage is great, and it needs to be found that it can be tempered, if it can't be completely remedied. The damage is seen in the following: housing is estimated at around 660 million dinars, local infrastructure about 80 million dinars, local roads and travel facilities about 172 million dinars, commercial buildings about 127 million dinars, agriculture about 440 million dinars, distribution electricity system around 27 million dinars, waterflows of around 155 million dinars. The total damage is about 1.6 billion dinars, which is the size of the city's annual budget, Loznica. The town of Loznica is unable to solve the damage itself and expects assistance from all relevant factors. The sail caused great damage and left behind great desolation. The bridge on the river Jadar in Draginjac was destroyed, no longer for use, so the communication of the inhabitants of the Upper Adriatic towards the Loznica and the inhabitants of the Lower Adriatic towards the school, the infirmary, the church, the local community in Draginjac, as well as the properties on both sides of the river was blocked. A Ponton bridge is needed on the Jadar River in Draginjec. Mr. Velimir Ilic came to visit us and was on the spot and he really helped us with that. Access ramps have been made for the same, but we need the help of the state because the city is unable to pay all the costs of setting up and serving the bridge. It can only provide elementary logistics, which is nutrition, housing, oil. It is necessary to build a new bridge on the river Jadar, but for this city of Loznica there is no money, and here we expect the help of the state. The problem of the bridge is also in Gornji Trešnica, the problem of the road in Velika Reka, Krupanj, there are problems everywhere. We also have a number of environmental problems caused by rinks. One part is tied to the Zajač mine, or the Kostannik mine, where there was a dam shot and a fallout in the Korenita River, further in the Jadar River, then in Drin, etc. The problem is serious. We need an emergency recovery. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to take seriously the problems of our region, i.e. my neighborhood and the whole of the Mačvan County, and to provide us with relevant assistance. I must also point out that Loznica's flood wave met with two boats, one of which was incorrect, no sandbags, no boots, although it's not just with Loznica, more or less the situation is the same or similar in other cities, beside which rivers flow. I ask the competent authorities to examine the spending of money that has been allocated in the urban and municipal budget for these purposes, so that, in the event of a new elemental accident, they will be prepared and able to mitigate the consequences of the disaster. I want to thank all citizens of goodwill in Serbia and abroad who have sent great humanitarian aid to the password. Thank you all and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4464	Thank you. The word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4465	I want to thank the MPs who intervened and did a lot to see the consequences. I can tell you that I handed over the bridge projects. They are working intensively in Serbia's Roads, a projector's house, which has taken to do a new project to try to take out that middle pole that damaged the bridge, which broke the bridge and I think it will be over very soon, and Defence Minister Gasic has promised to end up around the installation of the Ponton Bridge and all this is being prepared. The general is in charge, I think Djurovic, to do it. So we expect it to be done very quickly. Therefore, the projects are being done and Mrs Mihajlovic is familiar. I've met her, and she'll get completely new projects revised, completed, and the work can begin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4466	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Violeta Lutovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4467	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, I will say very briefly in my presentation about the Report on elementary disasters that hit the Municipality of Varvarin, from which I come, as well as the measures taken and implemented, above all, in order to protect the population and remove the consequences of the elementary disasters. In fact, on the night between 14th and 15th of May, a water fight begins in the Municipality of Varvarin by first responding to a pump station that is the source of drinking water for the citizens of the Municipality of Barvarin. Thanks to the timely reaction of local self-government and public utility, water is protected from contamination, which is of great importance to the local municipality of Varvarin. The village of Donji Katun, a village mainly engaged in agriculture, was the first to die in the valley of the Kalenić River. On the side of the Pojata, actually on the lateral side, the Kalenić river quickly flooded agricultural cultures, where about 100 hectares died, primarily of wheat, corn and barley culture. In the valley of West Morava, about 150 acres of agricultural crops left us dead. The villages of Bosniaks and Mascara have been hit, but the biggest damage in the village of Obrež, where over 500 hectares of agricultural cultures have been flooded. It is not only damage to agricultural goods, but also to housing, business facilities, as well as infrastructure. I would also point out that the village of Obrež suffered great damage to the cattle stock, where 42,000 tow chickens were killed, which is about 90 kilos of food and also 60 plastics. I wouldn't tell you about how important this is for the largest village, which is the second largest village and where the population mainly deals with agriculture and livestock. I would like to thank the defence minister, Mr. Bratislava Gasic, who visited the most vulnerable village in the Municipality of Varvarin on 19 May, as well as the Republika Srpska Army, who actively participated in the process primarily of evacuating the population, and then in the process of decontamination, disinfection and deratiation of the flooded area. I would also mention that the Municipality of Varvarin and flooded villages were visited by MPs from the Committee on Agriculture. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the president of the Republic, also visited the most vulnerable town, the village of Obrež. At this time, construction materials for repairing damaged housing are donated, and house construction is under way by the Dragica Nikolic Foundation, also in Obrež and the most endangered family, the Zivkovic family. I would certainly like to thank all the people who participated in the implementation of humanitarian aid in the Municipality of Varvarin, and I would say that the SNS will support in the voting day of the Law on the elimination of the consequences of elementary disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4468	Thank you. The word has a national emissary of Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4469	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, also came from flooded areas, from the municipality of Trstenik. I'd like to put into short lines the situation that hit us. Namely, the first flood wave came from the Ljubin River, which threatened one of the two springs, the second flooded. Then came the flood of West Morava. The river reached its historic maximum, the bed broke into two places, and what the Ljubin River began, it ended. She completely flooded the spring. In this way, the Trieste municipality ran out of water for five days. A huge pawnage of JKSP "Comstan" and huge work, after five days water supply was established, well-washing, chlorination was carried out. I note this because for the municipality of Triestenik water supply is a very important item. Last year, we did local self-government to clean up two accumulation lakes and build a third. In this way water supply was solved, which is a decades-old problem in the municipality of Trstenik. These floods put the whole process at risk. So we're back on the same thing again, and we have a huge problem. We'll probably have it in the next period. The Institute "Jaroslav Černi" estimated the damage and what is most important for the municipality of Trstenik is the first store worth 27 million dinars. This time I express hope that the government will have an understanding and that the state will help solve this problem. These rivers have caused enormous damage to the infrastructure, on the roads. This basic recovery and decommissioning of some of the key communication routes has been done. The farm was suffering. Since we're a agricultural area, this is very important, because it's also suffered vegetable production, but also fruit and vines. When the question of fruit and grape seedlings, it is not currently a pity, but it extends to some future production cycle. There's also damage to housing. The 147 objects found an estimate of the damage, where the water level was not so large, and it reached two metres. They suffered floors, walls, furniture. When the damages were recovered, everyone was engaged. I have a huge gratitude to tell people who were volunteers and citizens of Triestenik municipality. We really had a lot of help and ministries. We had a great humanitarian aid in the water supply. There were tanks coming, bottled water. When it comes to the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Bratislava Gasic visited Grabovac and the Army of Serbia, more specifically the ABHO leader Kruševac did decontamination of the area in order to bring the population back to this flooded area as soon as possible. They also brought humanitarian aid by helicopter. When it comes to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, I must also thank Minister Rasim Ljajic, who provided 30 desiccants of the walls and the Ministry of Agriculture, who provided seeds, corn, cattle food and especially the MPs of the Committee on Agriculture, who visited these flooded areas. I need to say a few more words about this flood-delivery law. I must stress the importance of setting up this Office for the Assistance and Reconstruction of Flooding Areas, which will centralise and unite the whole process of reconstruction, which will meet the ministry and submit reports, which will coordinate the reception and distribution of humanitarian aid and determine the priorities of who will receive it, but also a significant acceleration of the public procurement process, which, as Mrs Mihajlovic said, will not be bypassed, but will only speed up these steps in order to access the recovery of the area as soon as possible. I'd like to thank you for your attention. Of course, in voting day, I'll vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4470	The word has been given by the MP Milos Tosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4471	The Honorable Chairman, honourable gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, my review and discussion of the Report on the elemental disaster will most notably refer to point 2 submitted by the Ministry of Defence and point 3. As a member of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, I was present at the committee meeting to discuss this report. I'd like to make my point on that report. I come from Lazarets, areas that have also been affected by this elemental disaster. I'd like to point out that just the first reports came from these areas. More specifically, as early as May 14th, Junkovic was first visited by Interior Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, who set an example of how he relates to the work he is doing and best possible set an example for all others, then the mayor of Belgrade, the energy minister, chief of the Belgrade Emergency Authority. I would like to compare the report on the floods of the city's Lazarec municipality with the report on the entire territory of Serbia, more specifically how much this report has been incorporated or implemented in the above. I can tell you that the contents of the report related to all Serbia included everything related to events and the situation in the Lazarec municipality. I would like to point out that I agree with all my colleagues and members of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, who think that civil protection is necessary and that its lack of existence has really led us to a better and more efficient action. In Lazarevec, we didn't feel much of the lack, just because our crisis headquarters led by Mr. Bojan Stevic did a great job and was very quick to cope with the situation and was at the height of the task. As well as Mr. Stević led and organized the crisis headquarters, it is also evidence that he received the "Vidovdan Prize" from the Lazarec municipality for all things done. On this occasion, I cannot without mentioning the "Colubare-Service" workers, besides other companies that participated in the great fight against the disaster that hit us, who were with Director Dragan Jeftic day and night on the ground and helped people in the accident. Many here talked today about the Colubara and the situation at the mining base. Ms. Ministerial Mihajlovic spoke in detail about it and detailed the situation, but simply in a few words I would like to say something about it. On page 171. The report is a report by JP "Electroprivreda Serbia" related to the company Kolubara and the consequences of the floods and the non-functioning of certain systems on surface spears field B, field D, "The Tamnava-West Field" and "The Great Black", on page 83. The report describes how events took place daily in the mining base "Collubara". Today, when we talk about this report, I want to tell you that the production in field B and field D has been launched and that these spears are being sent to TENT about 45 thousand tons of coal a day, which is half the production of the mining base "Colubara". Also, with a big push for RB management "Collubar", headed by Director Milorad Grcic, with all praise for what he has done so far, it is expected in August that the Big Black surface spear will be around 20,000 tonnes of coal, which is about 65,000 tonnes a day, representing about 70% of the total daily production. I note that even on the surface spear, the Tamnava-West Field has started to produce drains and if there is plenty of water on that surface spear. On page 15. Reports were mentioned that, among others, on 23 May, the most endangered areas in the municipality of Lazarec were the towns of Velika Crljeni, Stumic and Tamnava. That day, yes. That is true, but I would like to point out that 14 local communities in the Lazarec municipality were affected by this elemental disaster with a total of 1113 households, and of these 14 local communities with 12 evacuated people with a total number of 3112 evacuated. This way, I would like to thank all the members of the Republika Srpska Army and the MUP for their selfless and sacrificed efforts during the flood that hit the flooded areas. The government passed the exam this way and it was her fiery baptism. I want Vlada, headed by Mr. Vukic, full of happiness and success in the work and to continue this way with advancedness.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4472	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4473	Mr. Chairman, respected members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia experienced the biggest natural disaster in May's floods in its history. The government report we're discussing today should be monitored from that aspect. I must admit I don't understand the criticisms of the opposition that qualify that report negatively. If we take the disaster situation, we can say that the government has shown maximum engagement, that the government has shown the ability and responsibility to deal with the floods, that the government has done everything in its power to reduce the disaster situation. However, we have to admit that in one part of the local self-government, at lower levels, there were discrepancies, there was a certain vengeance, but it is certainly not the responsibility of the government and the ministers who were with the citizens daily, who helped local self-government to tackle the consequences of these floods. I therefore fully support this report, and I would like to thank all the members of the government, headed by Prime Minister Vukic, to thank all the members of the military and police, to thank the thousands of citizens who have made the most of themselves. I especially want to point out one target group, which has been avoided by racial faces, who have also largely responded to help build up the embankment, to help collect humanitarian aid, because it is the population that knows best what tragedy and disaster is. Unfortunately, we have citizens like that who have suffered a tragedy for the second, third time. For the first time, they were expelled from their hearth, for the second time many expelled from KIM in 1999, and now some of them, for the third time, in two decades, experienced a personal tragedy, have had huge problems to return to normal life. As for the bill on the removal of floods, I think it's good, that two important moments expire. It is the maximum acceleration of procedures to complete the reconstruction in the next year and, secondly, insistence on transparency and spending funds in a dedicated manner. Unfortunately, in the previous period, we've had a lot of cases of abuse of these funds. I just want to mention one example. In 2004, the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe approved a 20m-euro loan to address the housing needs of refugees and racial persons. In 2005, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, unintended 10m euros, spent on resuscitating the Vojvodina icefield. We don't know how those funds were spent. In 2010, the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, out of the remaining 10 million, spent eight million allegedly on the recovery of earthquakes in the Kingdom. 18m euros were spent unintendedly, and it was aimed at addressing the needs of a vulnerable target group in Serbia. I expect that the government, in addition to a number of other needs, will review and spend the 18m euros, which were, I repeat, intended to build houses for the refugees. In the end, I just want to say that in the voting day, I will support the law on the removal of the effects of the flood.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4474	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4475	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, the respected Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Mihajlovic, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us with a report by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the elemental disaster, flood and measures taken to save the population and defend the vulnerable places from floods, as well as a law on the removal of floods in the Republic of Serbia with a proposal for a measure. The SNS will vote for adoption, both law and report. Dear People's MPs, in addition to the severe economic crisis, one of the biggest in modern history, which has hit all of Europe and beyond, and our country, Serbia has, among other things, hit an elemental disaster, floods and slides, which further composes our economic and overall situation. Immediately, at the beginning, I would like to stress that the cataclysmic floods and glides that hit our people and our country have shown unity between the state and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I repeat, they have once again shown unity between the state and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's a huge capital, not to say it's the biggest capital, but it's also a big reminder for the future to learn some lessons in order to eliminate even the least unpredictable problems in the future if they come forward. Dear People's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the state has found its way to floods, and the Serbian government led with Mr. Vukic has done its job impeccably. Not only the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but our citizens, workers, peasants, youth, our athletes, our doctors, our students, our heroic Serbian Army, our MUP, in one word – all segments of society. What is certain is that the floods showed, regardless of the material damage that is huge, over a billion and a half euros, that Serbian and Serbian citizens have a future, because they passed one of the greatest tests, a test of humanity and a singleness exam. I have already said that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its president have done an extraordinary job. These are not only my claims and the SNS, but also the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and some neighbouring countries and European officials have confirmed that with their statements. A great deal of skill, courage and concern for the people at risk has shown the Serbian Ministry, headed by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and Predrag Maric, the chief of emergency situations, who have personally engaged in showing that they are worthy of the functions they are in. Abnegation of courage has also been shown by the heroic army of Serbia. By who knows which time she confirmed her historical tradition that she had grown with her citizens and shared the fate of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What about Mr. Minister of Military, Mr. Gasic and Mr. General Dikovic? I can tell them on behalf of the great majority of citizens one big, human, thank you. I'm sure the citizens of Serbia will know they appreciate it and won't forget it. Serbia's army hired, among other things, a large number of its members, as well as helicopters, motor vehicles, boats, pumps, trucks, water tanks, to help endangered citizens. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Army and the Special Army Brigade, the River Fleet, the Second and Third Training Centre, the Racine Brigade Development Command, as well as the 98th and 204th. The air brigades and, of course, did an extremely efficient job. Special gratitude deserves a student youth, which organised and showed high awareness of what is in the tradition of Serbian students. A great gesture was also shown by students with KIM, from the University of Kosovo Mitrovica, who self-organised, without the knowledge of their professors came to flooded and threatened places and provided assistance. One word, all the elements of society were included. We must not forget our neighboring countries that have come to our aid, so, not to mention, the whole of Europe, and in particular, I separate people from the mother of Russia, who have selflessly engaged in saving human lives. Serbian citizens will never forget that. As you have heard, over 31,000 citizens were evacuated during the May floods from Obrenovac alone over 25,000. I'm not going to tell you about those numbers, because they're extremely well processed in the report. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, it is good, firstly, that the law will ensure the normalisation of living conditions in threatened places. Secondly, it is good that this law will provide existential conditions for families and individuals whose housing has been destroyed or severely damaged. Third, it is good that this law will create conditions for carrying out economic and agricultural activities in endangered areas. Fourthly, it is good that this law will allow damage to be resolved on infrastructure facilities. Fifthly, it is good that the information funds, especially the public service of Serbia, have done their very job. The sixth, it is good that the Serbian government led the president very quickly, responsibly, acted stately during the flood. Seven, it is good that the Prime Minister and the president of the state have launched a donor conference today. And eight, it is good that the president of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic, has shown himself most active among all representatives of the parliamentary groups in this situation. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, in the voting day to vote your vote for this bill and the report. I particularly urge you, gentlemen of the opposition, to vote in favour of these two documents, because you too are convinced that they are extremely well made. This will give you a signal for the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, because that must be of common interest to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4476	The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4477	The Honorable Chairman, ministers, MPs, citizens, on behalf of the Emergency Staff, who was formed by the government's decision and chaired first by Commander Dikovic, and when he returned to Belgrade on behalf of the old duties, I took over and I want to say on behalf of that staff and the name of the truth and bring it to this house that the truth is only one. The truth about the situation in the town of Sapac, about the floods, about the dangers, about how a disaster of broader proportions is prevented and the truth about the extraordinary situation in all Serbia is only one and we will insist on it. The damage and question of one of the MPs of the opposition – who is responsible for the floods – has been determined, and we will insist on seeing how and how to prevent future floods, and first to determine who is and how responsible it is for such floods. As a direct participant of the 16th, I further confirm with my honor and name that these ministers have stated in their reports exactly as they were. All the ministers, the Prime Minister, the president of the Republic of Serbia were in flooded areas, provided all their assistance and everything that was at that time was available for the use of headquarters and believe that special and truly special thanks, at least when it comes to Shabac, and as I see other cities of the General Staff and the Serbian Army. When it comes to Shabac, we are not subject to the people – after the battle they are all generals. We were fortunate that during the battle we had a general and according to these decisions were made, a crisis headquarters was formed that worked perfectly and believe for those who were asking whether or not there was a danger in Capac, that it was. The threat was at the highest possible level, just by intervention of the Prime Minister, ministers, the Serbian Army's General Staff, citizens, not only of Sapca, but of all Serbia, has been prevented from disaster. We can't mention that there's one part of the town of Capca that's flooded. It's the villages of the Orid Basen, Micus, Mrdenovac, Orasac and Orid. Believe me, how difficult the situation was on the 16th to the 17th and 17th that the level in these villages was so high from the flood of the river Dobrava and Dumaca, that the water poured over the embankment into the Sava. Indeed, for the opposition people who claim there was no danger, I call them, we can go right after this assembly, and tomorrow or any day we can go to those people and tell them there was no flood and there was no danger. To commend the work of all, of course, the Water Directorate, Serbia Water, believe that there is a possibility and it is possible to do something during the emergency situation and there has already been done repairing the embankment, i.e. a rash was built on the position of the Kočina canal, the coast of the fortress near the town of Šapca in the length of 2.7 kilometers, accessible and long roads were made, so there is something to be done, there can always be found and the resources are only important projects and ideas are important. If you ask who is responsible for the defence of the town of Sapca, I will repeat again, the government is responsible, the ministers are responsible, the headquarters is responsible, the citizens of Sapca are responsible, the citizens of Serbia are responsible, and that is just the way it is. Who doesn't like it, choose another country. I will conclude with the conclusion that this situation has indeed been difficult, but it has shown and proved that in Serbia, people of value, honesty and above all human beings live. The crisis has united all of us and indeed we have come out of this crisis stronger and better people than we were before. The Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia is indeed historic, indeed for every praise and above all, not only for citizens of endangered areas but also for all citizens, because it shows that this government, that these ministers are thinking about how to prevent future floods and how to help and resuscitate in the fastest and simplest way what has already happened. In order not to wait for something new to happen again, we do everything in our power to strengthen Serbia's army in the area of intervention, strengthen the Emergency Sector, strengthen preventive activities and do everything we can to welcome a future emergency situation. Thanks again to everyone, thank you to the citizens, thank you on behalf of the chaplain. Believe me, Sabac is grateful to Serbia for being defended and for being in a situation at the moment that he is only relieving the consequences of spilling smaller rivers, and we have no problem pouring out the Sava River. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4478	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Balsa Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4479	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable representatives of the Government, chairman, we have two very sensitive issues in front of us today. The first question is the Government's flood report, the second question is the restoration of flooded areas. It is precisely because it is such a sensitive topic, as is the increased interest of citizens, especially those who have been threatened by the floods, that the Democratic Party has also requested a special session of the Government on floods, but not in this way to lead a united debate, not in a way that has been conducted politically speaking, because we do not want this matter to be politicised, but we have requested a special session of the government, which will be attended by the directors of water companies, representatives of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the Interior Ministry, all those who were on the ground and who were in charge. We've seen what it looks like when politicians take over jobs that are neither professional nor adequately trained. This all produced additional difficult circumstances and such a difficult situation in Serbia, additionally difficult circumstances especially for municipalities such as Krupanj, Obrenovac, Sapca, Paracina, Smederjevska Palanka, as well as many other towns and municipalities throughout Serbia. Because of this, the Democratic Party is asking for the Assembly to make a survey committee, which would examine everything that was going on in detail and whether it was possible to avoid the victims and even greater material damage. In the end, all together, as the people's representatives in this house, owe it to the citizens of Serbia. I would also take this opportunity and ask a few questions to the government's representatives, especially when it comes to the flood report that the Democratic Party said would not support. The first question is, how has money been spent over the last two years by charging water users? The money for the water industry, and to make it clearer for the citizens, is paid by the water user. According to the Refunds Act, that money has to be spent on purpose. However, according to the 2012 Budget Law, when the ruling majority also came into power, and fees enter into the general budget. From there, the funds are allocated according to the Ministry of Finance, according to the government. I think this is one of the essential things that must occupy the attention of the people's representatives, because this is where the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is shown. If it didn't turn out that it was just the government that had the gaps for here for two years, there are examples of water companies that didn't do things that they were responsible for. The most drastic one such example is now linked to the Smederjevska Palanka municipality where "Serbia" forcedly blocking the municipal account to charge 14 million dinars for the recovery of something that has never been recovered in two years at all. No single dinar in two years has been invested in eight pumping stations or riverbeds, leading to a huge amount of damage of about 900 million dinars in the municipality. None of those eight pumping stations that are supposed to defend the city from floods, there are neither engines nor additional equipment, which is why the municipality has sued "Serbia". Also, the next question, and in advance I would ask the authorities not to be angry, because we are slowly entering that stage when the government and representatives of the government get angry when the opposition asks a question – when will we finally get the correct list of all names and last names tragically injured in floods? Whenever we ask this question, and there are fellow MPs who have had the opportunity to attend these events, officials say it is an attack on the government. Citizens and families of the missing and the victims eventually deserve it. Then, for example, from Šapac and Obrenovac, there were many gaps and what we heard today from representatives of the citizens of Šapac, of course MP Dusan Petrovic, then fellow Mr. Borko Stefanovic – is it true that the city's crisis headquarters has been replaced against the law in a completely illegal way? I personally became convinced of the documentation and correspondence of the crisis headquarters in Šapac and "Srbijavoda", where the crisis headquarters fulfilled every order "Srbijavoda" which was the only one in charge of this situation. Every thing requested by the "Serbian" crisis headquarters has been fully completed or exceeded by 20% or 30%. On the other hand, there was this evening atmosphere, and I think you've convinced yourself of it, and it seems to me that there was an end of it and a concern of the government representatives who were in Shupco that night, that someone might even be lynched just because he was a member of the crisis headquarters of the town of Sapca. Fortunately, it did not happen, but these are people who have suffered personal damage, and above all their reputations have been questioned. Is it also true that my predecessor, Mr. Mirvancevic, has forged not only the government's letter, I'm not saying, I'm asking if it is, and not just the government's letter, but also the government's seal? Imagine a situation where one would think of anyone forging memos and stamps of the government and being falsely represented in the Republic of Serbia would create a complete anarchy in the country. To return to the end, as well as an MP coming from Belgrade, to Obrenovac, who is not the only one of course, but suffered the most damage in these floods. Rain that rained from Tuesday 13 May to Friday on Saturday 17 May in continuity. The Republic Hydrometeorological Institute must have informed the “Serbian” on time, and there must have been documents about it. However, the timely response of all the authorities was missing. No one wanted this to happen, to be clear, but something came up that we have to warn against ever happening again. It needs to be fair, and that's what I end up saying, and I think it's in the government report that we got and it doesn't say. I will remind you, just one more thing that has occupied Belgrade's attention, especially the citizens of Obrenovac, and finally Serbian citizens when Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic was in the village of Poljana on Thursday. It is one of three villages where floods are common and occur almost every year in that municipality. At that time, however, it was not indicated that Obrenovac was followed by cataclysm. I will recall a statement by the President of the Republic just a few days after the less accused citizens were evacuated in time. And how do they evacuate in time if the evacuation call is missing? It was only Thursday night at 21.00 p.m. on local television that the carron went to evacuate only a few places in Obrenovac. For this reason, the DS in the Belgrade City Assembly demanded an apology from the president of the Republic, not only to the citizens of Obrenovac and Belgrade, but also to the citizens of Serbia, because they eventually deserved it, given everything that hit them. It was to be understood, and the expedient factors and circumstances talked about today were many. The Danube was fortunately low to receive the Sava, the Sava was not at its maximum, so that part of the Colubara could be poured into the Sava. She poured herself out there somewhere in Croatia. The Colombian spears were submerged and received millions of cc's of water. What if it weren't for the quiet, let's call it, the happy circumstances in that big accident. The defenses, as the government's representatives certainly know, are gone today. The rashes don't fix. Tamnava is not being arranged, as one of the most hit rivers and the biggest damage it has done to Obrenovac, and in the autumn as a season, and we heard that Mr Blagojevic does not like autumn in Belgrade, he is carrying a whole new uncertainty. Recovery and recovery must not be individual and should not be allowed to be restored only by those who have. The government must therefore provide large additional resources to resolve this matter by the end of September. That's why the state has a huge job. A huge job is in many places in Serbia, and we hope that these deadlines will be respected until the end. We want it to be so, and you can always expect us to do so in terms of aid to the extent possible on our part. Also, Minister Mihajlovic, I would like to ask questions that interest Serbian citizens. What about building permits? What happens to legalizing illegal objects? Whether or not someone will be able to get permission without first legalizing their facilities. It's one time limit that's pretty long and that ultimately makes this whole thing difficult. I suppose citizens in many municipalities in Serbia and Serbia's cities face the same problem. We have no confidence for several reasons, and that is what my predecessors in the head of reconstruction or director of the Office for Reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia have said, given that someone who does not come from either the ruling party, or from the Government, or as a representative of the citizens, or from this home is someone who has not received support in any single election. Believe me, although I am a representative of the opposition, as a citizen of Serbia, it would be easier for me if Minister Mihajlovic, who is the director of the Office for Reconstruction, but if the government does not show confidence in her or Mr Velimir Ilic, but rather for the businessman Mark Blagojevic, we ask why the citizens would have confidence in this whole business. The Democratic Party will eventually not vote for this report or the law. The report, as we have mentioned, has many gaps, is not comprehensive and is of course spoken only from the day of emergency, and not those a few days earlier who are also subject to the responsibilities of all those in charge of this case. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4480	The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4481	The trust you speak of is obtained by results. So citizens give their trust to certain political parties or governments based on certain results. The trust you won in the election shows what your results were. I have to say, you've brought up a few things that just aren't right and they have to be said for the citizens, and I believe you and you know they're not true. When you talk about this Smederevska Palanca, which I also mentioned today, these pumping cells you're talking about, and the pump station problems last at least twenty years and the pump station, and that damage that occurred in Smederjevska Palanca was not caused by the water supply problem, but it was caused by the fact that the two water streams that are important in Smederjevska Palanca were only regulated, and the other one was not regulated, because your colleague at the time was no longer in your party, but he was the minister of agriculture, water industry and forestry, not one single letter from the president of the municipality, your member did not want me to answer. In this sense, the second water stream is not regulated and therefore Smederjevska Palanka is flooded. The damage the Smederjevska Palanka has shown will be on the verification because it turns out that in that damage, the damage list that Smederjevska Palanka has done there are some things that have occurred before the flood and are put in harm's way, and they are not harm. That's how it works, I guess, the game you belong to. So, partly correct. When you talk about people's names and names, I don't know if you've been in the O.R., if you haven't, then one of your colleagues could have told you, but I'd be happy to help you. Names and last names of people who have lost their lives have been given, but those names and last names cannot be found and the report, and that is the request of Mr Sabic's Commissioner. When you talk about being honest, I think that first you should be honest and say how long you were in power, how much you've invested in regulating the water streams, and how much you've ever dealt with what we're all suffering the consequences for. You can't get rid of everything in a year and you can't regulate everything in a year. So, I deeply believe that in the coming period we will deal primarily with flood prevention. That's what one of the priorities of this government is. Also, when you say "Saboac," it's lucky nobody's lynched. Yes, no one was lynched by people who were in front of the municipality not because he was a great mayor and knew what he was supposed to do in Sapco, but because the government of Serbia, ministers, generals, etc. to help solve things. That's why no one was lynched because the mayor had no vision of what to do. The mayor was sitting in another room where he was staffing with one of the MPs, not your party, and they were dealing with everyone else just not dealing with flood prevention, they weren't dealing with protecting the Sabac, which, in my opinion, was a priority for them at the moment, especially for him to be mayor. When you speak against the law, all that's been going on in Capco, I'll tell you that you're wrong. Also, it seems that you weren't present in the O.R. when the defence minister just read all the laws, all the strategies and all the members of the laws that allowed the change of headquarters in Capco. No matter how much you do in part with truths and half-truths, what the government is sure to do in the next period, the first thing we do is renovate seriously. So we have a report that the government did during the flood. We have made a law that lasts for a year, we will in the next period of time, just as we promised with the dynamics we have said, make it up to the citizens who have felt, or who have suffered the damage, and make up for the damages. Someone's gonna get the house, somebody's gonna have the house set up. You'll get seeds, fertilizer and every resistor you need. So behind this law and everything stands the government. You can and all Serbian citizens know or don't know, can think or don't think about it, it's our duty, it's our job and we have to do it, and you'll be there after a certain period of time to say this is good, this is not good, this is what you did, you didn't do this. As for flood prevention, as I said, it is one of the priorities of government work and the government will prepare the programme and I have said several times, not only for Serbia, we cannot deal with the story of floods without taking care of the region, or working together on this project, and that is what this government together, ministers, has been working on for a month and I believe that soon you and the public of Serbia will be able to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4482	Since there are more registered, only slowly, I have a situation – everyone at all, first Balša Bozovic replica short of Minister Zorani Mihajlović. Then Zoran Babic replicas Balshi Bozovic to the first address, then Dusan Petrovic to the minister, and then everyone to everything. Replica Balša Bozovica Minister Zorani Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4483	I'm just going to give one piece of truth for the sake of it. It is not true that it has not been invested in four years, five years, the DS, has invested 150m euros, which is funds from the budget, which is from the province's budget, which is from the World Bank's loan. It's something that represents a fact and it's verifiable data that citizens, and of course, you know that I can check it by asking for official information from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's what the result of working on this issue is in those five years. Let's not keep going back to what was in those five years, because that's what I could say in my first presentation. He's no longer in power of the DS. Now you're in charge, and I think you should tell the citizens what you've done in these two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4484	Replica Zoran Babic, Balša Bozovic, first address.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4485	I'm sorry, Madam Chairman, because the previous speaker is not consistent. You can't say on the one hand, they're not politicians capable and ready to make a defense or rebuild. Then, on the other hand, when the Government led by responsibility, led by transparency and in the collection and spending of funds, it hires the Director of the Office, Mr. Marko Blagojevic of the NGO sector, that neither he nor he is able to do so. What's good? Politicians don't work, businessmen don't work. You seem to be in no good shape at what the government suggests and say it. Do not use as an argument that businessmen are wrong or politicians are wrong, or be consistent. Some of those two categories of people don't work, but they can't all work out. Enough more to wave above everyone's heads, everyone, here in this National Assembly, you know, we've applied for a survey committee. We said that on the same day, at the same time, yes, the SNS agrees, we will create a polling committee that will monitor the collection of funds, the spending of funds to rebuild our country, but we want this survey committee to deal with and spend funds after the earthquake in Kralje, after the flood in Jasa Tomic, after all the troubles that have taken place in our country, but I haven't heard from you to say – yes, we are also about to put a stop once for all the troubles and troubles that have happened in our country. We said yes, we want this committee of inquiry and we agree with 136 MPs, but to examine where the money was spent to build misery. I'm not saying that that money was stolen, I don't have any evidence, I don't want to be irresponsible and say something like that, but I can suspect that it went to pay, some other things, which at that point some local politicians or politicians in power in Belgrade seemed much more important. It's more about wages than misery.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4486	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4487	Let's put an end to it sometime. And I want to make a survey board, file a request, but the survey board will examine all irregularities.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4488	I thank you, MP. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4489	The 27th member has been injured in connection with article 85 and is under the obligation of the chairman to give notice to members of the national parliaments for work. National MP Zoran Babic spoke carefully about the establishment of a polling committee and I think it is my duty to remind the MP that a request for the establishment of a polling committee can be submitted and must be held at the assembly session, that the proposed committee must propose the composition of the polling committee, the subject of the survey committee's work, the aim of the survey committee's work and that plenary debate be conducted. It is not good for one such serious subject, which we have the authority to discuss, and the President of the National Assembly is entitled to propose that it be a point of the agenda, that one such serious business jurisdiction be politicised, ridiculed and said that anyone can react to the proposal that someone has already submitted, the composition of the survey board. It may, but at the session at which the agenda is at, the session at which the debate is held and at the session at which decisions are taken. I have no doubt that just because the MP's not found and confused, there has been this very serious failure, which I think is necessary for the public to know, and to remind you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4490	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. It seems to me that you did not understand Ambassador Babic in his address. This was the answer to the procedural, proposal or request of the DS, it seems to me that only the DS parliamentary group asked to form a polling committee with this issue of spending money, but at the time when you filed this perhaps verbally at the press conference, I did not see the written removal of that oral address, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, and at that time he repeated, so what he said agrees with the establishment of the polling committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4491	Does this mean that he unfortunately did not read the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4492	I didn't understand if you wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure, to vote on it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4493	No, no, this is just out of respect for the National Assembly procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4494	I can't hear the rest of this because it's not the usual thing to throw. Thank you. Replica Dusan Petrovic, Minister Zorani Mihajlovic, because she mentioned you as former Minister of Agriculture from the former DS, so I understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4495	I don't know, Madam President, what the Minister has against me, but it doesn't matter. I'm reading a message sent to me by the president of Smederevska Palanka Municipality. I'll pick my words. He says the minister doesn't tell the truth and he never told her anything like that. I can't get into it, it's the minister with the president of the municipality to discuss it. I didn't want to replicate the first time she said the same thing or I said something, I didn't go into facts. I asked around on the other side. So, 80 million dinars were spent to regulate the Jasenica River's waterway in 2011 and 2012. All these memos the minister is talking about, says the president of the municipality that it is not true and that he is ready to put all the correspondence to the public. I don't think we here now can determine what is and what isn't, but I do know that these things, since it's official communication, are being discussed. Of course, there are many MPs and our citizens here who don't need to, nor can they know how things work. I will repeat once again, everything about water treatment is based on the programme for this part of Serbia, "Serbia", for Belgrade and Vojvodina, for other institutions, and above "Serbia" is the Directorate for Water, which has a director, who is independent in his job, even in relation to the minister, so that this is neither sustainable nor what the minister is talking about. What I had to say about Whisper, I said. There are indications that the various proposals were made to the mayor and the Prime Minister and to all those who were at headquarters. I don't think we can figure out what's wrong here. What I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4496	Time. Thank you. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4497	Let me tell you one more thing. (National MP Marko Djurisic, from the post: Two minutes and 23 seconds spoke. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4498	What do you say, MP? You'd like to take your word for it. I can't hear, I really can't hear the throws. I'll pretend not to hear it after our college.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4499	Two words and I'll be done. When someone says that if they don't agree with the official version and the truth that's been established somewhere, they can move.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4500	Thank you, Ambassador. Two minutes and 31 seconds. That's why we wouldn't be angry with your MP group, two minutes and 38 seconds I've allowed you to speak and I've tolerated reading text messages and Twitter and everything we can tolerate this time. I accept that on behalf of the people you read the text message. I thank the minister for giving up. The word is Borisav Kovacevic. Is he here? No, I don't. ) Jovana Jovanovic sent a letter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4501	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Minister, Ministers, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we are subject to a report on floods and the Law on the Elimination of Floods. What, when we look at the law, we can see two things. The first thing is that the prime minister obviously doesn't trust his closest associates, that he doesn't trust the institutions, so that he will professionally do this job, so the job of the director of the Office for the Assistance and Reconstruction of Flooding Areas trusts Mr. Blagojevic, director of the private firm. Another thing we can see when we look at this bill, that although you mentioned from each ministry that three people were made available to Mr Blagojevic, we can interpret this as that, that the government actually wants to reduce the job and escape from responsibility, because for the work, that is to say, it will be Mr Blagojevic's case. Mr Blagojevic, who, unlike colleagues from the ruling majority and who, unlike ministers for his work, does not correspond to the voters who chose them, not all Serbian citizens, but not the National Assembly appointed by ministers. You know, it's been two months since the flood. I must express my suspicion that in less than a month, classes in all schools will begin in time, as you have announced, and that all those who have lost their roof over their heads by the start of autumn, or before the beginning of autumn, as you said, will have their houses. Another proof that you're running away from responsibility is that it's not just the money from the budget that's been allocated to help, it's the money that came from the donations. Another flaw is that, as you mentioned earlier, typical objects of 60, 80 and 100 m2 will be built, but that these types of objects will not be able to be sold over the next five years. I'm asking what happens if someone's already planning on selling their house for a reason, what if he wants to move abroad or if someone wants to, or maybe now that he's rebuilding his house, he wants to sell it so the kid can pay for school, or if God doesn't get sick, so he needs the money to treat? What should also not be forgotten is that building all these and restoring all these facilities will be necessary issue and construction and use permits. I think that citizens, unnecessarily for these permits, if they want to build a house of 100 m2 they will have to give up to 15,000 dinars for different taxes, which for all those houses that will be built will be about 10% of their money that will be allocated to rebuilding houses When we look at this flood report, except at first glance we can see that the flooded areas are gone, because the first page says that we are looking for blue-marked municipalities in black and white photography, and we can also see that there are even bigger missing ones. One of the ruling majority's MPs mentioned that the consequences could be avoided or reduced if they act preventively. I couldn't agree more. Among other things, the consequences may have been reduced if there was enough money to defend the flood. The money was not enough because, among other things, the change in the law in 2012 reduced the money of the proceeds of "Serbia". Also, one of the ruling majority MPs mentioned that someone had not kept an eye on what could happen for years. I once again agree with the ruling majority MPs, when it comes to this statement, because after the law was passed in 2011, we had three governments, this is the third government and someone hasn't kept track of it for years. Here is a third government that has not adopted all the regulations, including the alert system regulation, or the setting up of alert units and civil protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4502	Thank you. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4503	Thank you for your comments, but I owe you an explanation. When you say money wasn't for water management. I agree that there has been a change in funding since 2012, but I will also tell you that the money has not been because this country has been poor for ten years. And those ten previous years, it wasn't the SNS that made governments, it was your party, DS. No matter what, unfortunately, it's a condition. Second, when you say office. I'd like you to read it, it would be your turn to read the Rules of Procedure, so you'll see that the Office is a government service. So in Article 31, it writes – The government establishes a regulation to establish professional or technical services for its own purposes or for tasks common to all or more authorities of the state administration and prescribes their editing and workaround. So the office is the government's office, it's not on the side. The government is responding. So the office has its director, but it's the government that wanted through the office to centralize what the inflows were, meaning the sources of funds and what was after the restoration itself. You mentioned building permits. I don't know where you read that people for building permits will now after the flood to pay some of the amounts you mentioned. I'm sorry, I didn't see it in the law. If you saw it, tell me where you saw it. He won't pay. They'll also have building and location permits. That's why we're making this law that's been going on for a year. You also said that when they get their 60s, 80s or 100s squares, then in the next five years they won't be able to sell. And what if they were just about to sell the house? Unfortunately, there's been an elemental accident. It's a gift from the state. We'll handle all the documentation, which hasn't happened before. Houses were built, but it was not taken care of whether these new houses that are being built have building permits, location permits, whether they were built in safe places etc. The state will build each house, 485 of them in space, so who is first sure, the second one will give both construction and location permits and all it takes for someone to get their house to have complete documentation and that the transfer of property has been carried out. I think I've answered the most basic things. If there's a need for a supplement, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4504	The word has a message from Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4505	The esteemed chairman, respected ladies, ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have moved away for a long time in today's debate. I guess we're all tired already. I'm just going to try to look back at a few things about first of all the basic accident report. Unfortunately, according to our old habit, we always act on misfortune, we act on consequences, and we do not act preventively, and we do not respect that people – it is better to prevent it than to treat it. So here's why we're sitting here for so long and normal, and large funds will be used to repair the damage. I just want to look back on a few things in this report. First of all, something that was weird to me, and if you want, it bothered me. There are no data in this report on the floods in Vojvodina, i.e. There is no "Voda Vojvodina" report on the activities undertaken in the territory of Vojvodina, primarily in the municipality of Šid and Sremska Mitrovica or at least not isolated. It is mentioned in some parts of individual ministries. A colleague here mentioned activities in Sremska Mitrovica and thank him for that, but it is not his to inform us. This report should contain that information. It's not here. I would especially refer to the aspect of environmental protection and to the restrictive ministry to direct my observations. According to the ministry's report, 288,328 kilograms of animal waste and 133,729kg of food of animal origin, which was destroyed in the cafeterias, were collected from endangered areas. Unfortunately, this document does not contain any callilries, nor does it provide information on how many kafilariums exist in Serbia's territory, which is a very important data, since three kafilariums in Serbia are somewhere in 2006/2007. Years through the World Bank project, they got equipment. They were in Turkey, Padinska Skela and Sombora. Unfortunately, Padinska Skela and Sombor stopped working at the beginning of this year because of, at least in the media, financial reasons and are waiting for the help of the restoring ministry. The only one who received confiscates and burner in India turned out to be the only ones and functioned throughout the region, so, as far as we can see from the media, and that's not what the report says, the dead cattle were brought here from the territory of Republika Srpska, or Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is very important from the aspect of environmental protection and it is very important to note that these objects are both useful and important and that they are essentially only in the territory of the Vojvodina. The second thing I would point out is that the question is the state of water and sewerage facilities, because you will agree that this is the biggest problem, that is, with the longest duration of not solving in municipalities that are affected by floods. The report provided by the Ministry of Health contains data related to the ban on the use of water in certain settlements, drinking water, but no data regarding the state of the water supply and sewerage, as this infrastructure has been massively destroyed or at least assumed to have been destroyed, as such data do not stand in the report. We are within the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, whose member I had a public hearing on the very consequences of the environmental flood. Unfortunately, at that public hearing, whether because it was organised relatively early, there was not enough data, or representatives of the ministry and the agencies present were not prepared, or capable, so to speak, to inform us. There was almost nothing we could hear, except one fantastic report and a presentation, so I'd better say, a professor at the Faculty of Erosion in Serbia and the consequences that can happen. When human activity makes wrong moves, does not react professionally, does not work professionally, then we have such phenomena. Sadly, in all this story, my impression, my listener, or little, or later wondered about the consequences, or how and what to do. I think in the future we need a lot more experts in the field of hydrotech, erosion experts, anything related to this area, because we as a society have to behave completely differently. There is great amateurism in the area, especially when building a question. We've had our chance to hear what's going to happen around building houses and stuff. There's one more thing I'd like to say. No status related to the disposal of waste from these areas affected by the floods has been shown. The question I referred to in this public hearing - what about waste from affected areas, we received an answer from the ministry's representatives to recommend to municipalities, or settlements to define a temporary location for disposal, which in translation means former bricks or former depression on the ground where waste is to be dumped and it's like a temporary solution, and I know from experience that temporary solutions are something that takes the longest and this is not a good approach when it comes to environmental protection. I'd look at just one more detail when the media is asking. The media were very much present during the floods, not to say that some even with some sweet delights recorded other people's suffering and misery, and they did not, for example, teach the population how to, among other things, or how to give instructions to clean wells after the flood. I have here a newspaper cut that would be a fantastic guide for citizens, where public service could actually organize thematic things about dealing with these situations, that is, how people in the household can overcome problems and how they can normalize their lives. I expect that after this report, which is neither complete nor sufficient for me, we get a special detailed report when the question of environmental impact and consequences, because it can also be used for applying for different means. Representatives of the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will not support this report, nor will his law come out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4506	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4507	Thank you. I'll just take a minute. The activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection are mentioned in terms of the Veterinary Administration and its roles in the field's association. I would like to point out that the floods have caused major damage to the livestock stock, so a large number of dead animals have appeared on the ground. Our Veterinary Authority in coordination with veterinary institutes, in coordination with the relevant services of other ministries, such as the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Defence, acted where possible immediately after the withdrawal of water. The bodies and special vehicles were collected and transported to the cafeterias, where their harmless removal was carried out. The removal of corpses, or their harmless removal, took place in two calories. There's one in India, and the other one's in Somboro. Also, you mentioned that the Serbian government specifically approved the import of dead animals from BiH only for this situation, for an emergency situation, when we received a request from the BiH authorities and a request to meet them after they do not have their own burner facilities. We felt it was justified not only for their sake, but also for the fact that not by removing corpses from their territory would endanger health security and our area. So, after the disposal of the corpses, we've also had the disinfection of the terrain, and I have to say that our services have done their part of the job very well, professionally and efficiently, so we can say that no outbreak of any infectious disease or spread of it has been recorded on the ground. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4508	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4509	Thank you. In short, the reasons why I'm voting against the report. Because on a total of 310 pages and 114 pages of the right text, this other contribution, I don't see what I'd like to see with the government that I'm also an opposition and with the government that I supported, and that's the awareness of reality, as I don't see it even in discussions afterwards. You know, heavy rains and floods fall equally to power and opposition, but the government is responsible for reducing damage and implementing jurisdiction and prevention, and the opposition is responsible for revealing everything that the government wants to hide. If we forget that it rains both in power and in opposition, we will have rain again in the fall and if in the fall of the rain we welcome no sublegal acts in the Ministry of the Interior, if in the fall of the rain we welcome whether or not it is more important who is chief of staff, and not whether everything the Water Directorates are supposed to do is done, then many will join us in voting against this report. In short, why I'll be against the law. Three terribly important things remain unresponsive. The first question is why does the office have a direct payment order, based on what? On what basis will the Office do the same as the Ministry, or give orders to the Treasury? Secondly, it is not true that the law says that the permits and all the documentation for those affected by the flood are free of charge. There's no reason for the municipality or anyone to say they won't charge, if you need taxes, if you need to pay for the plan. Why am I talking about this? Because the law says reconstructions. We all know that's what a license is for. If you need a building permit, one of you will ask for money for that building permit. They'll ask for money for a plan. That, Ministerial, doesn't say it'll be free of charge. Second, or last time, application, it's the thing that bothers me most about the office and about the idea that whoever it is, or she was, I don't care, I watch what she does, not who she is, that she does direct payments. Time to sign up for eight days, why do you ask people for eight days? How do you know you can find all the people in eight days to sign up? Why do you need another register of those who will have a claim for flood damage? Don't do that to people and to the regulation that you expect us to say – great, you'll be able to register all those covered by floods in eight days. You won't, simply because people aren't in the field, because many of them can't go home. Local self-government takes time to find them. We have tried to submit amendments that are in favour of the clarifications of these laws, which need to be made clear whether they will suffer in floods to cost some additional documentation, which should be clear, the reasons why the Office's order for direct payments and, of course, an application for an extension of the deadline. Thank you for extending your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4510	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4511	Thank you. That's what you suggested in the amendment. I agree that we're precise. We will accept that amendment. So, it's perfectly safe for a member of the Law on Planning and Construction of 143, and it says that in emergency situations they won't pay, but we will specify further, that there will certainly not be any additional costs for issuing building permits, or for collecting paper, where we will, of course, help. When you talk about the office, I just owe you an extra explanation. They're closing contracts. It's normal for houses to be built and certain situations to be sent. In order to prevent abuses of local self-governments from doing so, we have centralized it, that these temporary situations are coming to the office. That's why she has the possibility of direct payment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4512	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4513	Thank you. Because of the sentence you have shared, the argument is – local self-government will abuse, and the Office will not, Your Honor. That's what I'm talking about in terms of why I vote against the Report, when I say rain falls on both power and opposition. If we don't trust the people who have received the obligation in the local elections and the right to manage local affairs, then how do we expect them to do the same when it comes to emergency situations and floods? Why do we feel that by establishing this new office and by paying directly from there, we prevent abuse? Because it's the government? I don't have a suggestion for you to be on local self-government. I have an appeal for all of us to start looking at Serbia as it is. There's something blue in Serbia twice a year. Twice a year, you have erosions and slides. Serbia is a country, a geography we love, which has more problems on the annual basis with floods than other neighbouring territories. I ask you to start doing this, to listen to the expert my colleague, Nada Lazić, and to stop showing so much mistrust to everyone but us in the government, who knows that the Office will pay impeccably. We will follow and hope it will be impeccable, because of you together, not because we're going to catch someone who abuses donation money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4514	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4515	I didn't say he was gonna use it. I said maybe we wouldn't abuse. I know exactly what I said. That's one. Two, it's much easier to control in one place 126 situations that can come or 50 situations that can come, than to control them in all local self-government. It was one of the reasons, not because the government or the office will do it impeccably, and local self-government will not, but rather it is simpler and more efficient because we need to react faster, since in a month and a half we will have many temporary situations in many municipalities. That would be the only reason, not the mistrust you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4516	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and a single search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? The word is from the People's Messenger Bojan Kostresh.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4517	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives of the government, I will briefly, since today's workday is over. There was a lot of emotion, a lot of hard words. I think these events today in this room may have made me speak differently than I normally planned. First of all, I want to say that my impression and impression of us in the LSV parliamentary group is such that the Republic of Serbia is not ready to deal properly with the natural disasters of these scales. Unfortunately, it's not our first time experiencing basic disasters and natural disasters. Fortunately, it wasn't in these proportions. I hope this situation never happens again. But the fact is that in the last ten years, we have also had floods in Banat, Jasa Tomic, an earthquake in the Kingdom and the rinks in central Serbia, and what I can unfortunately see and I have to conclude is that what's going to happen again. Nature is like that. We're getting into a situation where we have climate change. I think it's realistic to assume that such things will happen more and more often. We come now in the summer periods that today, after all these heavy rains that happened both in Vojvodina and here in Belgrade, it doesn't look like it, but if we get into a situation that ends in July and the beginning of August or all of August, maybe September, to wake up high temperatures, to have a constant high temperature, we can be threatened by fires. Is the Republic of Serbia ready at this time to face possibly this disaster and how can we prevent fires or confront them? Do we have the capacity? I'm not saying this because I'm scaring people, and I'm not saying this because I'm looking for the culprits, but I'm talking about the seriousness of the situation that we're all in, and the need to focus our strengths, to focus our knowledge, to focus all the energy we have, to try to make a regulation that's good enough and good enough to warn these situations, and not to let them happen anymore. I think this assembly, this high house, is expecting us to do a big job writing civil protection laws. I think civil protection must work much better, much more efficiently than today and many jobs both in Šapac and Obrenovac and in Sremska Mitrovica and in Shid and elsewhere, it is precisely a civil protection job. At this point, unfortunately, we don't have the kind of organised civil protection that could be involved in solving these problems. I think it's the job of this high home and, ultimately, the government to try out common forces, that based on the experiences we have here from the previous period, based on experiences from the region, based on experiences that other countries have, to find the strength to pass this law and to adopt that law as soon as possible, because it will greatly help us to have prevention, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that we can react more effectively, better and better. I'll ask you a hypothetical question. A large number of volunteers responded to the prime minister's call and that's great. It just shows the spirit of our citizens, that people who are hard to help and are willing to take responsibility and get into dangerous situations. What would happen if the car went downhill? What would have happened if the rash had cracked somewhere? What would happen if these people, who went there with their hearts, wanted to help, to do something useful, what would have happened if there had been an unforeseen situation? These people weren't trained for that job, those people didn't have adequate equipment. Repeat, I'm not looking for the guilty. I don't want to point a finger at anyone. I know that at that moment, that solution was probably both safe and only realistic. Maybe I'd do the same. Let's not let these situations happen to us anymore. Let's not let such places in such situations, regardless of their goodwill, go to volunteers, but go to civil protection, go to people who are dressed for it, people who are equipped for it. It won't go easy or fast. I know what the situation is, and I know about the money and the resources the Republic has, but if we don't start dealing with it, we're going to get back into a situation where we have the same or similar problems in some new elemental accident. In this sense, you can count on the Social Democrats League as a support or as a part of the writing of this law, if necessary. In the report I read, I didn't see that there were reports from the Public Water Company "Vode Vojvodina" and I think it's a big problem. I think it's a problem and I'll only say it for a little while, but in one political aspect, because if there's no room for information from the province administration in that report, then we're creating a problem. These two administrations are the same one administration on two different levels. That's why I think there must be a place in the future for the public water company's reports "Vode Vojvodina" and the government of Vojvodina and all other institutions operating in the territory. For the sake of the public, I will read the report from one document, a presentation of the costs of defence against external and internal waters in the period of May – June 2014. I won't read the items. In the end, 329,092 dinars were singled out by ‘Vode Vojvodina’. If for nothing else, because people were working in the defense area of the Sava coast both at Shid and at Sremska Mitrovica and I think they deserve to be mentioned. Not to mention, if something happens in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and I am somehow experiencing the Duke's part of the Republic of Serbia, then it should be in this report. Reading these reports, which I received from the Public Water Company "Vode Vojvodina", I came up with another information that was very interesting to me. All investments that took place, related to the reconstruction of water safety belts and the construction of new ones, for the construction of expropriation documents, all that was done, were done between 1980 and 1990. Look at the wonders, at a time when Vojvodina had full autonomy and managed its own money. It might be good to think a little bit about people, not only in Vojvodina, but also in other parts, they may be better and better able to take care of their environments. Not because someone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't want to do a good job or not to benefit or love this or that end, but because I think that people in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their abilities and quality, can sometimes not cover all areas. I'd like to finish with a few questions, or two questions. A report by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection said that samples of agricultural land were taken at 300 locations. We have no record of these samples of what's happening clearly. Secondly, I'm interested in whether in flooded areas, it means agricultural land, where it could have been, has been restored to production? Did the Ministry of Agriculture give advice or otherwise help farmers in that area? Is something done, what is done, how many hectares and what results can we expect in this area? In the end, I mean, regardless of the great accident that happened, all those involved in the flood defense must have given their maximum and I believe they were trying to do the best they could. I think the only way that disasters don't happen to us, the only way that there's no major material damage and human casualties is prevention, is a good organization, and it's co-operation of all levels of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4518	The word has Minister Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4519	I'll comment on something another time. There's another story about Yashi Tomic. I repeat, this is CEB's loan which is strictly controlled and implemented to the end. After Jasa Tomic, however, Vojvodina asked for funds to build all channels in Vojvodina and the defence dikes. They got the funds. No feedback on how the funds were used never came and the citizens living there say these channels weren't made, finished. It was an election campaign and it all went away. We're talking about slides in Vojvodina. Have the funds been raised? What are those slides? Where are the reports? The feedback didn't come, and jurisdiction was passed on and there was no way to control it. If you want a survey board, control it, there's no problem. Another thing, do you believe a bridge was built on the Danube without permission? Do you believe there's no protection done in the Danube Court? Do you believe the old bridge in Vienna is being rescheduled for the second time in 20 years? Do you believe the other bridge was built without any protection? That's why he couldn't get a building permit and use permission and he can't ever get it until it's done. I want to remind you now that I have sent a warning to the mayors of Belgrade, the previous, not recently, that I have sent a warning to the Duboka and Sava rinks and sent them a project that has been done completely to enter into the realisation together. That's where the Corridor 11 was supposed to pass. They made a decision and went to the other shore and said – we go to the left coast of Obrenovac, this is all wrong. Do you believe that the Colubare root, after moving and moving the spears... The Kolubara River Regulation project was not completed, but was only partially done and the work was terminated in 2010? Do you know where the biggest wild building is? In Panchea's ass. Do you believe that Jaroslav Cherney warned that the 100-year-old waters of Danube would flood Panceva's ass? The biggest wild construction is there. Do you believe that I have warned Belgrade's leadership five times to do the canalization of the Mind and to reduce at least 30, 40% of the slide because each yard has three to five septic pits? And today Umka doesn't have a sewer. Thirty-three percent of Belgrade has no sewers. Sheep, Borcha, not to mention, nun, Umka, etc. These are all serious problems that need to be solved. That's why we're all here together. Let's not do this now. This is these. This is them. It was everything. There's a law here to do something, to rebuild, to make it happen, to realize that nature is hard to fight, but we have to fight. It's nice to have rivers, but they need to be brought into order, into the waterways, etc. It's nice to build something, build something, but it can't be built. You know that the largest wild construction in Novi Sad, that's what they call the Valley of Thieves, is what they call it. Either I'm making trouble, or the settlement to dislocate. You know, whenever the Danube grows, there's a flood. So we're building in a completely blue area and everyone tolerates it at the bar. I wouldn't want to say now it's Peru, Zika, Mika. Local inspection services allow it. You know that several buildings have been built in Karaburma in the past four, five, six years, at the location of Karaburma, the Stargazers, which are sinking. People come, they come to my office every day. The rinks, which are given permission to build a building in the middle of the slide and warnings and not worth it, are built. People bought apartments and what do they do now? So let this serve as a reminder to all and to all understand, there is this guilt, everything, and to put it in order, and so all of us, especially Parliament, to exercise control, to get out of those frames, to have a situation, and then to pursue the guilty one. We can't go after the culprit now when we're in opposition, and when we're in position, we haven't solved any problems. We come back to power again, we're chasing the culprit out of some opposition, and here the attack on the government -- it's her fault, and we're the opposition today, we're not guilty of anything. I don't know who led these cities where these problems now escalated. Therefore, it is known exactly, every slide is marked in Serbia where it cannot be built. You know exactly what misery has failed, you know exactly, you have all the reports. You can look at it and the experts have warned. The Sava River has to be bogged down. It's been delayed for 10 years. He's got to go deep. We can't run from it. We move the highway past Baric, move to the Surinian side and say, "We've solved the problem, and we haven't solved the problem." Let's solve this problem by problem and all make an effort to solve it. Tomorrow someone will be power again, now it's the opposition, the problem will stay constant and it will spin. So let's not go that way. Let's do something, that this program that's given, it's what it is, but it's made. Something else is written that someone can read tomorrow, not ask what happened five, ten, or 20 years ago, who did it, etc. I'm asking you to support everything that the government has suggested, as soon as possible, to go into construction. It is true that the "Serbians" need a lot of money, but it is true that the "Serbians" must be a cap for all water. Let's not compete now, the right bank is "Serbia", and the left is "Vojvod's Water". We're successful, and it didn't break through with us, and it broke through with them. And who's gonna pay for the damage? Well, Serbia as a whole, as a state. We all have to pay for the damage. It has to be a unique flood defense system. Let's not split the river to the left and right, so we'll compete on which side will break through the misery. The bed must be good from both left and right and one control must be the same. Let there be “the water of the Duke, ” but let it be a hat, someone from above who will still control it and give some consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4520	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4521	Just for a little while, I would like to answer MP Kostreš's question regarding the migration of the agricultural areas affected by the floods. That's what I've been talking about, but again, it's not hard for me, but I'm happy to do it again now and as many times as it takes. We have engaged immediately after the withdrawal of water from flooded areas to assess what are all the agricultural areas that can be swept. Our professional services were in the field, and we came up with a total of 16,000 acres. Of course, samples of soil for testing microbiological and chemical composition were taken from these flooded surfaces. Based on the results of these researches and in collaboration with professional services, we have proposed that our producers sow these surfaces to the corn hybrids of the grain group of 100-300. They're short-vegetation hybrids. One smaller area than the total sown area, sown with soya seeds. According to our field information, and tomorrow we're going to tour these sown agricultural crops, the situation of these crops is really good and we hope it will be a good contribution in line with the technological norms of seeded cultures. As I suggested this morning, the distribution of fuel to our producers starts tomorrow. In a few days, the distribution of fertilizer supplies will also take place. This whole business was preceded by an intense work on seed security. We provided seeds from donors, our institutes, from foreign institutes. He has previously been working on providing funds and an acceptable model for compensation in terms of the necessary mineral fertilisers. So we expect that this activity will be completed very soon and that we will receive the expected contributions. What's even more interesting, according to our action plan very quickly, in the next few days we'll begin to compensate for the damage to livestock. We have a large number of animals that we planned to replace to our cattlemen, who suffered damage in that sense, and according to our plan, there is also compensation for the damage in the plantation production, in plastic production, compensation for the destroyed ponds and beekeepers, but when the previous work is done. We expect these compensations to start at the end of September and early October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4522	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, three minutes and thirty-five seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4523	Thank you. In this short time that remains for our parliamentary group, let me just add a few things and ask two questions for which I will ask the Minister at least in writing to answer me, if he can't today. In any case, we believe that this law has been passed to avoid the Public Procurement Act, as we have repeatedly said, that only one government agency would be formed. We said who's human and who's supposed to lead her. It may now seem that you have passed the law that you used to proclaim and then passed. Maybe you could make it. As Mr Blagojevic announces, by August 1st, over 200,000 dinars in Obrenovac begin payment. I really do, and I want it to be that way, and time will tell. I'm afraid there will be another empty promise from this government again. So, I'm interested in what I didn't get to ask – why did Mr. Simonovic's director ask business partners and the company to make donations for the floods directly to the railway account? You know about the case, and if that's true, and it is, what are you going to do about it, because I know that at least five times you've replaced it at the party's presidency. I think it's time for you to work it out more. The second question, we all saw that the construction site was open in Obrenovac, the prime minister was there and Mr Blagojevic, for about a dozen houses. You remember that, montage facilities. My question is who is overseeing the construction of these facilities in Obrenovac and who has issued the approval for construction, based on which project documentation, based on which tender documents have been obtained? I'm very interested in that. These are typical installation facilities and I don't understand how Mr. Blagojevic will now be guaranteed to carry out the works in a legitimate way, if he wasn't able to do it for these ten houses, because we know that there are no documentation, there was no tender procedure or anything else. Here, these are the two questions that I would ask, wanting to really get to the truth that I'm confident is going to save Serbia and get to what's wrong with us not being repeated, not because someone hates, doesn't like, pathology and other things that are mentioned here, which are not the place in this room. I think you can ask Minister Ilic very well, and you did not, do you believe that President Nikolic has built illegal facilities in the Sava River's waterway. Do you believe that? I believe it is, I saw it. So what do we do about it? So who will do these things, so is he flooded? Well, we want to make things right legally already, and you've been running some bars, you might as well have done something about it. You're talking about wild settlements, so you ran that resort. What about the nun? You mention the valley of thieves, there are these valleys in almost every city. The problem is that those who made them are now very close, not to you personally, but to your coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4524	Do you remember our deal until a few hours ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4525	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4526	Thank you. Minister, you want to now, or you want to answer all the questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4527	I'll be brief. About the railways and what we read from the media, so the anti-corruption team and the Ministry who was also in energy, and now exists in construction and in traffic and infrastructure, doing its job. All the documentation we have, as we have for everything else we have submitted, will be submitted to the competent authorities if everything that was written in the media is determined to be true and related to the director of the Railways. When you ask about the Obrenovac, it's mostly donations. Oversight is being done by a donor. A contract has been made between the donor and the office that says exactly, I can't tell you exactly which member, but it's the key in hand. So they're you, the foundation's "Blic". They're the ones who'll hand you over as the key to your hands. What you're talking about at the SNS presidency, you're not a member of the SNS, you're not a member of the SNS presidency, and what we're talking about is our business. What we want to go public is what we say, so I don't know how you know what they're talking about and how many times someone's been replaced at the presidency, etc., but I'm leaving it to you. When you talk about objects that are legalized or not, or are illegally built, I will remind you, and I have to go back to that and that's what we're trying to correct now, it's a law that we're going to have to say, your Minister Dulic is making, and he's about to build right now. The biggest problem in building with illegally built buildings occurred during Minister Dulic's ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4528	Thank you. The word is Olga Batic, please. My colleague's waiting 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4529	Thank you very much. Finally. Dear Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the right to tell you that when I read all these 312 pages in detail, and how many numbers this Report of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has only then become completely clear to me the first party signed by the prime minister. Among other things, it says that the above - mentioned Report is presented to the National Assembly with a proposal to consider it, and I repeat the review at the session of the National Assembly by emergency procedure. When an act enters the congregation procedure, it is common for consideration and adoption to stand. I don't think this is about oversight, I think it's about intent and real intention. I will, of course, commend that intention. First of all, it is the caution of Mr. Vukic, his responsibility, but I can also say the respect of all the MPs and, whether they come from the ranks of the opposition, whether they come from the ranks of the position, and all for the reason that certain reports of individual ministers representing this comprehensive report in their assembly, of course, the Prime Minister himself is not pleased, so the fine man took, collected these reports, took responsibility, brought here, although I expected a much larger number of ministers, but today there are far fewer ministers than expected to hear what his government thinks about the composition of the control body, which is, of course, the National Assembly. Of course, I'll try to take a turn. They are not my first clear findings, frequent statements by MPs that they will plead, that they will vote or will not vote in favour of the Report, because on the first page, as I said, there is no record of voting on the Report. We're just reviewing the report and there's every point. I've already explained, it's not an illusion. It's an intention. Some argue that there are figures in the report, that they are filled with some data, that there are pictures, charts. You see, in its form, one report must represent it, because otherwise it wouldn't be a report, just clarifications for the sake of it. All of this with all these tables, graphs, digits, which in total represents what's called a report, I share, I look, I read into three groups. First, they are reports that are extremely good reports where everything that was done is taxed, not just as some map where there was, where it was, but absolutely everything that was done, the measures that were taken and what was just going to be taken, which primarily refer to the vaults. I first list those reports that I consider to be of great quality, and such reports are reports by Minister Gasic, Minister Stefanovic, Selakovic, Mrs Mihajlovic. Of course, I'm going to commend the government's General Secretariat's report, I think it's exceptional, as well as Mr. Udovic and Mr. Tasovac's reports. The second category of Reports according to my own personal conviction, and I will allow myself, of course, to be personal in that group, to classify those reports that hardly deserve a transitional assessment, which are reports, I must mention, of course, and use the present one, to me here favorite minister, Mr Velimir Ilic, then the Kori Udovicki and Lazar Krstic's report, now former minister. The other reports I didn't mention don't deserve any special commendations, they don't deserve special or plight. I can hardly boast as good. After all, what I think is good is that there is no point in even praising something excessively, but some of the reports are inconclusive, some of the reports in certain parts contain incorrect data, and some of the ministries couldn't even score in their reports, and that was easy to do, of course, only that they presented everything they were supposed to do and did not do and that they included in their reports everything that was in their domain and their portfolio, and unfortunately, this report showed that they simply did not know their own responsibilities. I'll try to take some turns. The finance minister's report, I say former Finance Minister Lazar Krstic, began by 100, so the finance minister said -- at the headquarters of the Treasury Office, there were certain persons who were constantly available. You see, this is completely incorrect. When I call or when I call or you call tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, there's a good chance that absolutely no one will answer you all day. Of course, it is said further in Mr Krstic's report – it is possible for all beneficiaries of the budget to make their payments. I'm sorry, since everyone is presenting myself, so should I, Olgica Batić, citizen of Obrenovac, flooded area of course. I'd have to tell Mr. Krstic if he were here to say, "Look, Mr. Krstic, it doesn't work in Obrenovac." There are absolutely no payments made, until recently we were unable to make any payments. It says – there is a law in preparation to regulate the way, record and control the receipt and spending of funds. This is an excellent, almost epochal idea of former Minister Krstin, only it had to be done first, then entered into this report. It is said further – a quick donation bill has been opened, so it is said to be paid 500,000 euros. Great, here's the question – and where is the money, how much has it been spent, is it possible that the non-intentional units of local self-government, who was given money, who was helped by this money? Of course, is there any place like Obrenovac, Krupanja and other flooded areas? Then it is said that the tax returns instead of 15.5. can be accepted by 19.5. and that is in the former minister Lazar Krstic's report. It's all great, just that after that 19th of May, the IRS was able to get in, and watch out for miracles in the IRS in Obrenovac, there was even water on May 20th and there was no way into the tax administration building. I don't just know who these tax returns could be delivered to within that time limit. So much for the report of the gentleman, former Minister Krstic. As for the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, it is largely embarrassing that one ministry bearing the name, therefore, of state administrations and local self-government, gives its own report on the incomplete one-sided side. That's very unserious. You see, extremely unserious. So on page 120, there's a report from the State Department and local self-government. It states that twenty-four-hour duty is organized, of course the minister is not present, I would ask her – excuse me, and what is the benefit of that and what have we had of that twenty-four-hour organised duty at two locations, imagine, where the ministry is located? I think from that item and that detail this report would almost be completely unthinkable, and this is how it was designed. It is said to form a joint centre to support local self-government. Look, it's in Obrenovac, I come from Obrenovac, I go there every day, I sleep there, in what house can be called, actually in what's left of the house. They haven't heard of it there, or they don't know anything about it in Obrenovac. Then, it is said -- building the Public Policy Secretariat to develop a methodology for assessing damage. I find it very interesting and interesting when someone deals with the establishment of any secretariat, any public policy, it's just my question here again no, of course I won't get the answer: Who used this? Where did he use it? In what countries in similar situations has such a thing been used, etc.? Of course, a lot of people are asking questions, but you're not really responsible for such a thing, so it's illusory to ask you these questions. Finally, it is said, of course, that the state administration minister visited the agricultural area on two occasions. I'm sorry, more than embarrassing. The Minister of State Administration visits two times flooded areas, so it is taxatically listed which flooded areas and they can be listed on the fingers of one hand. Of course, as far as I'm concerned, it's a pleasure to come in, and it's also a well-known fact that we love our duels. He's, as resolutely competent for emergency situations, I don't argue that you've been going around, all honors, I'm almost fascinated by what you said on page 117 on May 17th, where you've all been and I congratulate you on that, I couldn't physically stand it and go around all these places, so I'm twice as young as you, maybe even taller. But you put the report aside and a half. I think you were first invited to give out of all the ministries, except for this "difolt" ministry that was first invited to act like the police and the military. After them, your report was about to be the most abundant. Of course, the report does not state the effects, you do not specify concrete measures, you do not specify aid, you do not specify the assessment of the situation, you do not specify the predictability of the future situation, none of it is found. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, I have a grudge here. The first radical grudge, in fact I don't know how it could have happened at all, the Ministry of Agriculture, that when you list the areas, you say the flooded areas on page 73. – in the territories of cities and municipalities where the emergency situation is in effect, then you list: Šabac, Sremska Mitrovica, Ljig, Ub, Lajkovac, Osecina, Paracin, Mininica, Svilajnac, Smederjevska Palanka, Šid, Trstenik, Kosjerić, Bajina Basta, Krupanj, Mali Zvornik, Koceljeva, Vladimirs of all veterinary organisations, etc., I do not know if you know there was a flood in Obrenovac. Here, I'll finish, so feel free to answer me. So, in your report, Obrenovac is not mentioned as a flooded area. I think this report could have been far more complete when I said that some ministries could have scored really deserved to score, I was thinking about the Ministry of Agriculture, but of course your report had to for such a thing to get a higher grade, had to be more detailed, had to be more concrete, you know everything has a little bit, but nothing enough. Of course, not everything is covered or not covered, so let's say that you have a side of 73 that I mentioned the flooded area of Obrenovac is not on your map, in your ministry, the state of the slaughter facilities, the state of the processing facilities, the state of the livestock. Of course, I have to give you an example. You have two private veterinary stations in Obrenovac. One of them was only a day earlier, so in 15.5., the State's programme of protection and livestock measures ended, and that is why there is no infection in Obrenovac. That's what I'm saying on purpose. I'm not going to tell you what station it is, so you don't have to be subjective or I'd be honored. You see that same station was flooded, and already on May 22, they got a warrant from the Veterinary Authority, that same veterinary station, to organize the service. It's the same veterinary station that received a group of international veterinarians who came to help, they did. It's for all praise. In this place, since my time is running out, I will use it to commend primarily the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the volunteer, who unfortunately have not come across treatment in many local self-governments, which they should have come across, decent, young people, eager and ready to help people in need. But in the end, I have to mention here that there's much better organized veterinary than health care in Obrenovac, imagine. The help of the peasants, the seeds of the garbage, the oil, none of it. So you had to be more efficient, and you had to be more inventive. Of course, when it comes to this report, I think if this report, which in its total represents individual ministers who make up the government of the Republic of Serbia, is a measure of the work of each minister individually, I think that Prime Minister Vukic could immediately reshuffle and four, five ministers immediately after it has proved not morally responsible for resigning on his own. At the very end, I have to mention, since a report by the Hydrometeorological Institute begins on 123 pages, my question, and I wonder all the time since we received the report, I don't know who the Hydrometeorological Institute has written any warnings about, why he wrote, what the effect and who he wrote about. Of course, I've pointed out all of this, and I think the citizens of the Obrenovac know this very well. Since time limits me, I think that now that you say that the emergency situation in Obrenovac is extended and lasts for the next five years nothing would change because the situation in Obrenovac is far from regular, far from normal. What matters most is that first of all, what I said, I don't speak as a MP, I don't use politically, I say this as a citizen of the Obrenovac, as someone who grew up there, as someone whose home is there, as someone whose family is there, as someone who's there every day. Unfortunately, Obrenovac as a city no longer exists. All that's left of Obrenovac is the only municipal government left, and I have to be completely honest with you, and to the comments of some colleagues who have respected much of it here, that the obstetric government is what the DS, the URS and the SPS coalition are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4530	The word is Marko Djurisic, and be prepared by Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4531	Thank you esteemed presidents, present ministers, fellow MPs, I've been eager to wait for this discussion and spend the whole day in an O.R. with a desire to get an answer to some questions that have plagued me since the day of the emergency. I felt like there was something wrong. This report, which we received two weeks ago, begins by saying that on 15 May at 11.00 p.m., an extraordinary session of the Republic Emergency Staff was held at which it was proposed to declare an emergency which was announced at the cabinet session at 13,00 p.m. and declared. Then this report mostly deals with things that have happened since that moment but there are also some things that have happened in the days before. These are the reports of the Hydrometeorological Institute that counterpart Batic spoke of earlier, and now it looks black here on this paper. This black in nature is red and means that the especially dangerous weather phenomena of such intensity are projected to pose a danger to the safety of humans and animals. This first warning issued on May 12th says that on May 14th and 15th, such occasions will be predicted. My question that I asked Prime Minister Vukic, who unfortunately is not here when we were here the only time we've spoken here when the government's answers to parliamentary questions were – why the emergency situation has not been declared before. He replied that there has never been an emergency in Bosnia and Croatia throughout the territory. That's not an answer for me. I wanted to get an answer, why was the Emergency Staff formed only on May 15th, when an emergency situation was declared in 18 municipalities a day earlier? Why was the emergency not declared until May 13th? Floods are an elemental accident that can happily be predicted in part. The volume of rainfall, so you can predict what's going to happen. Earthquakes aren't that kind of elemental accident. Fire too. The Emergency Law says the emergency situation for the Republic of Serbia, or part thereof, is declared if there is a direct danger of being affected, or if at least two municipalities have already been affected. This is where things happened and situations where hours and minutes had a big decision. If something had been done a day or two earlier, maybe some life would have been saved, maybe some material damage would have been less. Of course it couldn't have prevented everything, but some of it did. I wanted to, and I waited for this debate to get answers to those questions. Since the prime minister is not here today, although he has announced that he will be when this debate is held. There's not even the Home Secretary here all day. I'm afraid I won't get answers to those questions. We heard, when I read this report I could also see where Minister Velimir Ilic was. Then I asked the question, too, where was the Minister of Emergency. There are two sides to this report where all the ministers were. But the minister said today, to me, one fragrant thing. The Minister of Emergency said it was such a situation that we had to give everything to the Prime Minister. Here's the decision on the education of the Republic Emergency Staff since May 15th. For commander Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, for Commissioner Predrag Maric, and for members of all government ministers. Mr. Wolfie's nowhere to be found. Mr. Wolfich was neither a headquarters commander nor a staff member. Then the question arises in what capacity he addressed to the citizens of all those days. We all watched on television directly transmitted session of the Republic Emergency Staff and watched Mr. Vukic's address. I was sure at that point that he was the commander, but he wasn't the commander. What I also wanted to ask, again today, since I asked that question on the Committee on Defence and Security, which we had on July 4th, what about four missing persons, who we heard that it was also such a number, I think, on May 29th. So first the minister who was at that session told me, no more missing persons. After 20 minutes, he was still up and said he had two more. I wanted to know if something had changed in the last 11 days. I wanted to talk to you about why no civil protection mobilization was declared. The Emergency Act clearly defines the existence of civil protection. On the Committee, we could hear, among other things, that in the last year the Emergency Sector can't get equipment for 1,000 civil protection members, as much as it's trained, and it's supposed to be 8,000. I think these are serious things that require an answer. Because what I agree with also Minister Stefanovic and the Chief of Staff, who said that things like this are waiting for us in the future. The climate has changed and we will face more and more natural disasters. I was going to ask, when did the Gerdup drop start? As I recall, it was somewhere when an emergency situation was declared 15 or 16 and it lasted almost two weeks. I remember that news that the drop was over and that it was brought down to the lowest level. I'm not professional enough, but I'm sure it helped to make sure that the water supply on the Danube doesn't cross any dangerous border, as well as the water supply on Savi. And whether it was done a day, two or three earlier, and it could have been already 12 May, when the first warning from the Hydrometeorological Institute was issued. Could it have been reduced somewhere by any damage? These are questions that we must answer, that is, this government that was responsible for the work of the Republic headquarters.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4532	You're way out of time. Thank you. First Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4533	I'm sorry you don't trust local self-government and local headquarters, which you've shown now. So, on May 12th, when RHMZ gave its first report, do you really think the local headquarters haven't already organized. From this same report you read, then you could also see that long before May 15th, not much, but the day before May 15th, you had declared emergency situations in some municipalities where the assessment of local headquarters was that it should certainly be done. So it's not true that no one did anything, about how I could understand it. I'm sorry if I misunderstood until May 15th. What's amazing to me is that you ask in what capacity Alexander Vukic addressed to the citizens, in which he was at headquarters, in which capacity he was, there was something he said at all during the emergency situation when Serbia was struck by an incredible accident. Well, as Prime Minister. The Prime Minister takes care of the citizens of his country. The prime minister of one state should appear and speak at a time when such floods have taken place in Serbia. What's the problem? On the contrary, we should be proud to have a prime minister who isn't hard to be around with his citizens all the time. As for the other questions you've asked, I can't answer that, but I will insist that you receive a written answer from the competent ministries. It applies both to Gerdap and to the mobilization of civil protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4534	Thank you. The Republic was sought by Zoran Babic, as head of the parliamentary group. The president of the SNS is mentioned. He's got two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4535	Thank you, Madam President. And again, a double archaic and double standards, and again, demands that I can't really catch for the beginning or the end. Today, in the hall of the National Assembly, we heard the request of an opposition MP who said, "My God is not doing anything in the government, there are some dominus of ministers sitting there, so they have nothing to do, so they came to the congregation to sit." It does not suit you when the Minister comes to the Assembly, and you forget that the Assembly does not only have legislative but also control over the role of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't suit you when the government works, it doesn't suit you when the government doesn't work. It doesn't suit you when the ministers come, so tell me once what suits you. So tell me what you want. It didn't suit you when the Prime Minister of the Winters, Mr. Vukic, was on Fecketic when he interfered. Now it doesn't suit you why he interfered. So tell me once what you want to do. If you thought we were gonna tweet or text on social networks instead of helping people, that's not what we're gonna do. We will always be with the citizens, we will always be with those who are threatened, always the Prime Minister will do his job, and if you mind what in those days of great misfortune for our citizens, was also on the walls of Cevrentije and on the Black Bar and in Obrenovac, reached both Koceljeva and Veran. If you have a problem with that engagement, then tell me what you want. But just once have some normal and same standards at the beginning of the debate and at the end of the debate, and let the government do the responsible work that it did. I was listening today, you know why a crisis headquarters was formed like this in Capco? Instead of saying thank God, thank the government of the Republic of Serbia, because Shabac is defended, not who is the head of the crisis headquarters or why the Chief of Staff is engaged in the Shappac himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4536	Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic called before, has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4537	National MP Olgica Batic asked me if I knew where Obrenovac was, probably prompted by a report from the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. Of course I know where the Obrenovac is. I think there was a misunderstanding because this report was written before the emergency situation in Obrenovac was lifted. In fact, I as a minister and my services were able to enter Obrenovac later than the report was written. The water in Obrenovac, as you know, slowly retreated. Our services couldn't work. I've been to Obrenovac twice. For the first time I was when the water was still high enough and our services couldn't react. So, I'm talking about the services that are in charge of resuscitating the ground. During that time, in the vans, or those gendarmerian jeeps, I went through Obrenovac and I saw all the damage and all the conditions of the accident that hit the citizens of Obrenovac, and that was the most difficult impression I had, i.e. from all the flooded areas, and I was in many areas. I've really been hit the most by the state and what's happening in Obrenovac. The second time I was when the water was already retreating and our competent services were able to operate in the field. So, the Veterinary Authority, the veterinary inspection, in collaboration with the veterinary institutes, disinfected the terrain of the surrounding villages, that was the deal, that the disinfection and association of the city area would be the competent health ministry, and this surrounding area, the suburban settlements belonged to our ministry. I've been to these places myself. All of this was recorded by television teams and shown on local and state media. In the end, I would also like to say that I have personally received a thank-you note from General Bozovic after all this, as a token of the gratitude that I and my ministry have done in the association as a result of the flood in the area of Obrenovac, and if I had known, I would have brought it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4538	The word is Mr Velimir Ilic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4539	To answer the question, I would say that on 14 May, when the flood began on full swing, I received a solution from the prime minister that I was appointed minister without a portfolio for emergency situations. I had no right to receive any official until it was done from the budget reserve to raise funds for the cabinet of the minister, so the emergency situation met me without any employees. It is true that the prime minister appointed ministers where anyone would go to the field, where it was most critical in those first days, and he told me that I was in charge of the Moravik district, first began – Luciani, Cačak, Cemernica, Dicin and Western Serbia. I went where the Prime Minister told me. The prime minister was in touch with us at 1 o'clock, and at 12 o'clock he called and asked about the state of the field – did he give in to the misery, what was, what was the situation, whether there were victims, etc. Of course, logistics was given by the military, Minister Gasic, police. We've all been in daily contact. In the municipality of Razanj during the day we obtained a Pontoon bridge, mounted a trafo station, flushed the water. Also, in the municipality of Ljig, Bajina Basta, well-known mayors, in the municipality of Kosjerić, were to obtain oil, there were no liters of oil, all the pumps were flooded, they were to be obtained in Požega, Lukani, they were to solve many cities throughout Serbia, Ljubovija, we all headed towards Krupnje and helped each other and were in daily contact. So I had no one to write me a report. Believe me, I was in the field. And I know exactly where I've been, there are reports, and now you're going to get projects and you can see that hill of paper. But I was alone, I didn't even have a driver. I couldn't take the driver because I didn't have the means to secure him. Many cabinets were not formed. But there was an extraordinary effort and exceptional co-operation between ministers. So, we fought. We were helped by ministers of other ministries, given their vehicles, transported and monitored with logistics all that was done. There's no point in asking little things now, it's been a difficult time, and it's logical for the prime minister to stand in such a difficult situation at the head and the most logical thing is for the prime minister to hold his first meeting and to control everything that was done, and for the president to get involved in the whole story. They've all turned it on. Believe me. But we couldn't answer it. For example, I remember when I was in Paracino, the Svilinca, there was no water, no electricity, no mobile, no base stations - nothing works. It wasn't that simple. When I came to Baji's Garden, there were 500-600 rinks there, that Minister Mihajlovic knows better. People were panicking, skating hills, disappearing rivers, going roads, melting, citizens getting scared, houses disappearing. There was a complex situation in which a maximum was made to do something at that time. Now is the easiest time to criticize. But we did everything we could to save what could be saved. Of course, we just got here. Let's not talk about failures now – and that's what happened, etc. It is certain that everything was wrong and that it could have been prevented and that is why we are fighting now, what the Deputy Prime Minister was talking about – prevention. Prevention is extremely important and important, so that we don't get into situations like this. I repeat, I also think as much as I recall the Ministry of Energy did not form a cabinet when it was an emergency. It's just that there was no time. Because it happened in one storm, at one point when the government formed itself, it built up. I can tell you that I remember the night we were on the rivers, all night I was called by the Prime Minister and asked for information – is it just a bed, is it just a bed, let me know if it broke, when it broke, etc? The people came to defend, whether or not they would defend, the people stayed on the roofs of the houses, General Dikovic sent helicopters, perhaps you remember when people were coming off the roofs, when people wouldn't leave the houses and property. It was a difficult situation. Now imagine if you could convince an old lady to tie her up with a cable and carry her on a helicopter for example 500 meters, take her off some terrace and take her out to dry where there's no flood, etc. Do you believe me, I watched when on the Chemer, one little word, no boat was able to hold on for more than one minute? It was so lush. You can't believe how hard that was. No boat. If it wasn't for helicopters and armies, there would have been a lot more casualties, but like this, thanks to everyone, they did everything they could. I'm glad no one's been making a question and parties and who's the mayor, even though it's bothering me if it's potential right now. I remember in Paracino, for example, I found the mayor that he slept in his cabinet on a mattress and there was an emergency, people did as much as they could, someone knew, someone didn't know, who knew he did more. So thank you, and I'm glad that all this is over, maybe the best that could be done, and let this be a lesson for the future, that much more work is done to prevent it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4540	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4541	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, to bring an end to today's session and what should be concluded by today's plenary session, it is that this report is precise, detailed, but for the current situation when writing is quite sufficient. What is still to be pointed out is that the ministries had no defined form of how these reports should look and that is why we are coming into a situation that some reports are detailed and really consistent with those forms that we are used to getting in the Serbian Parliament, and some are simply not. What we need to say is that we should be proud of having a responsible government and prime minister, because, I will give you an example, last year, Germany was hit by the same floods and the prime minister raised complete certainty in terms of flood defence, although the damage was only 100m euros for one Germany, but it was on the ground all the ministers worked in the post of flood defence. In the end, it should be said that certain committees have considered these reports, as we have heard, but not all the committees on which the reports stand have been considered. One of the committees is the Committee on Environmental Protection, because there was simply no material in the report itself to consider it. Why are we saying this? Because however, the Assembly did do something to support the government, or only the Ministry of Environment and Agriculture, which is that it maintained public listening to the assessment of damages and methodologies, a general assessment of the damage that should have been an integral part of a practical report, based on which a financial plan would have been made. My question is do you have any knowledge of the state of the sanitary waste dumps, which have seven, which have been built in co-operation with the EU? Do we know that some are located on potential slides? If they are, are they skating or not? Does the Ministry of Environment have information? The second part is the one relating to that damage assessment from the ecological aspect -- did it enter this 1.5 billion-euro record? This is important to us both as information because of the position and because of the opposition, because as MPs, we wanted to make our contribution precisely through the Environment Protection Committee. The second part of the question, if we talked about the recovery of the ground from animal waste – were certain private calories involved in the collection of this waste and the recovery of that waste? You know, when we talk about the economy and when we talk about the companies that took part in that recovery, if they come from the private sector, it's a kind of profit for them, and maybe in an adequate way they can repay the state for getting a repromatter with which they're going to go out on the commercial market. These are some details that really in this economic sense give us a great incentive to really do everything in the future to minimise this damage, and to build people new houses and become a new city of Obrenovac, not a dead city, but to get a new future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4542	Thank you. The People's MP, Olga Batic, came forward. On what basis do you want the word? (Olgica Batić, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4543	You gave everyone the right...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4544	What argument is that? I gave everyone the right only when there was a basis. Under Article 104(3), the President of Parliament decides whether the conditions for replication have been met. There were no offensive terms according to attitude 1. Read it. (Olgica Batić, from town: There were misreadings. I didn't give you my word. People's MP Marko Djurisic came forward for the word. On what basis do you want the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4545	Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4546	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4547	Madam Minister misread my presentation, Article 104, item 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-16-0.u4548	Read the full article 104. I'm a lawyer. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: He says – if the exhibition is misread. I invite you to conduct yourself well and to the dignity of Parliament. Don't speak out loud with the chairman. That's how we agreed at the meeting of the heads of Parliament. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: No, we didn't agree. ( ) Read attitude 3. Who decides on the right to the replica. You have no right to a replica. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint review of the proposals for acts referred to in points 3 and 4 of the agenda. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric.
