ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11651	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 107 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 116 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Miljana Nikolic, Momo Colaković and Dr Dijana Vukomanovic. I continue my work and move on to the search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND APPLICATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2014. For the purposes of Article 90(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to all the members of the Government, I have been invited to attend the meeting today by Nenad Mijailović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Jelena Rancic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour, Employment, Boračko and Social Affairs, Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt Administration at the Ministry of Finance, Dragica Jovanovic, Assistant Director of the Treasury Department at the Ministry of Finance, Milica Danilović, Director of the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance, Nada Mirković, Assistant Minister of Finance, Stanimirka Mijailović, Senior Advisor at the Public Enterprise in the Ministry of Finance, Svetlana Kuzmanovic, Senior Advisor at the Office of Finance in Finance, Slavica Manojlović, Senior Advisor at the Office of Finance and Finance in the Treasury. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavićevic, Gordana Komić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Borislav Stefanović, Dragan Šutanovic, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Mr Dejan Capo, Dr Blažje Bradić, Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremnod, Zoltan Pek, Anamarija Vicek, Dragan Jovanovic, Nenad Canak, Nada Lazić, Đorđe Sotjić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Ivan Karic, as well as the amendment submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. In writing, the amendments were withdrawn by MPs Ivan Karic, on Article 7 and MPs Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamarija Vicek to Article 7. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11652	It is true that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives made a good decision because a technical error in this amendment and in the next amendment that comes from our group, which is that in this section we failed to change the amount that defines the total level of funding in that division, but the bottom line is that our idea with this amendment was that close to five billion dinars from economic subsidies, that figure was foreseen for these subsidies, 17 billion and 708 million, etc. thousands, to cut it to 12 billion 738 million, and to transfer that money to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, where the amount foreseen by this year's budget would be 256 billion and 100 million dinars. This would create conditions for not reducing pensions in this year, i.e. the total mass of pensions, i.e. the grant from the budget for the PIO Fund, to be kept at the level foreseen by the budget and thus to protect pensioners, these 600,000 who are not by the grace of God and the former Prime Minister of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, from reducing pensions. This technical error is unfortunately such as to disqualify our amendment, but I still hope at this point that the minister may understand the essence of the amendment and that some further changes will bring about solutions that will be good. The reduction of pensions to the expense of subsidies to a failed economy, is the setting of a pensioner on a pillar of shame, on the defendant's bench, to the place of those who are guilty of everything that is wrong in this country. Multi-annual promises of various authorities, including this last one, that the economy will be resolved, that the enterprises in restructuring will be rehabilitated, that they will start working, that "Sartid" is about to start working tomorrow, so the smokes are released that like there's something going on there, like there's production, pre-election smokes to raise hope, I think that, and not only "Sartid" but also in many other companies, is one behaviour that has to be interrupted. Serbian citizens, including workers working in these companies, have a clear knowledge that for many reasons they hide above all in a disastrous 90-year-old policy, many of the former gigans have now become practically old iron, that the world has changed, that the world's market has changed. Many producers who could place their goods in the 1990s, or 90s, can't do it anymore because traditional markets are lost, because some countries have become technologically superior to us. By 1990, we were selling China whatever we wanted. We sold shoes to the Soviet Union, and that source was measured by tons. So it didn't matter what they were buying, it mattered not what they were buying, it mattered that there were any shoes. In the meantime, that changed. In the meantime, these are countries that are now technologically far ahead of us and many of our products that had a market there can't find the market again. That's why these factories, that's why these companies, companies can't find their place anymore. Of course it was the policy of the '90s, which put Serbia out of the world and any technological development. We, thanks to this policy, have remained detained in the second half of the 20th century, and now we are deep in the second decade of the 21st century. These are objective reasons and the citizens of Serbia know it absolutely well. It is not possible to resolve the issue of these companies by keeping them forever on subsidies, which is to the detriment of pensioners and people who are seriously doing their jobs and whose salaries will be reduced by this law, but must find these difficult but final solutions after which a new cycle and industrialisation and development of the economy can begin. With such measures as palitative, where the subsidies are blamed for everything, nothing can be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11653	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11654	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as with all proposals, there is always a dilemma whether you will vote for the proposed proposal or not. It's not just the draft laws, it's the amendments. So, the definition of whether you vote or not depends solely on the persuasion of anyone who speaks. It doesn't even have to mean sometimes whether the one who spoke to you before spoke correctly or presented incorrect information. It also depends on whether the motionary votes for his amendments. So, multiple times, and you are my witnesses, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I voted in favour of the opposition's proposals, and even for the amendments to these motions, but something almost incredible happened, that on the day of the vote and at the time of the vote, I did not vote in favour of my amendments and not only not to vote, but also not to be present, it comes out of the hall, which therefore speaks of the challenger's suspicion of the quality of the amendment he himself submitted. If someone submits an amendment they don't want to vote for and doesn't want to be present at the time of the vote when they vote for his amendment, such a proposal, however it is, is no longer convincing to me. So, several times I tried to argue, and by the opposition, for some amendments to vote, but I found that these proposings do not vote for themselves. Here, as one of the reasons they're mentioned in the '90s. In the 1990 ’ s, for me, 1981, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, and 1989. That's nine decades for me, and that's for me in the '90s, and I'm afraid the amendment guy made a little bit of a mistake, because usually with our economists, and usually with politicians, in the '90s or 1989s, he measured for a better future. Usually people like to talk about some better years and what they want, they want to have the economic development and economic strength that it was until 1989. For me, it's the '90s, and I know what was produced, what was exported, but after the '90s, they came in 2000. After 2000, some ten years came. For fourteen years, someone ruled and had the opportunity to repair all economic parameters. He didn't do it, he just broadcast social rights that had no one to pay. Since there was no one to pay for it, this expenditure was compensated by the sale of total social capital, and when it wasn't enough, there were then, and among them was a proposal proposed by this amendment, for these broadcasting rights, which had no one to pay, when there wasn't enough social capital, when everything was sold out for what, when there wasn't enough money for it, then they resorted to borrowing, i.e. raising credit, and thus only problems were delayed for the future and today those who almost killed the Serbian economy, those who had completely devastated it with the help of their party friends, today they are calling out and saying that it was once, that they were all guilty of the 1990s, and mostly, as I said, in the 1990s we had some economic development and some economic power that we lost, and more we lost not because of sanctions. So, compared to sanctions and bombings, we lost more since 2000 than we lost in 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, until 1999. I think in 2000, we had a real tsunami, that we had an economic disaster that was followed by huge expenditures that had no one to pay for, and so I can't support this amendment. In the future, I will well consider whether any amendment, regardless of the persuasion and the conviction of the speakers, will support these proposals, given that Serbia is too serious to be left to them again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11655	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment was not accepted at the Committee's session first because it is technically not correct, and for every amendment that is technically not correct, I claim that it is of a political nature and I don't mind that fellow Members write such amendments. However, this is about something that, on the one hand, when you add something to someone, you have to take something from someone, so I'm asking if this amendment is taking away salaries from employees, say, in Sartide, do you take salaries from employees at Trayal, do you take salaries from the "Tiger" employees in Piroth? So whenever you take something away from some people you have to leave without any income. I have listed only some companies that can stand on their feet and for which there is a certain future and perspective for their employees. For Sartid, I argue that at that moment it was the worst form of privatisation that was made right during the government of the applicant for the amendment. There's a second question. When you take away the part that's planned for real sector employees' earnings, you're still making a lack of money in the PIO Fund, from which pensions are paid, and there's a lack of money in the Health Protection Fund. You know, the economy works on the principle of joint courts, and that's what the former Prime Minister should know. So if you subtract from one side, you have to look at all the consequences in sequence. Whether it's a linear function or a square function, it's a different story now. Whether it's arithmetic or geometrical progression, it's also another story, but I don't think it's the consequence of what this amendment can do badly. Only good – well, we'll make a story about how we take care of the openers. One more thing. We can take that away this year. I ask the question, by the technology of their government by 2012, they've always taken something away, sold to finance, what are we going to sell when we sell it all out? It was a question that troubled me until 2012. It's just, fortunately, now some other government is wondering, and that question doesn't bother me anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11657	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. You'll get, there's still a series of speakers, but I don't see the basis for that replica. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Ask him if he meant me. I can't ask who you meant by that. So he wasn't thinking about you, about someone in your area maybe. The word is made by MP Goran Kovacevic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11658	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not disputed that this amendment is quite difficult to implement technically, but it is also not disputed that this amendment can clearly reflect the idea of these opposition MPs who have proposed the amendment. If you look at the amendment, it concerns the spent foreign budget. If you look at this expenditure side of the budget, you'll see that in the economic classification of four -- employee expenditures, you have the allocations that are 24.7% of the total expenditure in one fiscal year. The economic classification of 462, relating to the transfer to the basic institutions, is 26.3%, i.e. to translate, is 89.64% of the total pensions. You have other social benefits of 10.57%. You have transfers amounting to 6.9%, which usually go also for wages. You have subsidies that are 8.9% of the economy and they also mostly go to pay salaries in some public enterprises and companies. You have 10.36% of the expenditure relating to the economic classification of 472, and interest, and they are the result of taking out loans for payment, first of all, wages and pensions. The government of the Republic of Serbia for the past five months, as well as the previous government, has done nothing to make these separations and social obligations bigger. This amendment requires that subsidies of 17 billion and 708 million dinars, which concern businesses, be reduced by nearly five billion, i.e. by four billion and 980 dinars. If this amendment were to be accepted, then we would be in a position to increase the salary amount by only 2% and raise from 89.64% to 91.5%, but therefore the subsidies for the economy would be drastically reduced by about 22%. If you look from the point of view of the budget, this amendment is completely fiscally neutral and it leaves no consequences for budget functioning, there are no macroeconomic changes, but it sends a social message that from the part of the subsidies for the economy that we need to put away, the funds that mostly go for wages and transfer them to pensioners. It's completely legitimate and it's nothing controversial. Of course, employees in the economy will have fewer salaries and pensioners will have more. What is good for me in principle, though this technical amendment can hardly be acceptable, is the idea that change is necessary. Amendmentproposers were probably on the verge of the idea of the economy minister, the finance minister, the prime minister, who said this was only the first, initial step. The next step is to reduce subsidies, thus reducing economic subsidies. There will be cuts in both transfer funds and use of assets, so something similar to this amendment will already be included in the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11659	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11660	Too bad this amendment isn't technically correct, so it can't be accepted. I'm sure he'd improve the budget rebalancing he proposed. What is also found in Article 1 is now a reduction in value added tax, a VAT which reduces by 32 billion dinars with this rebalancing. We think it was supposed to be the ministry's first step towards finding funds to reduce deficits. If we look, and here some data of the Fiscal Council were used, but not all of them, there is in one report of the Fiscal Council the efficiency of VAT collection from 2006 to 2014, so in 2006, this efficiency was 85.4%, 85.9% in 2007, 83.4%, 2009 dropped to 78.3%, and 79.3% in 2010, 78.3% in 2011, 79.7% in 2012 and then in 2013 73.2%. That smaller percentage in numbers is 30 billion dinars. Practically, 30 billion dinars is two-thirds of what the state intends to save on the coat of arms of pensioners and workers, 40 billion dinars a year. Gentlemen, make the tax administration as efficient as it was in 2012, nothing more. Try to be efficient that much and you'll have 30 billion dinars in your budget. Be better than us, be like that time in 2006-2007 85%, you'll have 50, 60 billion dinars in the budget more and you won't have to cut wages and pensions. The previous colleague said – this is the first step. In his exposé, the prime minister said that the pension strike would be the last step, when there was no other way anymore, and the finance minister said more than once – this is the first step. There is this political inconsistency that we criticise and why we cannot support these laws. You didn't, gentlemen, do everything before you hit wages and pensions. I can understand why that is. You've made this rebalancing and these bill proposals so you can get a deal with the IMF. The problem is that obviously the IMF has no confidence in you, so the measure that was supposed to be the last one – the reduction of wages and pensions, you had to make at the beginning. I'm not saying it might just be this government's fault. The question is, would any other government at this time trust the IMF, but that's a fact. Because of the IMF, they're on pay and pension first, so we're listening to subsidies next year, so I don't know what year we're going to be the number of employees in public enterprises. We're going the wrong way, and that's why we can't support these legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11661	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment. You only have two minutes left. You've talked about the first amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11662	Smart enough for two minutes. So, we're going to make amends to this amendment, and we're going to change those inter-groups that are now missed, so it's going to be technically correct, so you're going to have a chance to vote for the amendment and to define yourself for that, and I expect first of all from your colleagues from PUPS, because they haven't been able to do it themselves, that our offer, our proposal for a solution, where we're going to protect 600,000 of their colleagues from constitutional retirement cuts, that they're going to vote for that amendment. Of course, I don't always expect the congregation's majority to support what we're proposing, because that's how it's decided somewhere and there's no more talking. What I was about to say, and it is about Sartid, is possible that this reduction and subsidies for Sartid would be less than is foreseen by this rebalancing and many other collectives that are only a political measure to promote the current government. If you want to solve Sartid, then it is resolved as it was resolved in 2003. Ask anyone from Smederev and here present MPs who had already said this, how the Sartid was solved, how the people who worked there worked from 2003 to 2005-2006, were they satisfied with the conditions of work, were they satisfied with the salaries, do they remember the economists sitting in these chairs today in front of the chairman who was the biggest exporter and the biggest taxpayer of the budget in those years? That's how problems are solved, not by blowing smokes before elections and promising people what's absolutely impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11663	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Shormaz, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11664	To report to the MP who talked about it, but let's just say that this has nothing to do with this amendment, I don't know why the story spread to it, it's not about subsidies, but let's say when it's mentioned. While US Steel was in Smederevo, Smederevo was probably the city with the best standard in Serbia. Yes, "US Steel" worked great, but it's not about "US Steel", it's about the way privatisation was conducted, i.e. I've said it many times. God forbid something is ever privatised in such a way as it was through a bankruptcy procedure where the right of jurisdiction was taken from the Fire Department or today to the Trade Court and transferred to Belgrade. At a very low price, the factory was sold, although I would agree that it was sold for one dollar, but all the debts of the factory that were created in earlier years were transferred to the budget, i.e. to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to return equally either to live in Smedereva, the King, and so on. What is worse, we recently heard a question about how to solve the situation, how to help the Fiat, from those who did not help US Steel to stay in Smedereva. Now I say for the first time, I know that "US Steel" offered the remaining model in Serbia to the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, who was not accepted because of the 2012 elections, and "US Steel" then left Serbia. The government has now left the problem with Serbia, this government to solve, but thank God, there is another serious American company, the "Esmark style", which we expect by the end of the year to come to Smederevo, to come to "Gelezara" and that "Gelezara" will again be Serbia's largest exporter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11665	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment, the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I couldn't bear not to take another word for it. They usually say that our people have a short memory, I understand that it will be in six months, a year, maybe two, that the Serbian people are a very good people because they can forgive, so he has forgiven and held them in power for 12 years. But I can't understand a fellow MP who has amnesia that only lasts 24 hours. So, from 24 hours ago, she starts. The Prime Minister has been reading to you who he's been charging everything for the last year, the last five months. He charged taxes from Miroslav Miskovic, whom Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic went on his feet when he said - if you do not postpone my tax payment, I will close "Delta". He was on his feet. When it comes to the tax administration, since you want it so much and you are so interested in it, we will organise as a Committee on Finance Public Listening as the Tax Administration worked from 2008 to 2012, so you will be given the name and last name of which tax control was made, as the tax base was established, as the case ended in the drawer, who is in charge and who is responsible for why it ended up in the drawer. Only one part of it was read by the Prime Minister. You were not allowed into the company of Mr. Miskovic's son to step foot, and now you're talking about what your tax administration was like. Now you're talking about what your tax administration was like. I'm not just saying this because of the citizens, I'm not just talking about the public, I'm talking about those respectable businessmen, those little ones who pay taxes not in a day, but in a second and who have supported this country and your incompetent government. That's what you seem to be forgetting. I don't know what you think of Serbian citizens when you're trying to sell them a story like this. Don't worry about it, you'll have exactly all the data on which the tax procedure was carried out, tax checks, how much these solutions were, how they disappeared both from VAT and from services and from capital gains, of all things. As far as I know from "Luke Belgrade" you were not allowed to charge at all, you were not allowed in there. So, when we have all that information, I'm asking you to step out for the pay phone and admit whether you were right or wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11667	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11668	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honourable ministers, respected presidents of the National Assembly, I ask for one previous intervention. I answered the word after the last amendment and let me explain to you what happened. It was only now that I noticed that the system shut me down, which I've already gotten used to, but I'm asking you to correct that mistake and make sure I use my five minutes to talk about the previous amendment, because I think it's really essential for our debate today. It's not my fault, it's the system's fault, and I believe it's the right thing to do, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11669	I can't go back, since the debate on the first amendment is closed. We've already moved on to another one, you've got the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11670	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the honourable ministers in the government, in resignation, as I understand it, the Honored President of the National Assembly, I also submitted an amendment to Article 1 which is carrying out some sort of different redistribution of funds compared to what was the Government's proposal. In particular, I have to say that the amendment of the NS simply seems to me that MPs of the advanced party go extensively into an interpretation, that the amendment of the NS MPs provides that subsidies in the economy are reduced by five billion, and that the five billion will be transferred to the Republic Fund of PIO, which will be 256 billion and 130 million. Dear gentlemen, we predict that the money that goes for the wrong subsidy policy so far be reduced to return to the pensioners who are illegally deprived of money of this bill and what happened? It happened that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives noted that this amendment was technically incorrect as it had been incorrect and earlier. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have decided to make a correction to this amendment, which ensures that all MPs who are bothered only by the technical failure, this technical failure no longer exists and that in the day of voting we are voting for a technically correct amendment, which was contained as I have suggested. I have one more thing to notice. I do not understand how the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is very fine, precisely notices one technical error in one amendment, and neither the Committee, nor this National Assembly notices that in an unconstitutional and illegal manner they are reducing these proposals for a pension law to our pensioners. I got in these two, three days so many letters and e-mails from pensioners, that in my life, when I look at how much these texts came to me, it doesn't seem like so much. Here's an example of the Honorable President. I'm using time by amendment now. Here's what the pensioners say. At one of the previous meetings of the Assembly, and this is what I think is essential for our amendment -- two SNS, Arsic and Djukanovic MPs, expressed their impression for a decade. They said they knew the state of government was bad, but they didn't realize it was so catastrophic, because they found out that there were a huge number of employees who didn't come to work at all, as well as a huge number of people sitting around in offices and doing nothing, they don't know how to work, and they get salaries. So, these pensioners remind me of something that was said by Mr Arsic and Djukanovic. What do the pensioners say, gentlemen? They say -- however, authorities have not defined themselves to deal with this malignant problem, have not decided to reduce the number of these party employees, some kind of people who didn't deserve to be there. He says, instead of recording these surpluses by name and last name everywhere they are, which was my expectation, the authorities here decided to illegally, unconstitutionally reduce our pensions to our pensioners. The new party cannot accept such an approach, and therefore we propose to reflect once again on the first amendment to Article 1 and on this second amendment to Article 1 in order for the legislative body to be governed by the law and the Constitution. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11671	The word has a minister, Dr Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11672	All I'd like is a commentary on the essence. Even if the correct technical side remains essential. This discussion has been held since the last week of October and so far a large part of the funds have either been used or hired for certain payments. In the first amendment, which you spoke of, a large part, the majority of these funds, over 90% has already been hired to pay commitments from previous years to subsidise interest received by the economy. Therefore, there is no such thing as a reduction in this location. These are simply the means that are needed and this explanation is written on page 17, I think, explanations. If you look at page 17 – security of additional funds, it is detailed. So that we don't bother the citizens and the others and the other MPs here, please take a look at that explanation. So those funds are already put here because they're obligations that have already arrived. These funds were used to subsidise interest between high market interest on those which were necessary, which were qualified, received those funds. In addition, these are funds for underground exploitation of Resavica, these are funds for the Public Television Service, which, among other things, gives all of you and us the opportunity to explain to the public what we think, reconciliation of obligations towards recyclingrs, etc. So these are assets already engaged or spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11673	Thank you. I'm asking the departments to look into the system. Go to the second unit, I don't think you'll be able to make it, because there are five people in the system, only five waiting on the screen. (Employor Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Please do not forget me. I can't forget you. It's just a matter of work. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11674	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order for our viewers to have no delusions, this is not about a corrected technical lack of amendments, no one has corrected that. So, as far as I understand myself in the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, you can submit an amendment to the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. So if you didn't do it before the board meeting, you can't submit to the sitting itself an amendment to your amendment. If someone wanted to propose a technically correct amendment, he had a chance all the way to the board's session. I am a farmer by profession, I'm not a peasant from the city, I'm not a peasant on temporary order, I'm not a winemaker, I didn't exactly stay at the heights of Fruska up, I'm a little lower, but I've been able to read the Rules of Procedure and respect the procedure of the National Assembly. If you propose an amendment that is not technically correct, it shall be rejected. If you want to technicalally correct this amendment, you must do so before the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Since the promoter didn't do it, he can't say it at the sitting itself – I've been thinking about it a little bit, here's the proposal for an amendment and it's all settled, only you're left to adopt. Of course I don't believe that they didn't really know that these corrections had to be made in time, but it's about a message, trying to text voters -- here we want to do it, and these won't accept. So, I think the proposer deliberately proposed a technically incorrect amendment to only verbally represent certain stocks, and in practice, instead of retired money is poured into some subsidies for non-existent plantings, for imaginary plantings on parcels that are purchased nine months later. In this way, you can't do it from the pensioners, let's say 6,000 peasant pensions, and then you sell it all, and then because of the land that needs to be restitution you can't do it, then another 6,000 pensions should be paid to the legal followers, and in that way, you lose 12,000 minimum agricultural pensions, and then you come to the Assembly when you take 12,000 farm pensions, put them in your pocket, and represent the pensioners you took in just one single act for three years, the non-existent planting on a non-existent parcel, which you bought nine months later, through how they say the combination, when you damaged them for 12,000 pensions within a very short period, you come and represent the pensioners whose money you spent in such a way, you poured into your pockets and pockets of your friends. Then share such a subsidy with the tycoon in equal honor, two parts to him, one part to you. If I should also be willing to show this bill or distribution of prey after the division of 12,000 peasant pensions in 2007 for spring planting, which was carried out in November 2007. It is about the spring planting of the vineyard on a plot that was leased in November 2007, and the planting was reportedly done in March 2007. I wonder how this is planted in the spring in November of the vines and on the property you rented from the state nine months later that wasn't planned at all, there was no agreement for investment investments, but the plot was proposed for five years only. Who's planting the vine for five years? What country gives subsidies to the vine planted for five years, in order to issue a licence only in 2012 for the planting of the vine and the premium withdrawn in 2007? That way, we lose 12,000 pensions in only one man, so only one combination, and that combination was thousands. That's why we're now at the opportunity that, while we're spending that money, they've been broadcasting various rights that have no one to pay, and that's why we're now in a position not to take from the pensioners, but that we can't do enough to get out of the state register to keep our pensions full, so that they stay the same and bigger, given that what hasn't been spent in various ways. I've already shown which combinations. That's why we're in a position to cut donations temporarily to pensioners because someone's spent a lot of money ahead of us on a lot of combinations and in advance damaged pensioners. If that were to continue in a year, there wouldn't be a pension at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11675	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. You can see the system doesn't even work at Mrs. Tomic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11676	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable ministers and fellow MPs, who is proposing this amendment deals with political pulsism and, I would say, narcissism, because the theory that we are taking business and giving pensioners at this point is totally unsurpassed. Because this economy, which simply gives 750m euros, takes out of the budget of all Serbian citizens and simply has no chance of giving the budget anymore. Pensions are filled with real income from the economy and what is important to say that this budget and the Rebalance proposal are given as one balanced system between expenditure income problems, structural reforms that await us and public sector coordination or public enterprises. Those who suggest such a system simply don't think about their future. They have dealt with the past and have become accustomed to the old business mechanisms of the economy, and the easiest thing to do was to take from the economy and cover the pensioners what there is no excuse at all for their future generations. The moment has come when the new government has set up a new system of values in which, simply, what you're earning so much you can spend, of course, with a big bag called 232 credits, with all of its interest that this budget will have to pay off for years. I don't think this amendment should be accepted in any way, because it represents a return of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11677	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11678	I wanted to tell Mrs. Tomic, since we've been having this debate since the beginning, not to forget one thing, besides what you just said. The government, just making sure that it is hard to live in Serbia, is living hard for many years because of people who have been very irresponsiblely running politics in the previous years, who have been in debt so much that unfortunately all generations of many years will have to pay off these loans and debts that were irresponsiblely taken in those times, and the government has made sure that the largest number, million and five thousand pensioners, are not touched at all by this decision. So by a million and thirty-five thousand pensioners, for the absolute maximum number of pensioners, nothing, not one single dinar. By taking care, of course, that these people have paid the most regularly, that these are the people who are the hardest to live in this country and that we have to make sure that they have as, as much, as those decent incomes that we can see in the future that they can be better. Of course, this is, first of all, about the future, when we talk about all these measures. This government could have been made blind and not seen the problems created earlier and continued at a similar pace and had for another year or two days, in debt, led to a similar policy and then Serbia collapsed. But, wanting to look the truth into our eyes, we looked at what kind of future awaits us if we continue with the same steps, decided to take heavy measures, again taking care of the poorest part of our population, the people who live the hardest in both the pensioners and the people who work, the largest number of workers, and decided to withdraw the heavy measures that are certainly not popular, but are necessary because of our future. Our future dictates that we want to heal the economy. These measures, presented by Minister Vujovic and Prime Minister in previous days, were not something that is certainly popular, but absolutely necessary. Otherwise, Serbia would experience absolute collapse. This is the way to our recovery, that we can have hope that in the coming years and the coming years we have a better future, that we can expect these measures to stop for a year and that we can go back to the higher incomes that people will have for their work. It is the only healthy economic way of considering this policy because people who have been irresponsible in previous times, who have only been in debt and have not brought, even in the most difficult times of economic crisis, have not taken any steps to improve our financial position, we are in a situation today to correct these mistakes. I don't think it's too late yet, although I'm not a minister who's overly concerned with the financial portfolio, but since my portfolio is doing a huge number of people, a huge number of employees, these people, of course, together with everyone, even though they're dealing with perhaps the most difficult jobs in the country, will carry a burden like everyone else, but we hope that we will be able to improve the position of people working in the police and people working in the public sector, of course in an uncomparably responsible way than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11679	The word has the People's MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, spending time on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11680	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, I ask once again the MPs and members of the Government in the resignation, as I understand it, to consider the content of our amendment to Article 1. Mr. Vujovic here says -- difficult measures. Well, yes, gentlemen, these are difficult measures, as we can see, for pensioners, difficult measures for doctors, difficult measures for teachers, but they are not difficult measures for the Serbian government, because, I remind you, gentlemen, by this bill, that the total state spending of these changes is more than nine billion and four hundred and a few million. So, the government is proposing difficult measures for all citizens or for most citizens, except for themselves. Please, gentlemen, pensions have been obtained from a right that must not be touched on the basis of Article 58. The RS Constitution. For years, contributions have been paid to make these pensions the way they are, and the government has not even done a single thing she could do, for example. to provide that this law reducing pensions includes a provision to withdraw part of pensions, for example. when the conditions are met. Even this government couldn't do it, and here it is said: heavy measures are needed for everything but the government. Dear gentlemen, I understood as I listened to Mr. Vujovic, one of the ministers of the government in resignation, that the minister said that this money we're talking about, that that money, that's what I wrote down, was actually already spent. Dear gentlemen, I understand this -- it is not, therefore, a matter of technical lack of our amendment, but of the fact that someone has managed this budget irresponsiblely, that the money we now want to subtract from the subsidies to the economy has already been spent. Then I wonder, why the rebalancing, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11681	You've wasted your time, thank you. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Sonja, you have to let Minister Vujovic go, he wasn't in the system. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11682	Since you called me by name with an epithet, I just want to explain one thing. In fact, we must respect the face of all MPs and members of the government and of all the people present here, therefore, I will only try to answer the facts. This government first and foremost said that it would at least reduce where it was most painful and difficult and that's what we're doing. The reduction in wages and pensions in this year we are working in the sequence as a first step, because most of the cost elements on which the impact of next year's reforms will be available only from 1 January, after 10 months most of the items have either been spent or engaged for very legitimate purposes under the law, according to commitments from previous years and everything else. In order to avoid any confusion, it is not about any spending outside the law, it is about paying subsidies, or interest subsidies, to allow the economy to borrow at rates that are more normal. The rates of 12 to 15% of our bank, due to increased risk, are charged, cannot allow anyone, except speculative and commercial firms, to function and to normally build their own future. It therefore amounts to eight billion, which is most of that subsidisation item of the economy you're talking about, has already been hired to pay the dues. If we don't pay for it, the banks will be forced to sue the mandated government and sue the development fund and thus tear down the country's credit rating from within because it has failed to fulfil the obligations it has legally accepted and for which you voted in this assembly. Secondly, very important, there must be no impression that the state and government and the budget and these MPs and this country are doing nothing for the pensioners. According to the budget rebalancing, if you look at the item on the 3rd budget under paragraph 1.8, the Republic Fund PIO receives a transfer from the 251.1 billion budget. It is a deficit of the fund, these are the acquired rights acquired under the Constitution, acquired by some contributions from the past, but in our pension system they are charged from current incomes, so on. The system pays as you go, 251 billion of us from the budget separate to cover the difference between the contributions that people pay with the salaries and the commitments you're talking about. Therefore, I think it is normal to call on pensioners, with that qualification that 61% of the poorest will be excluded from this, to accept part of the cost of adjustment, the cost of reform, the cost of returning Serbia to a sustainable path of development and development. The last thing I wanted to say is, it's about the second amendment that started, I don't know where we are anymore in the discussion, whether we're on the first or the second, the part about the cost is also going to be one of...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11683	On the second, to Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11684	... the important elements of the reform to be implemented with the 2015 budget. In this year's budget space is no longer available, since people have already bought everything by the end of the year, almost bought everything or hired and have obligations waiting for them. Not because we don't want to cut it, we're already making decisions and commitments, and all ministers are already committed to cutting costs next year, but we have to start planning today to make it happen next year. We can't go backwards. If I were to be very plastic, it would be best if we could retroactively reduce the level of Sava and Danube before the flood, so there wouldn't be a flood. But it happened, it's over and it's over. We now have the consequences and we can't change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11685	Thank you. The word is Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11686	Dear People's MPs, respected ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, but above all respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today when I talk about amendments, I am not going to argue with the promoters at all, but with the amendments and what they are essentially representing. In my opinion, at this point they represent the most common demagogue amendments, which actually belong to a dead faith and the failed idea of human happiness and prosperity, called communism, as if they were written from that time. It seems to me that Minister Vujovic is such a nice man, and I'm going to remind myself of some other things why we have to do these things that we are now doing and to propose such difficult measures, in which we have to participate, unfortunately, and all Serbian citizens, who are not the most guilty of being in this situation, those who have ruled Serbia since 2008. Because when we talk about both the structure and these subsidies and everything we have to do, to pay and return, which is why the budget is so threatened and why this situation is in the country, it should be reminded that those who are telling us about seven and a half billion euros in borrowing in the last three or four years, that of which, and now I repeat these figures in order to know, Minister Vujovic just said those 250 billion differences that we have to cover, but the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic in that structure is in charge of seven and a half billion euros in advance, so, future ones leading the state, and of course, in any case, they are always citizens of Serbia. One billion of these we have expenses on Agrobank and the Vojvodina Development Bank and what they have been doing since 2008. Two billion euros is interest in 2013/2014. a year for those debts from earlier that citizens of the Republic of Serbia, while MPs who propose amendments are currently smiling taking care of pensioners who have given the right to talk about this. I don't remember, my parents are retired, that they gave anyone the right to talk like this. My father-in-law's father-in-law, and yesterday, there were several pensioners in this building with me, I can say some names, and I can say: Milan Požljin, e.g. The Count of Požega, people know when I speak of whom I speak, Branko Kovacevic of Smederev. It was here a lot yesterday with me retired, and I don't know that they gave one of these colleagues to write a amendment like this. Four and a half billion euros sold foreign reserves to those in power from 2008 to 2012. The euro when they came to power was worth 80 dinars, and when they handed over the power of 119,80 dinars. It was an economic policy which is why we now have to do what we do. Serbian citizens and pensioners support it. SNS and Alexander Vucic would not have 55% rating if they didn't support it. They support and understand. They support it because they know that economy is the most important thing. They support it because they know that when we develop our economy and when we join the EU, their grandchildren and their children will have more work to do, which is more important to them than the current situation. If we had continued like this, neither would their children have a job, nor would they have pensions. They are guilty, I repeat, of those who were in power from 2008 to 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11687	The word is Borislav Stefanovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11688	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. So, both this amendment and others in a series are not just a reflection of trying to change some things in the allocation of budget funds. At the same time, they are an attempt to respond to the issues we just heard from Minister Stefanovic. So how is it possible that the Serbian government is trying to present and reject these amendments in a situation where it reduces salaries and pensions by 680,000 pensioners in Serbia? I know it suits you 60 percent. Say – 680,000 pensioners will have reduced pensions. At the same time, when we propose that funds be transferred either to social assistance users or to reduce the guarantee, in the subsequent amendments, for "Srbigas", you reject it. How can you say that these are difficult measures, that the state is saving, when, at the same time, Minister Vujovic, your State Secretary, Mr. Mijailovic, has a salary of over 5,000 euros? Tell that to the citizens of Serbia. Five thousand euros! For NIS, however, not for the Secretary of State, but for the Assembly of Shareholders. Tell me how many other members of the government pay you. You have, Minister Vujovic, 98,000 dinars of salary, say. I'm sorry, 105,000, and your secretary of state has five times your salary. Imagine that. And you say now -- pensioners won't get hit by 25,000. Which is cynicism. What does that look like? The National Bank of Serbia made a loss for the first time, my people, of 400m euros. The National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Why did that happen? I don't know. She can't explain it either. So what now? Collect an amount of 400m euros, raise the amount of salary increases in the public sector, and you will get a multiple significant amount in terms of wage cuts and pensions. It's very simple. Say so to the citizens, and do not be heavy. You take heavy measures towards you, gentlemen. Don't refuse the amendments to automation. Let's try to redistribute the funds justly. The citizens voted for you because they want justice above all and a fair redistribution of money. But the problem is they neither got justice nor redistribution of money, because there's no one in prison, and there's no sharing of their money. That's why we think it's a good idea to adopt a law on the origin of political property, so that we can all cross whoever has what it has and justly tax it. Not to talk about who took anything or didn't take it. Well, why don't we just put a little insight into it, and let the law cut the rules? That's fair. So, we don't see the possibility that, with these allocations, with these budgetary allotments, in any way, economic activity will be launched, that there will be an increase in pension fund allocation, that tax exemption will increase. Tax revenues will not be increased, Mr. Arsic. No, you know it. It's all gonna go down. Vomiting and production and consumption. These same pensioners up to 25,000 have raised all costs, and communals, and drugs, and energy, will only grow, and transport. So, what now? They feed half of Serbia's pensioners. But it's important that you say that 60 percent is not a reduced pension. So tell me - 68,000 pensioners are reduced, professors, engineers, teachers, doctors, they've been reduced. So say it. Who hasn't been reduced to? It's not reduced to ministers. They haven't been reduced. The governor's not down. She's got a raise on her salary. By abolishing the solidarity tax, it will receive substantially higher incomes, but that is why 200m euros are due to the NBS, gentlemen and 400m, respectively. Here, I'm half down. The entire cost of salaries and pensions, ministers, is 370m euros. Why did this happen? Here you can answer that. You're the finance minister. Tell us, how is it possible that this happened? Just please, you're a serious man, that's what I think you are. Don't start a sentence – you know we've had problems in the past. We had problems, we had ministers back then, and you remember very well, both the destruction and the bombing of this country, the sanctions and everything. Those who are yelling at me have left such a mess that the three pins would not fix, not you, not two Webbers, not eight Martin Luthers. Let's try to answer specific questions. I think these amendments should be adopted, show openness to fair redistribution. That's where you got the election. It's a promise of a better life and a better future. Here's a chance for that. Show me you're better. You have one more historic chance of the eighth, to show you're better than the ones that were. But you keep refusing to be better. Because maybe essentially, I'm afraid and you're not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11689	The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11690	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know, cynicism and demagogy two words that I could describe some speeches in this assembly, but it should be returned to facts. It should remind the citizens of Serbia, what really are the facts. The facts are that when the Serbian Progressive Party came to power, I think, and not one company that worked more seriously, not to mention that we found 400m euros in debt only in Vojvodina Development Bank. It's a process that lasts. I'm sorry that some of them, of course, who we arrested were respected citizens at a time when others were in power and not only were prominent citizens, but they were in control of the state. I'm sorry they brought the judiciary to such branches that we still don't have a judicial verdict. I'm sorry, and I hope that will change soon, too, because those verdicts will arrive, we respect the courts and wait for them to rule in these cases, but obviously it's a major robbery of the citizens of this country and a major robbery of the state. I know that citizens want to hear it, 1,035,000 pensioners are not touched by these measures, by heavy measures, by measures that were not easy to bring, but which were necessary for the cured of these countries. We had state secretaries when we came to power, three times as many were found today. Three times as many. Billions have been taken, I mean five or six billion since 2008, we've only been in charge of paying salaries in various agencies, public enterprises in the public sector. They owed themselves to pay such and such wages. Taking the money, somebody's gonna pay it back. Today when it came to return, today when the country is to be consolidated, they say today – what you are reducing, because you have led such a policy by not thinking about the future of your country, not thinking about it. If Serbia continued, it would be in catastrophic bankruptcy. Today we're growing revenue from tobacco excises, because we're more serious about tobacco smuggling. We're more serious than that. There is no day to confiscate a shipment of tobacco and it is evident that the state is showing seriousness and responsibility in the fight against corruption and crime. I won't take much time for what I've found in the area of crime in this country, that's what the prosecution and courts will say, but what I want you to know is that the state will seriously, seriously fight both corruption and crime. I hope, of course, that people realized that this government really has a good intention of repairing the situation in this country, wants to make people in this country live better, unfortunately, what we were left with is so disastrous that we had to withdraw the heavy measures to fix this difficult situation from the previous period, but that period will pass. Serbia can expect a better economic situation, this government is struggling, we've made the best airline in the country, we bring the most serious investors into this country, our people look at it completely differently. Today Serbia is an acceptable partner. We have made serious agreements with both the EU and the Russian Federation, with serious countries of the world that show they want to co-operate with the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, in 2012, the situation was completely different, it was completely different that no one wanted to talk to us, nor did any serious company intend to come here. Today, this situation is incomparably better. We have secured the exports of companies that work, including the Fiat, and the Russian Federation market, which so far has not been the case, which will allow for the continued work of not only the people of the Fiat, but also many cooperative houses. It is also done on Smederev, said counterpart Shormaz, working to bring in a serious investor, unfortunately, some others were not able to hold on to previous investors, we will fix this situation and try to save jobs. The easiest thing would be – let's go bankrupt. We're trying to fix the situation in the economy, make people live better in this country. I see that people recognize that this policy is good, that there are people here who don't only care about themselves and how they will become tycoons, and many of them have become tycoons from 2008 to 2012. Many have tens of billions, hundreds of billions of dinars of property that were acquired while exercising power, this is not the case in this government. I expect we'll have all these reports on the property and how it works, who was opening companies, who was buying the country, who was doing it very quickly and by the competent state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11691	He has a word, Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11692	Dear Ministers, honourable presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought everyone here in the hall, and of course the citizens of Serbia know that in the market economy, there is no more free lunch. I remind you that when we talk about fair redistribution, that fair redistribution from 2008 to 2012, only through an increase in pensions, which was unrealistic, when the whole world, when the world's largest economic forces entered the recession, cost us a billion and 600 million euros. I'm talking about sharing 13 salaries in the public sector, which cost our budget 200m euros. Therefore, anyone who knows the economy and anyone who is real, who wants our country to develop economically and dynamically, needs to know that we can develop and that we can attract as much investment as possible, so that we can do a fair redistribution. My party, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, stands for it first. We need to increase GDP. In this situation, the government had and defined the social component and excluded 61 percent of pensioners. That was the only way. I would be very pleased and everyone would be more satisfied, especially with the citizens of Serbia and pensioners, that when Ireland had a fiscal deficit in 2008, 29 per cent, Latvia 15 per cent, Lithuania 13 per cent. If we had implemented reforms then, they would have hurt less and, of course, our economy would have gone out early on a green branch. I will remind only that the failure to solve the company's restructuring problem has cost this budget about 10 billion euros in 10 years. In this situation, talking about fair redistribution and social responsibility, I find it not serious. Our country is in a serious situation and we must do as the Prime Minister and the Government of Serbia have decided to do decisively, with clear measures and a clear vision, a clear strategy, development to launch reforms, stop borrowing and develop our economy through attracting foreign investment, but of course encouraging domestic investors, domestic entrepreneurs and, of course, the creation of an entrepreneurial society, instead of an official, which has been created in our country in the last 13.14 years. I will remind you that the public administration has increased 3 or 4 times more, that employment in public enterprises has ceased through the adoption of the Budgetary System Act in this House in 2013, and that through these parallel measures, which the government will take and carry out definitely our economy on the green branch in the coming period, and that already in 2017, it will, for sure, be a cure that has been applied by Portugal, Ireland, Latvia and Lithuania, the EU member states, now have a much lower deficit, and they are now having economic growth, so it has already been tried. I hope that through the arrangement with the IMF, through the increase in our country's ratings when it comes to investment and through bringing in the best, well, the best Etihad, the seventh company in the world, is the best tennis, the best and biggest German corporation in meat and food industry production, which means that in our interest are the best and greatest players, not speculant capital that has led to one third of the privatisations in our country being broken and, of course, we attract those who did not intend to hire, who had no intention of creating an extended reproduction in these businesses, to diversify business and to be export-oriented. So this government and this parliament will fully support it, thinks we should make an economy and work full steam on it, which will be maximumly export-oriented. It's the only way we can solve our country's biggest problem, which is the employment problem, which after the Law on Labour has been passed, and this problem has begun to be solved, because we have 45,000 new employees. Why? Because we have created a framework, we have created a good environment for employment and quality and attractive for investors, who will, of course, be very happy to come to our country as a quality and good investment destination. Here, we've already scored. We are the second destination when it comes to tourism in Europe, according to analyses by world institutions dealing with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11693	The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11694	Just a short replica, since my name was mentioned. I'd like to explain two things. So 61% or a million 38,000 pensioners won't have any reductions. The next 470,000 or 26% will have a decrease of less than 10%. A total of 87.5% of pensioners will have no reduction or reduction of less than 10%. This is more than a word given at the outset and we have very carefully defined the program that we want to implement. I repeat, the first step now, and everything else three years ahead of us will be carried out in a very responsible manner. Secondly, as for wages, all ministers, including myself, will have a 10% reduction in salary, as stated in the Law. There are no exceptions. Next, find me a country in a world where wages are level, wages and pensions, only four times less than the minister's salary? Find me one such country in the world, and I will confess to you publicly that I am wrong. So, there's no country where there's a protection of wages in those countries, a thousand, a thousand or a thousand, a thousand and a half euros, and ministers have a salary of 15, 20 and more. Therefore, nowhere in the world is ministers paid as little as here and we do this out of a sense of duty and obligation towards our country, not for material compensation. I really don't think it's right for you to mention the minister's salary, since the expenses the ministers have, only for business, are bigger than the entire salary. Thanks for the pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11695	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11696	The system didn't work, so I moved on to the second parliamentary unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11697	You've got the microphone on. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11698	You can't hear anything. [[Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Nothing is heard.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11699	I don't know how to fix microphones, MP Stefanovic, but I'll do my best. Here you go, Toskovic. That's what they're getting on purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11700	Just because they didn't get into the heart of this budget rebalance or budget at all. [[You can't hear it because it's an invalid microphone]] The inflow of funds in the budget is not real, because the economy is not working. And that economy doesn't work just because we destroyed a complete economy from 2000 to 2012 that only works with 30% today. You understand that. A real budget inflow can't be, so that's why it's such a deficit. We're going to be even more of a deficit if we have a opposition like this. We must somehow surprise some other opposition, which will be constructive, not like this which demagogue is performing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11701	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11702	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, first of all, I am sorry that the applicant of the amendment always wishes at the height of the decibel or by the number of larger decibels to replace his party's deficit in parliament itself. I'm really sorry, considering that's what the proposals are like. In fact, the suggestions are to destimulate the economy, on the one hand, to give the pensioners money. We feel that we need to raise the economy, such as the objective and the SNS plan, so that in the extreme instance, we can provide pensioners with a decent life as they deserve. The second speaker, or representative of the main opposition party, has brought forth a series of lies here and I am really sorry that he mentions salaries in the public sector and what kind of salary he has. I would remind him only that during the rule of the former regime, what was paid by the Privatisation Agency or the Government of the Republic of Serbia is scandalous. At this point, I'm holding this piece of paper that says who was getting the money for marketing purposes, consulting purposes and some other purpose. For example, here we can see that in 33 days one man was given 2,424 euros daily, for 33 days 80,000 euros. The second -- 1,957 euros per day, 46 days, 90,000 euros. Third – 1,917 euros, in 12 days, 23 000 euros. The fifth, sixth, seventh, so here are the 28th, if you will – 1.471 euros, in 17 days 25 000 euros. There are 48 of them, only on this list, the chairman. Just on this list, where someone takes a million and 100,000 euros in a month, we don't know for whatever reason, and you found it appropriate to accuse someone today of having this kind of pay or that kind of pay. You know well that the SNS in these reforms has primarily come from its administrative ranks and will reduce subsidies to those enterprises that are non-profitable and that we have accumulated the loop and that we have the nerve to enter into the resolution of enterprises in restructuring. You shouldn't have touched that. What you knew and what you did successfully is sell out everything that was worth, everything that was liquid, everything that you could take a single euro for, and you left what almost nobody would. Instead of making a good proposal on how to get out of this difficult situation, other than making a proposal to charge taxes to tycoons that you created, and you weren't allowed to charge them one single euro unless you were in a good mood to pay some euro on your own. Today's government and how it knows to charge these tycoon taxes, to pay what they took from the state because you created them. We've seen your plan and program. Your plan and programme certainly is to form or form a bank for Serbia's restoration and development. It was little for us to rebuild and develop the Vojvodina, where you took 20, 30m euros in your pockets and you said to show you were better. Chairman, time will show if we're better, if we've done the results. I am deeply convinced that we will not take from the economy to give to the pensioners, because that pensioner also wants both his son and his daughter and grandson and grandson, which is our goal and goal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Whether we're going to be better, time will show already in the next election, but one thing is for sure, the chairman, that we are far more honest, more honest and responsible than the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11703	Right on line, MP Borislav Stefanovic. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: I called in half an hour ago to speak according to the amendment. I'm sorry, I have to give the line because it mentioned the Democratic Party in the last sentence and now, according to the Rules of Procedure, I have to give the replica first.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11704	I'm sorry you apologize for us. So I disagree that the young colleague represents a party that is more honest, more capable, etc., but I agree that the citizens will evaluate it. That's definitely it. They are the highest judge in Serbia. So far, you're doing well because they believe in that fog you're selling, but more and more they see that fog gas is made up of invisible particles that cloud vision and judgment of real walk and future and prosperity. What I had to say was, on the contrary, a respected colleague, you're cutting pensions to put them in the economy. You're reducing one to spill another. Either you're losing it or it's who's already got a big salary. So there is no example other than social protection. However, users will pay for it by forced labor, but there is no example here that you do not spill pensions and wages back, as they say, on a greasy goose. I'm just asking that -- why, when we give you concrete examples, not to you personally, although you, Mr. Jovicic, could say something about it, so tell us where the problem is and why the problem is that 50,000 foreign soldiers who take over 400-600m euros for the two years you've hired, that they return well from where they came from. To reduce and determine the responsibilities of the National Bank of 400m euros, there would be no reason or need to cut wages by 10%, to cut pensions by...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11705	Ambassador, I'm gonna take some more time you've spent over two minutes. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11706	Thank you. (Alexander Jovičić, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11707	National MP Alexander Jovicic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11708	The Honorable Chairman, I'd really like to see where those 50,000 party workers are, or I don't know which ones either. They're gone, the chairman. There aren't any of those workers. The Serbian Progressive Party has not hired 50,000 party workers and you know it well, as you have since 2000, when you arrived, hired over 20-30 thousand workers in just one year, but it doesn't matter. We find it difficult to fire those workers you hired, because it was also a common people who believed in your fairy tales, that the global economic crisis would be a chance for Serbia, that the global economic crisis would bring only China and Serbia well. It is your policy and I have nothing against it, but of the 2280 privatisations in Serbia that have begun, you have successfully implemented almost 10 or 15 of these privatisations and over 600 privatisations of the failed, 162 enterprises in restructuring, which almost no one will and thanks to your policy. That's what DS did. Your party's president said in 2008 that he would hire 200,000 people, but unfortunately, there were 400,000 people out of work. I know, it may have been a global economic crisis, but it may have been difficult, but unlike you, we're telling the truth today. If you were then telling the truth to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this is a difficult situation, if you had taken the measures taken today by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you might be leading this country today, but you would be responsible. You weren't responsible. You lied. We do not want to lie and, unlike you who have seen the future for the sake of your interests in the short term, we see it in the long term, for the sake of Serbia's interest, and the SNS does not have to be in power unless this Serbia becomes a successful, modern European country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11709	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11710	Thank you. You know, I hear here all the time from those who from 2000 to 2012, every speech they started with – and thanks to the 1990s it was like this and like this, let's not go back to the past. I now of the same people who have spent 12 years of their political career in the formula – and in the 1990s it was like this and now they say let's not go back to the ancient past, forgotten in 2008, it's too far, it really doesn't matter when you realize that 2008 was a hundred years ago. Here I hear as the highlight of the proposal and the political wisdom being said - you don't need to take money from pensioners and you don't need to take money from employees. Bravo. I support that. Great. How come I didn't think of that? But you don't say why it has to be done, you don't say the debts we're paying back now are made when they're made. You know, if we came to power thanks to the promise to fight injustice, that's because there was injustice and because everyone saw this injustice. If we came to power because we promised to deal with the thief, that is because the people saw with their eyes the thief and said – fight the thief. If we have come to power because the people have seen, because the people have recognized all the injustice, that is because it was wrong. After all, here's a wonderful opportunity for you to end up with us right now – write elections in Vojvodina and blow up that fog and we're gone, there's no fog, over, just go to the election. Please, through the amendments and everything else, make sure we can help someone. When I defended the Labour Act, I accepted some of your amendments because you warned about something that was correct, something that we missed, but don't make amendments – back 10%.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11711	Thank you, Minister. By amendment, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, it is not true that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is resigning and it is not true that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is Mr Alexander Vukic. As I am informed, my distinguished colleague Zoran Babic will either schedule a session of the Administrative Committee on Tuesday to discuss the resignation of a member of parliament because he lost a bet with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11713	MP, by amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11714	... So the list of former regimes will have the opportunity to propose a new candidate for the MP instead. As for the explanation, i.e. the argument concerning the amendment to Article 1 as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, first of all, I would like to say that the applicants of the amendment should learn how to write the amendments. Just to make it clear to the citizens, and to the MPs, which amendment we're talking about now. We are now discussing an amendment for which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has assessed that it does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. The amendment promoter from the five vessels is trying to convince us that we should accept this amendment. First thing, learn to write amendments so that they comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Furthermore, the MPs of the former regime are here to explain that we should not vote in favour of budget rebalancing, that we should not vote in favour of these two draft laws relating to temporary wage cuts and pensions, calling for Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. By the way, when the Constitution suits them or when they think it suits them, their mouths are full of the Constitution. Otherwise, the Constitution is no good, the Constitution is written in a non-democratic atmosphere, the Constitution is written so that it does not comply with European standards etc. Now, suddenly, the Constitution is good and as a reason why we should not accept the measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is an invitation to Article 58. The Constitution. Here's what article 58 says. – ensure the peaceful enjoyment of property and other property rights acquired under the law. That's attitude one. Article 2 — the right of property may be withdrawn or restricted only in the public interest established under the law, with a fee which cannot be lower than the market price. Why did I read this? To make the applicant of the amendment clearer. Retirement isn't a classic property right. Article 58 refers to the right of property, which implies the right of property in moving and immovable matters. Article 2 which states that the right of ownership can be taken away or restricted only in the public interest established under the law, with a fee which cannot be lower than the market, refers in fact to expropriation, when a state, autonomous province or a unit of local self-government is taking away or restricting property rights to immovable property. Therefore, a member of 58 with pensions has absolutely nothing to do with it. This appeal to the Constitution as a reason why fiscal consolidation measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia do not absolutely stand. Furthermore, what the former regime MPs have been saying for days is that the government of the Republic of Serbia is allegedly experimenting on citizens and applying some of the measures that no one has applied in the world, it is not true. We proved it in principle. Serbia is not the first to save the country from bankruptcy, i.e. The government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to save the country from bankruptcy, must resort to a difficult, painful measure, called temporary wage cuts and pensions. The year has frozen pensions from 2009 to 2012. Lithuania has cut wages from 20% to 30%. The number of public sector employees has been reduced by 10%. Pensions were temporarily reduced by 11%, VAT increased from 18% to 21%. Portugal reduced the salary fund by 20%, increased VAT from 21% to 23%, and temporarily reduced pensions by 12%. So Serbia is not the first to apply these difficult and painful measures. That's what Serbian citizens need to know. There is no alternative to what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing. If there were, then the government would surely suggest them. The Serbian Progressive Party and this Government of the Republic of Serbia think they will remain remembered in Serbia's political history if for nothing else, then for the next reason. We are, members of the SNS are, I can say freely and let no one take it as evil, in a way most politically affected by the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In 70% of Serbia's municipalities and cities, the SNS and the same SNS are in power because of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which it supports, cannot, even if it wants to, employ in the municipality, in the city, in the public enterprises of its members, as the parties of the former regime did. We can't because the law doesn't allow it. We ourselves apply difficult and painful measures. That's why we have the right to ask the citizens who supported us in 2014, in March of this year, to bear one part of the burden. How long will this burden last? Now I'm going to tell you that, because that's where you deceive the citizens. The Committee chaired by my esteemed colleague Dr Vesna Rakonjac, the Committee on Labour, proposed an amendment to the draft law concerning the temporary reduction of pensions and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the legislation adopted the amendment 45 minutes ago, i.e. that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, to delete from this bill the sentence that the temporary reduction of pensions will take place until December 2017. So we'll get our pensions back on track as soon as the economic opportunities in Serbia get better. To this extent, we have gone far, to that extent, to the point that we have set a deadline for us to return to the citizens of Serbia the normal life that you have taken from them, not the SNS. So, no arguments about what you're saying you don't have. Since the interior minister is here, I have repeatedly talked about the fact that in the AP Vojvodina, there is a faceless robbery of the citizens of Vojvodina, which continues from 2000 to 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11715	You've come completely out of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11716	I'm done. Mr. Stefanovic, as a god, please, you have entered the Vojvodine Development Bank, all honors, come in, please, the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. I guarantee you by your word... Are you taking my word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11717	I'm not subtracting, I'm just trying to connect it to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11718	This is all about the amendment. Had it not been for the robbery, Mrs Gojkovic, from 2000 to 2014 in Vojvodina, the Serbian government would not have had to take such difficult measures. Take, please, Mr Stefanovic, the contracts signed by the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund from 2007 to today. Look at the commissions, what kind of set-up tenders, how much money went into private pockets, how many apartments were purchased by the people who have been leading Vojvodina for 14 years. Mr. Stefanovic, 30 apartments cannot be bought from a salary of 100, 150 and even 200,000 dinars. It can be bought from crime. I draw your attention to the fact, in addition to the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, you have another scam of citizens called "Tesla Banka" in Zagreb. The chairman of the Vojvodine Development Bank Supervisory Board, which credited companies that robbed citizens in favour of the former regime, is a lady who is also a member of Tesla Bank's Supervisory Board. I don't want to mention her name because it's a lady. I think she's still in custody and it's not polite to mention her name, but you know who it's about. So, please, join the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund and you will see in part all honesty, all the struggle for the rights of workers, peasants, pensioners, all the struggle for the European values of the former regime's parties. You'll see that the Capital Investment Fund is everything, just not that. You will see that the Fund for Capital Investments is autonomous province of Vojvodina, here, as Martin Luther was mentioned today, Vuk Karadzic translated from Germany into Serbian, his New Testament translation. So I'm going to use a new word, so you're going to see that the Capital Investment Fund is a bandit, or a hiduca cave.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11719	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, I apologize, not you, Borislav Stefanovic. Replica, right? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ) MP, no, party, party mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11720	It is the name of several times and the party, but since I am Stefanovic, the minister is Dr Stefanovic, so he mentioned me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11721	Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11722	No, he said...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11723	You're wasting your time right now on...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11724	So it's not true that there are no alternatives to these measures. We suggested an alternative. You don't have to like her. So it's not true there's no alternative. Take away your five salaries, take away the salaries of other people at the top of the government, fire 50,000 advances you put in the public sector and there's money. You see Mrs Tabakovic, where 400m euros have disappeared, there is no need to cut salaries and pensions. Are other countries frozen, that's true, but you didn't freeze, you cut and reduce and pay and reduce and pensions. Then you say, "We will, we cannot hire for the sake of the law." Well, that's what I'm talking about. You have legally hired people in the public sector, and everyone in Serbia knows that. Don't get involved, 'cause people laugh when they listen, everybody knows you're doing it. Only you to adopt, support the proposal of our cross-examination of people's assets in public office with all relatives, tads, and so forth. Here, we'll suggest it, you support it and we won't have this problem ever again. Otherwise, out of 74 members of the Democratic Party charged, more than 50 indictments have already been dropped. Now boast – we've arrested. You didn't arrest anyone, you arrested the D.A.'s office and the police. If there's any of those criminal acts you're talking about, what are you waiting for for two and a half years? Do you know what Martin Luther did in two years, two and a half years in Germany? Well, Protestantism has spread all over Europe, and your Martin Luther is just talking, he can't do anything. That's what you can't figure out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11725	Thank you, since all you asked for was a replica, then two minutes. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic because the address was personal to him. It's a pay question, five wages. I'm recording now, I'm holding a pen, and I'm recording what's who, who told me I could run a session. Here, you have the right to respond for two minutes. Two minutes, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11726	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems the MPs of the former regime don't hear well, so I'll repeat. So, Lithuania, pay cuts of 20% to 30%, then pensions reduced by 11%, and then Romania reduced wages by 25%, Portugal reduced pensions by 12%, so, reduced pensions by 12%. Why am I repeating this? Because someone has already applied these measures to countries where these measures have been applied, these measures have yielded results. What is our question for the former regime, why are these measures not applied if they are less painful for citizens of the Republic of Serbia? That they were applied in 2008, 2009, 2010, when you had a constant growth of the budget deficit in continuity of three, four years. If some of these measures were then applied, not even all measures, it would hurt less the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No, they were gardening, lying to the citizens about how everything was fine, sharing salaries and pensions, etc. And now they're proposing genius laws. Because of the deal I have with the head of the SNS parliamentary group, my friend and colleague Zoran Babic, I'm not going to say what law it is, but we're going to propose a law so you'll see how we respect your suggestions on how to fix some things. What's my question, when you're such political geniuses, is that in the 20000-2012 period, you didn't propose all the multitudes of all these laws you're proposing to us now and cross-examination of property, both this and that. As far as I'm concerned, you can freely propose that law, we have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11727	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic. You mentioned him several times and called.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11728	I have to take this. Mr. Martinovic mentioned me. I would not otherwise, but I see that whenever there is a mention of either the Capital Investment Fund or the "Development Bank" or "Tesla Bank" or the Finance Secretariat, there is enormous anxiety in this House in some people. What I'm saying is that the M.O.P. is working hard on it. We're doing it in action with the D.A.'s office. They're not always happy about how things go and how fast I'm not always happy, but I want to tell you it's going. We may not be as fast as I'd like to, but we're working very thoroughly, working the best teams from the criminal police department. It has been in some previous times that some people in the police have been obstructed in one way or another, that certain prosecutors held cases, they say in drawers, did not give orders to police to collect information. You know, it's all hard to prove because it's not about the document they're giving you, it's about the silence of the administration. Then when you say that the prosecution is independent, the judiciary is independent, then there's no God knows what to do. However, wanting to find out everything that's been done, and we've got enough indication, we've got enough documents that point to certain irregularities, we're going to very thoroughly check it out and go before this Assembly, before its competent board, and before the tide with all the results we've come up with, when that prosecution estimates it won't further endanger the course of our investigation. Thank you anyway, I hope this doesn't cause any more anxiety after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11729	Thank you. Mr. Dejan Radenkovic has the word. He's been waiting an hour. It's not worth it. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11730	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it's just amazing that we've been talking for over an hour about an amendment that, last night, I didn't want to tell the board of honorary fellow Pavicevic, and the first and second amendment, as explained and conveyed yesterday what I commented on the committee. It is in the government's reasoning that he is not in line with the Budgetary System Act. It's just that citizens know that this is about politics, about populistism. An amendment has been tabled, which is intended only to be discussed, which is not in line with the Budgetary System Act, and is submitted by the prime minister, could also be the former prime minister with his co-worker, sometimes an MP, a fellow who does not know how to submit the amendment. I think it's really absurd to talk here about something that shouldn't be discussed at all. He's technically not right. It was placed in the general section, the Budgetary System Act says it has a general and specific part of the budget and you propose an amendment only in the general section. That's where you show that all you want to do is draw attention and hang out with the citizens. There's no basis for that. Don't worry about it any further. Why do I mention former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic? I'll bring him up by name and last name. Because I want to say that the citizens of Serbia know that their next amendments will be -- deleted, deleted, deleted, deleted. They wiped out everything in their time, 500,000 employees from the firm. 500, 600 privatisations have been cancelled. What do we talk about now? They're just suggesting that something be deleted. What do you want? To erase what's left? Let us work, let us do something, let us fix the system, let us go into reform. If you want to help, don't get away, don't act destructive. This is destructive behavior. That's enough. You're not ashamed of yourself. Did you know that when you arrested so many people in Sabre, they all got in court and it cost a budget. The budget cost the citizens of Serbia what you were doing by force. How much longer are we going to listen to you here? I'd like to ask you to move on to the amendments if that's possible, according to meaningful amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11731	Vladimir Pavicevic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11732	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers and the Government in resignation, the honored guests, I believe, the Honored President, is a recently injured member of 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the attitude of 1st fine - the speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr Radenkovic recently, respected presidents, used several terms that undermine the dignity of the MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and showed that he was not fully addressed in the procedure of proposing amendments, making amendments and so on. So, it's very important, I mean, the esteemed president, and it's very good that not an hour, but an hour and a half now, is already discussing this essential amendment that doesn't mean that something is deleted, but that's supposed to transfer some money from the cost of using services and goods to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11733	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, that's the point. Don't use anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11734	Mr. Radenkovic said that we have submitted the amendment deletes, honourable president. He did, he said, wipe out, I listened.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11735	He said he's getting wiped out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11736	And it's not true that we wrote that it was deleted in the amendment. So, gentlemen, it is true that we are, and this is the first of the hundreds of amendments that we have submitted to this National Assembly, that we have now been robbed of a technical error here and we have made a correction, so that this technical error no longer exists. The bigger problem is I think what Mr. Radenkovic and the board, one, two and three, don't notice that the government here is proposing unconstitutional laws. The Constitutional Court... . (National MP Dejan Radenkovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11737	You can't replicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't exist. They'll mention it for sure, but wait, then they've got as many lists as they can. Just take it easy, so I can run the session slowly. Let me just answer it first. So you're saying he's a injured member of 107. I believe that no member of the 107 has been injured, because MP Dejan Radenkovic spoke about the essence of the matter, that you are proposing amendments, and then you are not attending the vote. That's how I understood it. So it's nothing offensive. It is also your right to submit amendments and go home when voted. It's your right. So he didn't harm the Parliament's dignity by stating the facts of how anyone understands working in parliament. So I can't be a censor to him and say what you didn't see, I can't. But if you want us to vote in the end. Thank you. The right to replica has Zoran Zivkovic, because you addressed him directly. Here you go, Zivkovic. You have two minutes' rights to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11738	We have many times witnessed the abuse of time in parliament and there are many misunderstandings of what is and the essence of parliamentaryism, what are rights, what are the obligations of MPs, what when can it do? But there are some technical things that are very measurable. So today's debate takes almost two hours. Mr. Pavicevic and I have together available for this item of the agenda so far, and we have spent that there has been no replica, 14 minutes. Fourteen minutes is about eight, as well as I'm using my account for two hours, so all the rest of the time has been spent by some other MPs, with the mahogany of those who think they know something about the budget system and the wave from the position of government, as well as the previous speaker. So that we are conducting obstruction, that we are destructively acting in parliament using our rights is incorrect for two reasons. First, because you can't be destructive, and secondly, mathematically, it's obviously not true that we're wasting time. I said, 14 minutes would be the maximum of time if many other nadir economists hadn't interfered in this debate. As far as we're concerned, we'll continue to propose amendments. If some law is not good, we will submit to all members of that law an amendment in the formulation – it is deleted, because it is the only way to try to prevent a vote for such a law, and of course we are not there sometimes because the vote here is sometimes held at a completely inappropriate time and there is no reason for us to be part of the shame for which you vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11739	According to the Rules of Procedure, Marijana Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I have agreed to give the opposition colleague the right to the championship, given that I always advocate that the opposition has a slightly greater right. Those rights, Madam Chairman, and those rights must be spoken of. I'm advertising Article 106(3). – during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw, or interfere with the speakers in another way, undermining - the interference of speakers in other ways, as well as any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. I have to draw attention to the fact that as soon as someone from the ruling coalition hears from me that he's speaking according to the amendment, Professor. Pavicevic stood up, waved at the Rules of Procedure, by the way waving and some papers. We take risks, wave permanently, wave vigorously, wave like a feather fan, as our people say. We're risking a cold here. On the side of the cold, that's how speakers are distracted to speak meaningfully, to bring out their thoughts because it's not easy to talk if someone jumps right away as soon as you take the word, jumps in front of you, starts waving papers. In that case, you are distracted and you cannot speak clearly and meaningfully, since in such a way you can be successfully distracted. I respect the opposition's right even to mock the government, but we must also take care of some extent. So their right to obstruct is their right. It's their right to be destructive. It is their right to submit amendments, whether they are meaningful or pointless. There is no reason to judge this now, but the dignity of the National Assembly must be respected...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11741	Time. Just call me a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11742	I said, Article 106(3). I'm not asking you to vote on that. Just to keep an eye out for a man standing like this all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11743	You're right. It is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with the speaker in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. That's how most MPs do it. I don't know about those moves. But I can't deny freedom of speech to the MPs either, so I have to give the order. I'd pray I didn't have to per-member... If you want, we'll vote, but I can't control whether MPs get up, gesture. I don't think that's my job. Be kind enough to sit down. I'll ask the MPs to do the same. Should we vote on this? It's more of a violation of the Rules of Procedure by someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11744	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11745	Thank you. Please do not apply the measures laid down in Article 112 to take a break, but to continue to work on the amendments exclusively. That's my request. Otherwise, I'll use the law and the amendments themselves have said that we're discussing the clock and something about their amendment, essentially. I don't think it's essential. We still have 69 amendments. Zoran Babic by amendment. It was just my request.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11746	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen Ministers, I wish those of you had such fantastic amendments, why didn't they apply them when they had all the power in this country, when they created lives, when they created the fate of this country and all the citizens, if they were pensioners, if they were employees, were those 400,000 people who had lost their jobs with such a destructive policy, why didn't they apply such fantastic ideas back then? I have a chart in my hand, and it's not a chart climbing the Himalayas, although it seems to us that it's a public debt, but also a deficit of the state. In 2008, the country's deficit was 2.6% compared to GDP, in 2012 6.6.2008 was 29.2%, 60%, compared to GDP. No single measure, and by economic indicators, according to economic principles, when debt growth is linked for three years, is applied now by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Was anyone incompetent? Did anyone not know if anyone wanted to? That's what I'd like to hear. Why the idea now? Why now what could be done? What did they do then when they had the chance, when, I'm sure, they had these Himalayas debt, as they grew long year after year and turned their heads, as they now bowed their heads and moved their eyes from this chart? Why didn't they react then? What were they thinking then? If we had applied these measures in 2009, 2010 instead of those messages we received, that the crisis would not touch us and that we were statistically out of the crisis, but that its citizens would not feel it, then they would have been cured with aspirin, in 2011, probably with a pill that would not be very pleasant. Lost time by 2014 means that we must now receive an injection, but a injection that will not be given by 61% of pensioners receiving less than 25,000 dinars. You and those who don't want to hear what they've been doing, I'd like to ask them -- how many of these would we have to apply less to do their job and charge taxes from the tycoon? Why did we let, to be precise, why did they let the tax on Mr. Predrag Rankovic Peconi's company get you into debt because of the negligence of the state, because of, I don't know, fear, I don't know why, I can't describe it, the malts were out of date? 12 days ago, it was charged by Mr. Rankovic 9m euros, a few days before the ageing. We also have more drastic examples, "Luka Belgrade". , 170,253,019 dinars were charged from "Luke Belgrade" for 10 months this year. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, how many civil servants they are, those who care about pensioners, those who care about their employees, do you know how much they have charged from "Luke Belgrade" for four years? A quarter of these 170 million, a quarter in four years compared to this government that charged 170,000,000 dinars. There are even more drastic examples. "Mera Invest", one of Mark Miskovic's companies, did not even determine the tax, not even a fixed tax. That is why there is now a administrative dispute with the company, because we are now fighting and we are proving what those who care so much about pensions and salaries, who care so much about people in Serbia, have failed to even determine what tax is. They didn't know, they couldn't, or there were hidden motives, and I believe it was a combination of all three things. I would also like to thank my colleague, Aleksandr Martinovic, and I would like to take this opportunity, if the SNS is taking care of public finances, we are taking care of the users of public finances. The Serbian Progressive Party will, by the end of next week, refer to the Assembly's procedure the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Financing of Political Activities and thus 35 to 40% less segregation will be than under the law of the former regime, which with such great distinctions did not feel that moral obligation, that socially responsible behaviour, and that even with such large redundancies from the budget, they did not remember that those people in the Kingdom, who were left without houses in the earthquake, those whose houses were damaged, those who did not return to the buildings in the former Kidrich Street today, did not remember to make at least one left, let alone one house. The Serbian Progressive Party is then and now acts socially responsible. Then in the King of our means, of what we have gathered, without such a law that has passed the former regime, six houses in the King have been restored. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the next financial year, for the next 2015 SNS initiative, the SNS proposal for political activities for political parties will go 35 to 40% less, and I would ask those who are now on municipal boards or in buildings on Krunska Street, now off phones and heating and electricity, and I don't know what, what not, how will it work?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11747	According to the Rules of Procedure? You have no right to a replica. The man was discussing the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Minister of the Government, the Honorable Guests, I consider the Honorable Chairman to be a injured member of 104. The Rules of Procedure, which regulates the question of replica in our discussion. You may not have heard, Mr Arsenovic, but in his speech, Mr Babic had just told me, as an amendment bearer, that I had all the power in this country and then asked me – and why did you not apply these suggestions for solutions that you are now talking about? Dear Mr. Arsenovic, I thought that on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure have the right to do so to Mr. Babic, I am now doing so through you, saying that I have never, gentlemen, been in power. Always, gentlemen, I was in opposition. If we assume that Mr. Babic may have thought of Mr. Zivkovic, to imagine the situation, neither has Mr. Zivkovic in power since 2004, respected Mr. Arsenovic. That means for 10 years Mr. Zivkovic hasn't affected. Dear Mr. Arsenovic, just to finish an explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I've never been in power, but it is time to win power, because I realized that the government has fallen. The election will be quick, the New Party wins power next time. Thank you, Mr. Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11749	First we have to have one communication with each other and talk to each other. The basis for which you have advertised does not stand for the simple reason that you know that the right to replica is based on Article 104, which you have said, but in the extreme case, it determines the chairman. I don't think it came. The fact that Mr. Babic has lived through the former regime, you cannot identify yourself with that. Then I can identify myself and anyone else. Therefore, Mr Pavicevic, you have the right to plead, shall we declare in the day of voting the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Obligatory. All right. Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11750	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure, article 107, have been violated by the dignity of the National Assembly. When on several occasions talk about something that is not true and when such a message is sent from the speaker of the National Assembly, the dignity of the National Assembly is at the very least humiliated. What is not true is that this Government of the Republic of Serbia is being left behind, but what is true is that tomorrow, at half past eleven, the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled and that the Office of the National Assembly will also work today until the end of working hours and tomorrow morning, because we expect the resignation of the MP. If he has political integrity, what he lost with a gentleman's offer he received from the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, if he has the dignity of the day, he will submit it in the morning. Anyway, tomorrow at half past eleven is, Mr. Chairman, scheduled for the Administrative Board, where I want such a resignation to be accepted, of course, because it's a personal act. On the other hand, the fact that someone found himself in two words -- the former regime, directly and indirectly, because Mr. Pavicevic is together with his party, which is definitely not new because people are old, very old, helped that former regime cross the census, so as soon as you helped cross the censorship, of course you are also responsible. As soon as you've been with those people on the list, it means you're sharing the same values. You want to abolize, you want to continue such a policy and of course you are responsible and of course you need to find yourself in the words of the former regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11751	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11752	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Minister of the Government in resignation, as I understand it, honored guests, I believe, Mr Arsenovic, that the injured Rules of Procedure in Rule 103, but also that I now have the right to replication because Mr Babic mentioned my last name. Here, you decide on what basis to speak. As you decide, I will follow your decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11753	You know you don't have the right to replicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, use the right to injure the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11754	All right, then, Rules of Procedure. So, I've advertised Article 103's injury. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and here I have two things as some sort of clarification, Mr. Arsenović. I have to tell you, you can check it out in your notes, that Mr. Babic, when he spoke to me as an amendment bearer, said you, and I'm the bearer of the amendment, which you had all the power to do. Mr Babic did not say – the former regime, but said – you, Mr Pavicevic, who was the applicant of the amendment, who had all the power. Dear Mr. Arsenovic, here, you can testify, I think it's clear to all citizens, I've never been in power. On the contrary, I have always, dear Mr. Arsenovic, been in opposition and will always criticise bad authority, as I do now. Dear Mr Arsenovic, the other thing I must say is, of course, that I was also a candidate for the People's MP in the 2014 elections, but, dear Mr Arsenovic, in 2014, we already had the chance to assess the power of the Serbian Progressive Party that lasted almost two years. Always, gentlemen, the elections are an opportunity to assess and sanction bad authority, and the next election will only be an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11755	I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to vote on the injury in voter day? (No) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zharko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11756	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find this amendment unacceptable. The proposed amendments propose a reduction in the expenditure position for the use of goods and services. However, I must point out to you that the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia, provided for funding of 98 billion and 716 million dinars for this position, which is indeed one significant reduction compared to the previous years. Thus, from 2008 to 2012, the previous regime spent the following funds: 2008 – 181 billion, 2009 – 186 billion dinars, 2010 – 204 billion dinars, 2011 – 218 billion dinars and 2012 – 238 billion dinars. So more than double. Therefore, I believe that this is how the Government of the Republic of Serbia saves and rationally spends its resources and I find this amendment unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11757	Thank you. The 3rd amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11758	Thank you. The amendment that we tabled on the amending and supplementing the Budget Law refers to the position, i.e. Article 3, which speaks of around 400m euros in guarantees, no matter what I say shorter, the debt of the Republic of Serbia's budget to "Srbigas". This amendment has been submitted for three reasons. Firstly, I really think that the topic of our dialogue must be about the way in which subsidies are reduced, as it believes that when we talk about amendments to the Privatisation Act and budget cost reduction programmes, about 100,000 people who receive a salary from the budget for jobs that do not exist, these are serious topics that we need to talk about here. So that's why this amendment was submitted. The second reason is that for two and a half years during the previous government's call, one of the reconstructed, we listened to the Minister of Energy that these subsidies should be abolished, that the public company "Srbigas" is doing nothing, that it is... Not to quote a newspaper, not to mention. I don't agree with that kind of communication either, and I think, if there's a concept that "Srbigas" shouldn't get it, then this assembly is the place to talk about it. Third, this is your chance, if you really want everything that's said to be financed by public enterprises to start now. The reasons the government gave me in short are – we cannot end this because the "Srbigas" money, because of the non-market price of gas, because of the inability to charge, because the debts of "Srbigas" are not solely the responsibility of the management and management of "Serbiagas", because you have a special situation with the security crisis related to energy, for various reasons. I understand all this, but I ask you, when will we end the subsidies? If this last tranche remains rebalancing, which I also understand is what the government's obligation means, will it be in the 2015 budget? If it will be in the 2015 budget, will it be in the 2016 budget? Is that how it's gonna be with all the subsidies? If we see in rebalancing and if we see in the proposal that there will also be 600m euros for salaries to employees without a job from the company in restructuring, what should I ask the Minister of Economy – will it also be in the 2015 budget? He can't do both. You can't come here and say -- the first step is to cut wages and pensions, followed by the second steps, and when I offer dialogue on other steps, then I'm told -- "Srbigas" needs money. In less than a month we'll be looking at the 2015 budget and we'll have a stenogram of this session ahead of us. It's easy to interpret what anybody said, and it's even simpler to read what the stenogram said about this amendment and about the budget rebalance. The Minister of Finance has made it very clear – the reduction of wages and pensions is the first step, the smallest and easiest one, and the next one is only next in 2015, 2016 and 2017. I'm asking you who's next? The minister's point is that it will be a subject related to the removal from the budget of employees in the restructuring companies, the reduction of subsidies, the different organisation of the public administration and the alignment of everything in our budget with the state aid law, but it will not be discussed. Sincerely as I am, if I had ever been able to advise the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling majority on how to communicate this harmful and insufficiently analysed measure, it would have been just as it was happening. It's the wish of every opposition. In addressing all those to whom these harmful measures will apply, there are only insufficiently analysed consequences for future and many accusations, which is all legitimate, for moves from previous years, as long as the speaker who talks about it likes to say, we would never do this, but we have to. So the opposition can only wish for such a communication strategy and I am grateful for it, whoever did it to you. The long monologues you have with repeating the words to all remember, so that we don't, but here we have to, irrevocable for anything that's a question, so I ask you – why don't we cut the subsidies to "Srbigas"? You say: "Serbiagas need money". Now I ask you, how far? So, the will not to open a dialogue about it either is, as far as communication and inconclusive reasons to cut just wages and pensions, something I'd like to see if I were in a position, that the ruling majority of the right communication strategy. But I don't appreciate it because the measures, which will be taken, are harmful to everyone, because here they talk about the austerity measures that have been applied in certain countries and because no one mentions that you've had articles in front of you for a year and they find that these measures have not yielded results. They didn't grow, they didn't deliver on what should be a common result of us from the opposition and you from the ruling majority, for which year from today, economic growth, the rule of law, everything that needs to be a common topic, instead of – someone else is guilty, but we have to. Then you bring an amendment that you want not to give up and not a single subsidy, I understand, I am not asking for an answer here, I know what the obligations of the state are, what I find inadmissible about such serious matters is that there is no dialogue here, because this dialogue is also a place for the Minister of Finance and for the Minister of Economy and for the Minister of the Economy and on subsidies and on the restructuring and on the interest and on the responsibilities, and everything here is the place. In order to correct the impression, you are bringing us an amendment to delete the deadline from the Retirement Bill, with your interpretation. I'm asking you not to throw it away, I'm really asking you not to throw it away. I have the right to comment, I have no right to comment, my amendment to other amendments, the amendment is a link. If you like, I can do it until I spend all my time. So, an amendment to another law has been passed here in the statements of colleagues, as part of the strategy -- we wouldn't do anything, because someone else is guilty of all this, but we have to do this, and we don't like it either, and we wouldn't do anything, but we have to. That's not how reforms are implemented. You need to trust in the reforms based on the analysis ahead of you. So, the amendment refers to the fact that we will not reduce subsidies, but we will not even have the time in which the pension reduction law will apply. You say, because they'll be increased again sooner, and I say no, they'll be increased again later. That's how you can read that amendment and that's what I'm talking about. So when I submit an amendment requiring the suspension of subsidies, it is also a request for amendments, but also a request for the opening of dialogue, because I believe in dialogue. There has been one, a very dear event, which is a direct consequence of the dialogue and the announcement of the ruling majority, that they will submit a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the financing of political activities, and I hope that, in Article 16, the word "expension" will be changed in the word "income", as it is my proposal, of this law. Let me explain how much I care about this institution working. It doesn't matter if the author of such a proposal is someone from the opposition or who is the author of the ruling majority. It is important that we have awareness that this law must be changed in that part. I can only express hope that all the comments after this will go in a direction to make it clear how unsuccessful this communication strategy is, because most, about 75% of the words we've heard here, are focused on this whole, is DS's fault. Oh, the poor government, it just has to make some moves. At the same time there goes a sentence – you have no five, six percent. Then he can't do both. It can't be that your whole focus on DS, without really talking about what kind of co-decision you make, and the decisions on wage cuts were made in 2009 and 2010, were valid for two years, among other things, and that you see DS as a threat, and we are not a threat to anything other than ignorance, arrogance, arrogance and insufficient data for serious decisions that will result in bad consequences. Minister, I am not asking the finance minister for this amendment, I understand, "Srbigasu" money needs, but I ask the minister to remember that we need dialogue over "Srbijagas".
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11759	According to the Rules of Procedure, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 106 has been injured. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are currently having a discussion in detail, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law. It is a united debate, but there are currently details of the draft amending and supplementing the Budget Law. When it comes to discussing also the Law on the reduction of wages in the public sector, and the law that regulates pensions, I am prepared to accept these discussions. When mentioned, Mr. Chairman, that arrogance, ignorance and haughtiness, let's go back three years. If I had acted as a previous speaker, and if she had sat in your seat, like she did three years ago, I would have already been given two warnings, and perhaps taken a word. If the demand for dialogue in the National Assembly is this Rules of Procedure that you have written and voted for, then you are in great error, what democracy is and what is the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11761	Mr Arsic, you are right in that sense, but it is a characteristic of all MPs, that they are mostly not sticking to the subject, especially when the debate is in particular, everyone is out, unfortunately. Please, let me explain, I have my own vision, maybe I'm wrong. I'm not that repressive, that's why I'm trying to be all tolerance, we're not gonna lose much to tolerance. I ask you do you want the Parliament to take the vote on this statement in the day of the vote? (No) I have order, I have to respect him, the word is Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11762	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to say something about the amendment. I think that the government has rightly, correctly, professionally, responsibly cited all the reasons why this amendment should not be accepted. In fact, this amendment is one reason for the story that we should have opened long ago, not today, not yesterday, not the day before, but perhaps in the 1990s, what the role of public enterprises is in general in our economy, because all public enterprises, including "Srbigas", can be extra profiters, if they are given the opportunity to charge their services at market prices. That's what everyone knows, who wants to know. The fact is that "Srbigas", as well as the EPS, as well as some other public enterprises in all years so far, and even now, through their prices, are essentially safeguarding social peace. This response by the government and the response of a socially responsible government, because not providing the means to function "Serbigas", means bringing Serbia into trouble with gas possession and the services "Srbigas" provides. I remembered about this amendment to a 2001 situation, but don't think I'm tying up for 2001 because of 2001, but I know after the five-octobaric changes, it was then a requirement for the electricity price to rise to 15 euro cents per kilowatt hour. Today is 2014, the price seems to me, asking around 6.3 for consumers of euro-centi per kilowatt hour. It's been 14 years, the price of electricity hasn't been raised. Why hasn't she been raised, and the economic situation has been better in some years? Why isn't she raised? Because it was about the payment opportunities of citizens. I think the government has made it very precise and clear why this amendment should not be accepted. I think all of these arguments that are mentioned here are not just true, but this main reason, to say the main reason, is that it's not the market price of gas that's kind of stayed aside. It is true that "Srbigasu" needs guarantees, needs money to realise a project to ensure Serbia's energy stability, to realize all those contracts it has, but it is true that in years ago there is the inability to collect Serbia's claims from a large number of legal and natural persons. With the circumstances, I was in a position to personally observe in a previous government in which I participated in 2008, in 2009, when "Serbiagas" repeatedly sought to make an application for an increase in gas prices. He didn't get to meet because, of course, the citizens couldn't pay for it at the time, as they can't pay for it now. This is not a government issue, but is a matter of general relations with public enterprises. We have to get into that conversation and we can get in, but it's only when economic prosperity is secured and the receiving is bigger, then we can talk about it. By then, all governments, including this government, will be in a position to take care of citizens through the price of services, electricity, gas, and social responsibility. I think the Government has given one correct answer and the correct answer with this amendment and has therefore rejected the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11763	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11764	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just in the beginning to say that I agree with Mr. Arsic, who said that the budget is the principle of connected courts, which, if you take away, must be reduced or added somewhere. But what the government is currently doing, it's a principle where it spills from hollow to empty. Public enterprises were created as a need for the state to manage public goods in order to secure profits in the past, i.e. profits paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget. On the other hand, pensioners have been investing in their PIO fund for decades to receive pensions from the fund later. Unfortunately, in the 1990s, when the Socialists and the Serbian Radical Party were in power, today representatives of the Serbian Progressive Party, the fund was destroyed, as well as a large part of public enterprises, so today we have a reverse situation. Today, we have a situation where we can go from empty to hollow. And what's hollow? The cave is actually "Srbigas" and I can understand the arguments that have been said that we do not have a price of gas that is economical, that we have a price that is social, but who should pay that price of gas today? So, according to your proposal, we will very soon after this robbery reduce salaries and pensions to that part of the citizens who earn more than 25,000 dinars and they will practically pay the cost of costing incompetence of the Serbian leadership or, say, the National Bank of Serbia, even those who have nothing to do with gas. So, those who live in the country, who are receiving a pension earned in the city, which is heated in wood, should support today's "Srbigas". For two years you've been conducting experiments, this government has been going on for two years in various transfers, I think it's high time you took serious moves and cut off those subsidies that go to spending in those companies where the salaries are ten times the average salary in Serbia. You said earlier, you probably complained that ministers' salaries are the lowest in Europe, and salaries have been the lowest since some 2006, 2007, I can agree with that, but I can't agree that at the same time the directors of public enterprises that owe huge money have five, six or seven times the salary that you have here who are responsible for ultimately implementing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11765	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11766	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's be honest. So the first thing, you don't give anything from the budget to "Srbigas", at least not according to this amendment, or you don't know what kind of amendment you've written and signed. So this is a guarantee, so it's a plan, but the National Assembly is going to decide whether or not it's going to bail or not, so you're talking ahead. That's the first thing. The second thing, when we get the terms of that loan to raise "Srbigas" we will be able to compare whether these conditions are better, to get credit than those conditions under which the previous credit is returned, and given the credit rating of the country compared to 2010 and 2011, we are currently paying less interest. So let's just discuss some things. What's the problem with "Serbiagas"? The problem is the unpaid claims "Srbigas". Who owes him the most? Well, they owe the most to cities and municipalities. Who was in power until 2012 in these cities and municipalities? A democratic party. You're still in more than half of the municipalities you're in power. Here, you lost the Dove, yesterday or the day before yesterday, but there's no heat there. So now we can choose, not to deliver gas to cities and municipalities and freeze those who heat up on that gas because some management in these same public enterprises hired some of their party friends, and what was charged was on the payroll, not "Srbigas" for gas, so that's the choice you're offering. If we stop giving this guarantee, let's be completely honest, put everything in place. So, say: "Serbigas" is in such a situation, brought before the government's coming to Serbia. Until such a situation that what makes money must be returned to the loans, and what for investment must be guaranteed. Accept this truth once that's true. One more thing, I've heard here several times, they say -- the former regime led by the Democratic Party paid its political price in previous elections and lost power. Here, I accept that's the case, dear colleagues, but it's not just your political price for bad authority. Now we come to who pays for the results of a poor government led by the Democratic Party. I'm sorry for them, for those of you who have lost power, and besides the political price, you pay no one else. I don't feel sorry for them at all. I'm sorry about the pensioners we're gonna have to cut pensions for. I'm sorry for the public sector employees we're going to have to cut salaries, and for your political price, I'm not sorry at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11767	Mr. Sutanovac, replica? I really don't see the reason for the replica? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. I can't hear you. In order for you to sign in, I have to delete the list first. Now sign in. Just explain the reason for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11768	The essence of this amendment that was interpreted by Mr. Arsic, but in one wrong way...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11769	You can answer it again and discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11770	No, Mr. Arsenović, please. I'm badly interpreted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11771	You don't have the right to a replica, he didn't call you anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11772	What do you mean, it's not? So, I'm badly interpreted. In my interpretation, a man misread it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11773	That's your opinion. I don't have that impression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11774	But you didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11775	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11776	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a little tears to go from trouble to DS. Let's get back to the amendment. Mr Vujovicu, we have no illusions that you will adopt the DS amendments, we have noticed serious intolerance to the amendments submitted by the opposition, but we are used to it. So, by rebalance of the 2014 budget, you owe Article 3 another $200m budget for the liquidity of "Srbigas". That's half the figure of how much you're going to save by cutting wages and pensions. So you're continuing with a bad policy, I admit, subsidizing failed or poorly run enterprises, because in two and a half years you haven't missed any chance of missing any chance of reforming these companies and reducing subsidies. Instead, you take salaries to doctors, teachers, you cut 10, 12, 15 to 17% if they worked in the private sector or other places, you reduce pensions by 680,000 pensioners. The right acquired, the property acquired, the house, that's what we've already talked about. If we could get you to talk about the policy of subsidies to failed public enterprises with this amendment, we did it. That is the objective of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11777	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11778	I repeat, and I will repeat what was at the very beginning. I don't mind discussing every single thing, especially discussing the program that's ahead of us. The programme will also be subject to a very detailed debate as part of the fiscal strategy and as part of the 2015 budget and with much clearer budget outlines for 2016 and 2017. So it's supposed to be a newspaper, to commit to three years, not just for a year. Please respect what has been said. First, I'm going to answer this $200 million. This is about something which is the continuation of our obligations to keep "Srbigas" alive, and not by any means prolonging the inefficient business of the company, which has close to a billion euros in debt and has major consequences on fiscal policy. My first priority is to put "Serbiagas" in order, and I would like to ask your support. I said, the newspaper of this program that we're going to negotiate with the Fund since early November is that we're not just going to the cost, but parallel to a serious structural measure, to bring order to public enterprises once and for all. According to our calculations, very detailed, very detailed, three months of analysis, at least one third of the debt increase in Serbia for the past five years has come because we have been unable to control currents, guarantees and other consequences of poor, inefficient business of public enterprises. Therefore, I not only agree with you, but I think it's much worse than what we can say in this assembly at all. That's where we totally agree. I just want to distinguish what has been extorted intervention in this rebalancing from what we are going to propose since 1 January to be part of the programme of resolution of these companies, from the new law on public enterprises, which Mr Sertic will in one part, on appointments, strategies, business plans and resolutions and supervisory authorities, in which I ask all MPs to take active participation and bring these businesses into order, to what we are doing today. So there's no inconsistency. When we say we can't cut subsidies now, it's probably because they're 80, 90% already spent or engaged. In the following year, the gross changes that we will have will be precisely in the area of the reduction of subsidies that do not result, which are the waste of money, which are neither made in agriculture nor in public enterprises and do not give what we want. There are targets not only of "Srbigas", but also of "The Railways", and of EPS and all other things that draw us money and spend resources without effect. Second, very important...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11779	Mr. Minister, I apologize, since you have two minutes to explain, time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11780	Let me explain. So there's no disagreement at all. I understand your concern as to why you think that 200 million dollars that are now in budget rebalancing, why that can be dangerous. The reason why counterpart Antic will explain in more detail is the increased costs, to fill the "Banatic Court" with gas, because of the desire to prevent the negative effect of a possible gas crisis. Another effect is paying those interest that fail from current incomes to cover, which are the result of previous duties. It's unsustainable for the longer term, and we're totally in agreement, and we're gonna get in the way of that, but we can't get in the way of that right now. Now we promise you that in the 2015 budget we will get in the way of that. One more thing, I repeat, for the first time, we give open books to public enterprises in conversation with the Fund. We are the second or third country in the world to be able to put legitimate, structural reforms in the short-term austerity measures. It will be difficult because they will ask us for more data than it is easy to obtain and easily give at all, but the measures will be very precisely defined, supported by structural loans and plans and will be painful for everyone, especially for the management of these companies. I think these companies have high unemployment surpluses, they have too high salaries, they're spoiling everyone's public sector data, they're dragging the most talented people away from production jobs in the private sector, and they're bringing all our businesses into a situation that's unsustainable. I'm just asking you to separate what's being extorted today and we can talk about whether it's possible that "Srbigas" doesn't get into trouble without this. Our assessment was that, if we don't give this guarantee which is a guarantee of short-term lending of liquidity funds, which next year will be reflected in business costs because they increase working capital by taking this gas. It's up to us to put in mechanisms. If you have a guy's comment – let's step up control so that the money doesn't go unintentioned, that's where I totally agree. We can do that, but it's not a matter of budget, it's a matter of another mechanism. You can put it in the budget. Give the amendment to control the intentional use of the funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11781	Thank you. I'm also asking Mr. Minister that they too follow the Rules of Procedure. This time I've allowed it, since the minister may not be familiar. So, when the debate is in particular, ministers have the right to comment on the two-minute amendment, as is the explanation of the amendment. I've tolerated it this time, but in the future, keep in mind that we're all sticking to the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11782	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, and the amendment and discussion of Mrs. Komic, I have seen as an additional incentive that we have more debate on the state of our public enterprises. This essentially maintains the desire of everyone in this room to make public enterprises more efficient, to reduce both subsidies and state guarantees that this Parliament and the budget give to these very public enterprises. That's exactly what this government's policy is, and it's not something that any kind of dispute exists. From that point of view, I, as the new Minister of Mining and Energy, absolutely in continuity compared to what Mrs. Mihajlovic said today, am working towards bringing things in "Serbia" to the level of efficiency and necessary processes that will take place in the company, so that these things will be tempered in the next period and to make this very important system more efficient for us and better business. I don't want to talk here today in a way that anyone understands that I'm defending my party colleague, Mr. Bayatovic, but I have a few things to say. Just today, the Ministry of Mining and Energy, several weeks ago, was able to agree with the Energy Community and the European Commission on the restructuring plan "Srbigas", which primarily represents the alignment of the functioning of "Srbigas" with those requirements of the European Commission and the energy community related to the third package directives, but also contains a set of issues concerning the financial consolidation of the "Serbia" needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11783	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11784	I'll be done very soon. "Srbigas" in extremely difficult conditions works and pays the price of many processes in our society for many years, starting with "Petrochemia", which "Serbiagasu" owes more than 200 million, and the joint decision of all parties sitting in this House was that "Petrochemia" must be preserved, too, by Azotara, MSK, Jelizara, plus a bunch of debts of various local self-governments. On today, only Belgrade's heat plant, or Belgrade's power plants don't owe "Srbigas" or dinars for supplied gas, owes something for certain interest. The whole of Serbia owes "Serbiagas" at the moment. We've filled the Banatski Court. We have about 100m euros of gas in it. This is extremely important for our energy system, but we need to put a little more wind in the back of "Srbiagas" until we get the questions in the chemical industry, in local self-governments, and make a system that will be so that everyone has an obligation to "Srbigas" pay gas, and EPS pays electricity. We still don't have that system today. We still have municipalities that owe EPS 800, 900 million dinars for electricity, and in such conditions it is easy to criticise management, but it is not easy to manage these systems that are extremely complex and responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11785	The word is made by MP Miroljub Stankovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11786	Dear Chairman, I can agree to cut my pension, but I'm asking you to provide us with the conditions. Well, at least let it blow warm, 'cause we gotta get up and go. This is insane. Whoever doesn't believe, come sit here. At least let it blow warm if that's the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11787	This was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but an indication of the conditions in which the MPs sit. I ask the congregation’s professional service to see what they can do and that, if possible, the conditions of sitting are improved because of the failure or the way in which this hall is spent. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11788	The Honorable Chairman, respected Ministers, we have heard some of the arguments and we have mostly called for the past, on responsibility, on gas and electricity supply, and Mr. Minister has now said a fundamental thing, and these are huge debts of heat and public enterprises for energy, especially at the level of local self-government. That's where we obviously saw Belgrade doesn't owe. I think that's where we can see that responsibility that's relocated to the DS. We know who runs the local self-government in these two years, because local authorities are depicted in accordance with the state-level coalition, with the current government. You know how in this congregation we've made some of the decisions that have reduced transfers to local self-government. I think it is very important and dramatic that the issue of funding and the status of local self-government that is in charge of maintaining self-reliance. What about the energy, what about the heating for the coming winter? We've seen an example in Nis, a Hawari because it's not a timely problem in maintaining heat and capacity. We've seen power outages in my town of Nis, where both directors and mayors are just people from the ruling coalition, from the SNS. I think these are huge problems not just problems in Nis. This should be discussed seriously, because this kind of responsibility cannot be constantly put on someone else and especially not DS who has not been in charge, nor had she had the opportunity to do so since 2012, but for two and a half years these people have run local self-government with huge problems and huge challenges that we will all face in this warm season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11789	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11790	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, the SNS parliamentary group will not vote for this amendment for one simple reason because the amendment's proposal is not consistent and it is not sincere. To think, in order to debate the acceptance of this amendment, they will have to say when they were wrong and when they were running the wrong policy. In my hand, I have an impact on the deficit and debt in billions of dinars and everything that has been done in the past, when the amendment's proposer led politics, led the government and led the state of Serbia. Based on the activated guarantee, 0.9 billion were spent in 2007, 4.6 billion, five times higher in 2009, 6.2 billion in 2010, 7.1 billion in 2011, 8.5 billion in 2012. Gentlemen of the amendment, in four years, you've increased the guarantees activated 25 times, and now you're asking to be abolished. Well, when did you make a mistake? When did you run the execution policy, then or now? I would like, when it comes to guarantees, to talk about the guarantees we adopted as the National Assembly somehow expected and already when the elections were called in 2012, when the Assembly was disbanded, when the back-to-back of the assembly majority was gathered in 2012, with one item on the agenda. Do you know what the agenda was? Guarantees for Galenika, guarantees for sculptures in Galenica, guarantees for the latest cars in Galenika, guarantees for works of art. I don't know what works of art and paintings, who knows how much they paid, at Galennica, but the guarantees were given by those who are now asking for guarantees not to be given. I think the investigative authorities have told their court and their picture of Galenika's business. The prosecution and the judiciary will also say in the coming days and weeks ahead of us the final court, but we can also talk about these guarantees that were extorted in one session of the Assembly, which was organised when the Maltena Assembly was disbanded. We can also talk about how much they've grown amounts to increase interest expenditure due to the impact of all these bad items. In 2007, 1.2 billion were allocated for interest in 2008, two billion in 2009, 9.2 billion. So in a year, only eight times that. In 2010, the U.S. 13.8 billion, in 2011 20.1 and 2012, 25.4 were the only interest-based weight you put on the neck of public finances. Healed public finances during one government 20 times. That's not all, either. These interest rates don't reflect what one government has done and has to pay back. I'd be happy if that's the case, but it's not. You've put us in a position that, now next year, in 2015, on behalf of interest commitments that have been badly assessed and accepted, we're going to need a billion euros. Then from the same amendment promoters comes a bad message to friends from the United Arab Emirates, from which we get credits from brotherly, cousins, those who are literally given to us, it's better this way, pay bigger and bigger interest and get us to pay one billion for interest only. I guess it's better that way and it's better to run public finances and better increase guarantees by four years 25 times, and then sit back and say that we don't need these guarantees.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11791	On what grounds? (Gordana Comić, from the scene: If you think I have a basis, if not, then according to the amendment. I don't see the basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11792	Your right, then by amendment. In an attempt to argue why they will not vote for the amendment, just to add, it is much less important whether the decision to submit the amendment, as the quoted speaker says is sincere and consistent or it is evident that the ruling majority is repeating all the mistakes against which it is against. There's a huge difference. You're clear, the austerity measures that are being called here, and by reducing wages and pensions, they haven't produced any results. You can consult the analysis of the miscalculation of Professors Reinhart and Rogofas of Harvard University, which has indeed shown that the errors in something presented to decision-makers are completely wrong and interpreted and applied, the measures concerning the reduction of wages and pensions. What's legitimate for each ruling majority is that you try to explain your better moves by those who once were able to manage public affairs. What's unreasonable is that with the same actions and repeated mistakes of others, just because they're your mistakes now, you explain that it was once a mistake. To give an illustration, that I have a different approach, the MPs Jorgenka Tabakovic and Veroljub Arsic were absolutely right when they criticised the 2011 Law on financing political activities. I don't have a problem with admitting it and submitting the bill and publishing it the day before, as I have no problem saying that I am glad to have the ruling majority do because it's not the subject of who once said it, the theme is what who did it. Until we understand it, I could illustrate to you that this debate might seem to be sorting out all the difficulties of working with The Hague, all the problems of the assassination of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, all the tragic events in this assembly of the same people who forgot about it, have been harmful to all of us here. I could tell you about the return of 12 pensions for senior pensioners and 24 for farmers, the stabilisation of public finances. That's no use. It's unproductive, and that's why I told you the most honest and well-meaningly, or we want to talk about topics that are really being changed, or we're going to stay out of our minds -- we don't want to talk about these changes, do we? Both can't. I think this is the first thing I'm suggesting is inevitable, and you're willing to spend how long on quoting the data that is in favor of what I see and what is measurable. You repeat the mistakes of various previous governments and now you claim to be good, only because they are yours. This does not benefit either the opposition or the ruling majority, but we all have common damage. It's up to you to avoid the common damage. Thank you. (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: Replica, mentioned. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11793	Please, you can answer by amendment, but you'll have to wait. (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: I am mentioned. ) Please, I have the same criteria for you, so I try to make it a similar criterion for everyone. So you can do it by amendment, or you can do it by the Rules of Procedure. Mentioning someone isn't always enough reason for a replica. Here's Arsic, based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11794	Mr. Chairman, if you do not have the right to a replica of a member who regulates the right to reply, 104 mentions the name and name of a MP and if it is not incorrectly interpreted to you, and for me, it is very offensive to repeat their mistakes, I do not know what more can be the basis for replication. The difference between us and them is that we correct their mistakes and they won't admit it. That's the problem. Whether the measures that are constantly mentioned to yield results, I said – will not permanently, but buying time, artificial breathing, catching air while the investors you chased out of Serbia are back, or bringing new ones. That's what this is all about, and that's why I was thinking, Mr. Chairman, that I have the right to exercise my right to the Rules of Procedure and Rule 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11795	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. However, I am still standing at the point of view that you had no right to reply, but you can plead. No, I don't. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11796	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, I imagined today we would lead this debate on amendments to a larger argument. The minister made it clear in his speech, and I cannot believe that such an amendment is submitted by those who have even launched borrowing and launched guarantees based on negative business and on the liquidity of the business "Srbigas". I will remind you that resolving the issues of public enterprises and their profitability, their sustainability on the market, is what represents the second stage of economic reform, following the fiscal consolidation that will definitely be implemented in this way, is exactly going to solve the problem not only of guarantees, not just subsidies and transfers to public enterprises, especially in the energy sector and their subsidiaries, I must also point out to Azotar. The problem of Azotara is not a problem in the previous year or two, but rather a problem in the past five or six years. I want to say that this is the second phase, as the second phase will be to solve the transfer to the 2.5 billion-euro PIO Fund. What represents the difference between this government and those previous and previous 14 years is that this government and the prime minister have a clear vision of how economic problems will be solved and what is the goal that this government is and how it should do business and things in the economic field, in economic terms, so that we can have what is most important to our country and that is economic growth. What I must also point out is that these amendments cannot contribute. So, I expect that in the next debate during the day we have really one more constructive debate and that the issue being addressed by the $200m guarantee is an existential question for our country. For what reason? For the reasons of what is most important in today's globalised world and is one of the basic postulates of functioning, not economy, but state, which is energy security. My colleague Aleksandra Tomic knows this very well, and this is one of the demands of the European Energy Community - that every country in order to function must respect the standards and principles of energy security if possible, of course, to do so. Our country is serious, our ministry is serious, and in this way we want to ensure our country's energy security so that it can develop, not just an economy, but that we can maintain and ensure a normal life for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11797	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11798	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, I simply wish to engage in this debate to express in some way my relationship with all these measures that are being proposed today and that we must decide on today. In fact, when we talk about the draft new budget, we are talking about a redistribution that will normally have to happen during the next period, when it comes to our finances. One of the measures proposed here, which, of course, causes the greatest attention, is actually a relationship to wages and pensions. I'm simply experiencing it as an extortionary measure at this point, because it's about a budget where there's no funds, at this point, to finance all expenditures. I think that's the way we all deal with us all in the house. When something is not in the budget, it simply can't be shared and it can't be anymore and it can't be endless that there's one such relationship, because we're in a situation where tomorrow what our people are most afraid of is nothing more. Such a responsible relationship can't run, simply, indefinitely and we can't face the situation tomorrow that public finances and the paralysis of the state simply blocks complete development. At this point, I therefore consider it to be an extortional measure which is limited in character and which must have an effect in that part where in the next step we will be quite responsible to discuss where our businesses are today, what their participation is in the economy, but at the same time in filling the budget and in having a responsible relationship with it, and at the same time, the announcement of the Government is already seen, by discussing new financial investments and the creation of new jobs. Without that, without opening and employment opportunities in the future, simply survival is, not just for generations that have lost their jobs, but especially for young people, difficult to talk about. So I think it's one responsible relationship that puts us in a situation that, in some future session, in some future period, we can talk about what real opportunities are for new employment, not just for changing their ways of recording, but also in a different way, really by opening new jobs. This, from announcements and economists, or businesses, from several countries of Europe, we can see that it will happen. When it comes to the measures that we are adopting today, I want to underline that our people have never been wrong about something that is little, first of all, about what is wrong, and what is wrongly needed by the following measures or possibly by the following measures to correct it. In that sense, I find it quite justified to have this one inter-moment expecting a much more efficient proposal in the coming period and here to be present with the adoption of those laws that will actually provide us with what is perspective, what is work, employment and then quite normally much more diverse, quality and richer social policymaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11799	Thank you, Mrs. Dragash. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Amendments to Article 6 have been submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, a representative of the proposal adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS, and I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga and Mr Dejan Chapoo. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment, the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11800	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked for a word on the amendment to several DS MPs, related to "Srbigas", so if you could allow me to state the position of our parliamentary group. Thank you very much. Simply, as a parliamentary group, we are among those political parties that have always advocated structural reforms in our society. They did not exist between 1990 and 2000. the year, and after 2000, the most talk was about structural reforms, and the least of them were in action. Every government has said that. What Mr Vujovic said today is absolutely acceptable to our parliamentary group. On the other hand, indeed, in all previous governments, the applicants of the amendments regularly submitted proposals for guarantees, as is the proposal that today is required not to provide guarantees for "Srbigas". On the other hand, we have absolutely the moral and political right to talk about all this because we were one of the biggest critics of the situation in "Srbiagas" and one of the political parties that has just sought fundamental changes and structural reforms that are systemic. That's not what happened until today. We have the next phenomenon – we are in favour of the market economy. There's the least market economy here. The price of gas, the citizens of Serbia should know, today is not an economic category. It is a social category and applies first of all, not to the economic issue, but to the political issue. The political question is whether the government will say we will continue with the price of gas that will dominantly have a social category and "Srbigas" will continue to go into dubiosis or we will establish market principles. As far as we're concerned, we're all for market principles. Now, if the guarantees were lifted, which is the proposal of this amendment, which I am absolutely against, that would mean besides not being sure of the warm season...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11801	You're not talking about Kostresh's amendment. I have to warn you. I kept expecting you to go back to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11802	President, I said the chairman before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11803	It doesn't matter. You can't say, so I'll talk about something else now. The discussion was opened on Amendment 6. And now everyone says – I said... We need to talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11804	It's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11805	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga and Mr Dejan Chapoo. Only anyone who has any intention of talking about the Tomamandman will be able to talk. I'm sorry, but that's right. The word is Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11806	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this amendment provides for 160 million dinars of increased funds for the Minority Rights Office in part to finance national councils. It's something that we would all agree to and something that we all want to strengthen the financial stability of national councils. However, we are facing the problem we have in reality, which is that we do not have quality control of spending and have an extremely bad experience of spending the funds themselves that are being transferred to the national council. So, a amendment like this without a proven asset-expension structure can't be supported. I have to remind you that we had a non-quality spending, not to say abuse, a case of two councils, that they were practically blocked by an account in their work. What's important is that we and through the amendments have tried to narrow down the functioning and costs of the Council. I must remind you that we have proposed an amendment in which we wanted that, if the abuses in financial management of all the Councils were determined, we wanted the mandate of the council to be interrupted at that time. We also wanted 70% of the funds transferred to the Councils to go to projects, or project financing. I want to conclude that given the situation on the ground, the potential for abuses that existed and which could exist, yes and in this way the proposal is very clear why one such amendment has been rejected, which is not, of course, a reduced desire for the state to step up and help the National Councils more strongly. What is important is to say as a representative of the Bosniak national minority, I believe as well as all the citizens of this country, and minorities really understand the state in which this country is located and indeed believe that this act is extorted and justified and that this is just the beginning of a better life for all Serbian citizens. The minorities don't want any benefits, they don't want to be positively discriminated in this way, we want all the parts of this country to develop evenly, that all members of the national minorities participate in the quality of the development of this country and we want them on the ground, what this government is really trying to do, to raise the level of life in all parts of our country and all the citizens of our country. I think it's justified for the government to refuse such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11807	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11808	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We didn't want to take this amendment. We think it's very clear that we're not wasting our time, but we see that today is a bad time, so they've all been tasked with reporting against each other, to be on small screens, since obviously ratings are high, but I expected it from members of the ruling party, but not from coalition partners, but it doesn't matter. We believe that National Minorities Councils should receive greater funding, and it is dangerous to replace the thesis that, if abuses exist or spending funds may not be the way it should be, that it should be abolished. According to this logic, we should abolish half of the public enterprises and banks in this country, and perhaps even the government, since each of these institutions has unintended spending of funds, and for that there are DRIs and budgetary inspections, etc., which determine this. If we want to be an integral part of the EU, I think that the relationship with national minorities and national councils is very important, and I think that the additional resources for the development of their indigenous rights that they are implementing right through national councils must be respected and that is why we have submitted this amendment, in order to grant them additional funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11809	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Sasa Mirkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11810	I will not vote for the proposed amendment for one simple reason. You need to know that in the previous period of time, I'm going to talk about it now from the position of local self-government, all of it, and now I'm not blaming anyone, that you don't get me wrong, and I think it's a personal act for everyone to handle something that's being put on him, and that trust to manage something. In order for that money to be secured, local public companies would have to pay their taxes and contributions on a regular basis. I hereby warn, and I say to the Minister of Finance, that in Zajecar, we have the JKP "Klaljevica", Mr Minister, who in 2011 and the first half of 2012, for a year and a half did not pay taxes and contributions. They paid the workers a regular salary and someone was covering them from the IRS. That someone is probably sitting in the IRS today and I'm asking you to deal with this case. For this reason there is no money in the budget for such things as the national councils and other things that cannot be foreseen by this and the rebalance and possibly the next budget. These are the things we have to pay attention to. It's not even the local self-government's fault, it's a matter of a man who's headed a public enterprise. I would ask my colleagues to listen, because this is very important, first of all, for the citizens of Serbia. It is a situation that is repeated probably in many local self-governments with many local businesses. Also, she's not here, Mrs. Comic. I wanted to tell her that there are errors in intentional and unintentional. Every man should learn from other people's mistakes, not his own, because they hurt. There is no energy minister, who I would ask to see with Elektroprivred Serbia to start with local communities, especially in the town of Zajecar, there is "Electroprivred Serbia" and obligations towards us, so this should be respected. Finally, I want to tell you, Mr. Minister, that there is also one difficult thing waiting for you, and that is, we are now entering, not the Energy Minister here, Mr. Antic, we are entering the winter season. Many heats have problems. The only heat that has been privatised in the state of Serbia is the zascara heat. It's privatized, sold by locals to a Czech firm. After that, these Czechs left, they decided to build a new public enterprise. Today you don't know whose heat line, whose heat is it, because all the relevant factors washed their hands. These are things that you should do in government and people in local self-government, and we here in the National Assembly, because these things cannot go unpunished. It is a matter for each family individually, we must not leave anyone unheated, we must leave no one without heating in the winter season, because someone has decided to sell what is good in the Republic of Serbia and where the Republic Property Agency has never given consent to the sale of city heat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11811	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11812	The honourable speaker of the assembly, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the proposed SNS amendment will not accept, or the proposed amendment will be rejected for reasons that are fully justified. The first fully justified reason why this amendment should not be accepted is precisely about the work of privatisation agencies. On April 27th of this year, Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic's exposé said that the issue of all the issues is our country's economy. Of course, not just any economy and not economy on the principles of the transgear, but an economy based on real conditions, or an economy that is developing according to economic growth. We should not forget that this government, as a responsible government which believes that the real economy is the foundation of every country and the basis for increasing the standard of living of every citizen, has already done a lot about creating a legal framework for further reform moves, so in this sense in July this year it proposed to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly passed the Labour Act, the Privatisation Act, and we recently passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation Agencys. This would directly affect the reduction of funds identified for the work of the Privatisation Agency. It lists 502 companies, i.e. 161 companies in the restructuring process. This is exactly the period when the Privatisation Agency should make additional efforts, because it is legally and authorised to implement privatisation procedures. If privatisations are successfully completed, if strategic partners show up to take over the healthy tissue or companies that have a healthy basis for further business, there will certainly be economic growth. Now small funds for the work of the Privatisation Agency can also be tomorrow and how significant funds for economic growth in general and, of course, for funding and language and education and health and culture which, in economic terms, represent an upgrade. The base is economic growth and the development of society. These are certainly reasons why this amendment should not be accepted, and how many former regimes have left an open wound and destroyed the foundation of a country also shows the car factory in Priboj, which is one of the enterprises in the restructuring process. The first statesman to come to Priboj, not to be photographed in empty factory halls and that car factory workers spill fairy tales and empty stories, but a statesman who has come to face real problems, which are long and twenty years old because of the irresponsibility of many previous levels of government, a statesman who has come to listen to workers, but not only that, but also to try to find concrete solutions to the car factory in Priboj, which would otherwise be a shocker and a driver of economic development throughout western Serbia, is our Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. The deal was signed with the Finnish factory and the citizens of Preboj expect an economic recovery of this city. I repeat once again that the resources for national councils of national minorities should, in any case, be sufficient for their activities, but certainly now is not the moment, and especially not the way in which the Ministry of Economy is taken from that classification, which is intended precisely for privatisation agencies. In the end, this government is not a government in one day, this government doesn't make decisions that are one-time and that are only valid for today, and they don't apply for tomorrow, this government is the government of the future. In order to achieve this future, the Privatisation Agency should exercise all the powers prescribed by law and then create conditions for economic growth and then for more money for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11813	The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11814	Dear Chairman, let me say that this amendment by colleagues Kostreša, colleagues of Papuga and colleagues of Capa is extremely interesting and that the economic situation in the country is a little better, there would be a reason that we are talking positively about it at the time. Since in the era of the economic crisis all layers of the population need in some way to contribute to the stabilisation of our economy, I believe that the amendment really needs to be rejected. Speaking of which, I think for three reasons. The first reason is that a very important state body, which is very important for the functioning of the privatisation process, is the Privatisation Agency, because it would reduce its funding process. It would also compromise, particularly under the conditions of implementing the new Law on Privatisation and Restructure, and the status of 502 enterprises, which is in favour of Serbia's modernisation, which the government has defined even during the adoption of the government's programme and during its election. Also, further reduction of financial resources financed by the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency would endanger the business of the public agency, and it should also, by the end of the day, make further efforts, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to its regular activities, to find strategic investors for companies that are in the privatisation process, in line with the modernisation of Serbia and the new Privatisation Act. For these reasons, I propose indeed, and I'm sorry, that the amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11815	Thank you. The 6th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has Dr. Blagoja Bradic, and then we'll set a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11816	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ministers, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, here are a few words to say about the amendment I submitted to part of the budget, i.e. on budget rebalancing, on its part regarding the Republic Fund, i.e. Health financing in Serbia. If you remember correctly, just one sentence, a few months ago in this same Assembly, we removed 2% of the health care from the contributions and transferred it to the pension fund, with the explanation of both the congregation majority and fellow doctors and finance ministers of that time that absolutely no health insurance rights would be compromised to any patient, i.e. No citizen of Serbia and that savings was made by a rational tender, where savings were found at an annual level of 30 billion dinars or 300m euros. Don't lie to the devil, there's rebalancing, and the budget's spending side is down 13.5 billion in rebalance. Yeah, it's down 16 billion. That wouldn't be a problem if it were another position, but the expenditure side of the Republic Health Insurance Fund is the cost of treating patients in Serbia. If you do not return the budget of the Republic Fund to 236 billion, you will be aware that you will deny someone the right to be treated by the Constitution. So less money on the spending side, that means less treatment for patients. In this country, Serbia can reduce everything by rebalance, only we cannot reduce the number of patients with rebalancing. We can reduce their treatment, we can do that, but the number of patients and the disease can't be reduced. So I ask you to reconsider, you have the power, you have the decision, you have the majority of the assembly, you have a committee that can do it by the end of the session, until the vote, and I ask you to return the disbursed side of the RFO and give people back the right to treatment. If that's how you look at the divisions that you took down the clinical health care 3.5 billion, basic healthcare 2.5 billion, those who have the right to the banish treatment of 400 million, colleagues, read the budget a little from the list to the list. You've taken off at the public health offices 170 million, you've downloaded the basic funds for 260 million. You took off the rehabilitation 300 million and the public health office 400 million, I'm sorry, it's not 160 million. Public insurance companies use gro tekpar for laboratory services as instructed by doctors in primary health and clinical resources. So please reconsider and return the new Republic Fund because it was also a promise, and the minister's promise that if the money is missing, it will be given out of the budget. Yes, there's a new 14 billion for healthcare here, but on the rebalance of the money on the spent side of the 16 billion. So you're going to rebalance the budget at 220 billion, you're going to add 14 billion. That's not savings, that means the economy isn't working, that less contributions are being paid, so to achieve this budget that you cut to 220 billion, you add 14 billion. I'm telling you one more time, give the money back to Serbian healthcare so people can be treated. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11817	We have until 14.00 hours, so Dr. Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11818	Honored presidents, respected ministers, members of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So, I understand the promoter of this amendment, I have before me this amendment and an explanation and I think for a reason that the Government has rejected this amendment, primarily because of the technical failure of the amendments, I would not consider it further. However, the very interesting explanation of this amendment is. And that is, I will quote him: “In healthcare besides the lack of personnel, equipment, medicines and installation material, there is also a catastrophic state of lack of capacity for health institutions and network plans. “ With this money, it is meant to transfer money and what a colleague has already explained. I must remind the amendment's promoter that the SNS authorities are headed by Prime Minister Vukic for five months, and Minister Loncar runs this ministry for five months, and the destruction of the health care sector takes much longer, especially after 2000, in all segments. It all worked without a strategy, without enough investment and with suspicious tenders then. I'm saying -- without strategy, I mean first of all personnel, so that's why we have a staff deficit especially from a specialist doctor right now, and in a few years, this problem is going to be even bigger. So, I think the government is doing everything, that this amendment should be rejected and I call on members of the SNS parliamentary group to reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11819	The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11820	Thank you, President of the Assembly. The government has explained why this amendment should be rejected, but I would also like to comment on the need to reject the proposed amendment. Namely, health facilities, as we know, are not created overnight and need continuity to maintain them. Those who have allowed hospitals to fail for years, homes of health, hospitals, without any plans or real needs to employ non-medical personnel and to create a large proportion and a lack of personnel in the health system, as well as the duplication of equipment that stands once unpacked, today we are advised by political wise men, some very caring people, that it should be done and that they have been destroying our health care, Serbian health care for a decade, and many of them from the former regime, how many until yesterday were the feathers of the former regime and in the leading places in Serbia's healthcare system, so I ask them what they have contributed to the preservation and improvement of Serbia's health system. Let them boast of their work results. It will take us a few years to restore to Serbia the reputation he once had in Europe and the world, but as it is part of the overall reforms, I am convinced that with the healing of the entire society, our overall health system will also be healed. And in the end, I would say that there is a project to build and equip health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia and the funds are planned. These funds relate to the maintenance and adaptation of health institutions as well as to the supply of the necessary medical equipment in accordance with the priorities in the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11821	Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour. The session's going on as long as we don't lock it up, I don't know what the problem is. We continue work at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11823	Thank you. Just a few sentences to explain my exposure. It's absolutely true, as my esteemed colleague said, that my amendment was rejected and that's not disputed. That's not at all controversial. For a reason, I accept all of this, I just want to say and to appeal especially to fellow doctors in the congregation's majority, normally and all the other honourable fellow Members, to reconsider their position in the budget for the Republic Health Insurance Fund. In that position, the rebalance has been stripped of 16 billion. If they were removed from one position, or where the last finance minister said there was a saving done by good tendering, I would understand that. But all the positions held by the Republic Health Insurance Fund have been removed, so the money has been cut, at the base health position of three billion, at the position of the clinical centres of three billion, in the rehabilitation position of 300 million, at the position of dentistry of 400 million. For so much money, less services will be provided. I tell you, we cannot administratively reduce disease and disease in Serbia. We can budget, but the disease can't. Let's give people a chance to heal. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11824	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, for the need to pass laws and other acts on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The 6th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Zotan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11825	Thank you. President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first to thank the Government for accepting our amendment. What is the essence of our amendment? It is about the money that is intended to cover the costs of the inter-academic commission. The inter-academic commission was formed in 2009 by the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts and by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. What is the aim of this committee? Why was it formed? The commission was formed with the aim of these two countries' academic academys working to identify civilian victims in Vojvodina during and after World War II. The period was from 1941 to 1948. Every year, we have provided a lot of money for this commission's work, but unfortunately, in the 2014 Budget Law, these funds are not foreseen. So we made one mistake and this amendment of ours will fix that mistake, and it's two million dinars. It's to cover the costs of this commission's work. If this commission worked, they confirm the data, e.g. That, during the commission's work, some 9,000 to 10,000 victims were registered from 1941 to 1948. As for the period 1944 and 1945, there are about 16,500 victims. Here they have not yet taken into account, or have not registered victims from around the city of Sombor and Novi Sad. Once again, thank you for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11826	Thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11827	The Honorable President, dear fellow MPs, frankly, when I was preparing for the principle debate and when I looked at the budget, what made me, of course, someone who runs one local self-government, as President of the Parliament of the Municipality of Topola, is particularly interested among other things in the transfer to other levels of government. It's a classification of 463, it's transfers to other levels of government and because of the viewers who watch this transmission, let's say they're primarily the provinces and there are local self-governments, cities and municipalities. That's where the government of the Republic of Serbia predicted 33 billion 318 million 66,000 dinars and still predicted a pair, to say smaller items such as 20 million dinars for different commissions. These are the country's return committees, I'm going to talk about them a little later, but what's amazing maybe for all of these fellow MPs here, is when I've collected all these items, you get a number of 33 billion 288 million 66,000 dinars, and in the final position of that 463 stands 33 billion 298 million and by simple calculation, without any, say, adding and subtracting, mathematics for the primary school, you can see that 10 million is extra there. To be honest, I thought it was a technical slip. I've tried other positions and other contexts to add and subtract, to see if there's been any mistake and I've found that only in this position in the transfer of local self-government has there been an increase of 10 million that doesn't know where they're from and where they're headed. When I submitted an amendment that I most sincerely believed was just a technical matter, in the reasons why my amendment is being rejected, I will give this explanation for, above all, a fellow MP and citizen here to read, the amendment is not accepted, according to the government's reasoning, because the funds of this appraisal amounting to 33 billion 288 million dinars are intended for non-intentional transfers to municipalities and cities, established under the provisions of the Law on the financing of local self-government. A share of the 20 million funds is intended for compensation to members of municipal land return commissions, while the remaining 10 million are those ten million remaining, says, what is very interesting and please listen to, concerns the funds approved by the solution on the use of the current budget reserve for the transfer of units of local self-government which have reduced the volume of income in accordance with Article 69 of Title 4. Budgetary system law. This is also interesting, as the funds have already been realised, they have become an integral part of the bill. That, Mr. Vujovicu, is the most interesting minister in all of this. It is said that the $10 million funds have already been spent, which is interesting. For the sake of the viewers, let me explain that they were spent from the position of the current budget reserve. For my colleagues to say that the current budget reserve is 2% of the total revenue side of the budget for the current year, it means not of the total budget of 1,000 and 122 billion, but of these 800 and some billion, the amount of the revenue side. What was simply fascinating to me and incredible to the Committee, your professional services, when I sought and when I saw that there were ten million, wrote to one MP that it had already been spent, and that no word in the draft budget, or the rebalancing of this budget, which should be the beginning of real reforms in Serbia, does not write where these 10 million were spent, which municipalities were given. I would ask you, and your professional services should know that the current reserve when it is approved for any city, we get it in the final account that the Government submits to the National Assembly and we adopt the final account with the tax-based solutions both from the current budget and from the fixed budget reserve of 0.5% of the total budget revenues at the level of the current year. It's an amazing thing, Mr. Vujovic, and I would ask you, there's one thing that's a little amnesty in this whole situation, and that's that I discovered when I looked at the 2013 and 2012 budgets, that similar things have been repeated in these budgets. I wasn't an MP at the time, so there weren't any colleagues here who looked at it so precisely, so I'd ask you about one thing, Mr. Minister, that simply a little bit of your professional service take care of this and that someone is sanctioned for this. I honestly believe that you're a man with good intentions, but that with this kind of thing that you call professional services, it can all be, but it just can't be a professional service. If we hadn't come to this kind of awkwardness in front of the tide, in front of the MPs, I would ask that there be no more such things in the 2015 budget, even when the next rebalancings are brought. We can understand all of that, that there's been this kind of failure right now, but I'm telling you, it's amnesty in that part, which in previous budgets has been something like this. I also contacted the DRI, which fully agrees with my finding, that this kind of thing is unsustainable, that you have written in response to the MP that 10 million has been spent, and that in the very text part of the Rebalancing proposal you have not written in a single word where it was spent. That's the kind of thing someone, which is the lady who was on the Finance Committee last night, should be held accountable. She should at least have a cut in salary, if not to lose her job, because she expects us as parliament and you as a government huge job. If you in the Ministry have people like this who put numbers like this, and that doesn't explain it, that's the worst. These men were with previous ministers and brought similar things that my predecessors here accepted without simply knowing what a mistake was made. Mr. Minister, that's why I'm inviting you once again to have someone submit some conjunctivals for this. I understand that this amendment may have had to be corrected. I didn't want to. It's important to me that these things don't happen again first of all in the budgets for next year. Ten million over a thousand billion that's not a big deal, but it's for everyone to know that these things don't happen again. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11828	Thank you. By amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here I am joining my colleague Dragan Jovanovic's appeal, but under one condition – if the Budgetary System Act is violated. I don't think I'm crucifying people on the cross, or your associate who made this draft budget bill. I don't want to point out that it's a description of the appraisal, not the last column that marks the amount. I can no longer explain what is the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, what is the Law on Budgets, what is the Rebalancing Law, so I ask that if it has responsibilities, but only on one condition, in accordance with the Law on the Budgetary System, and if it does not, then I would ask my colleagues not to submit such amendments anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11830	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Djordje Stojsic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11831	The esteemed chairman, respected ministry gentlemen, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, in Section 20 of the Ministry of Economy, Function 410, then in Section 23 of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection and in Section 27 of the Ministry of Culture and Information, we have proposed to increase 35 million dinars in the first division, 35 million in transfers to municipalities and cities, as well as transfers to cultural and information employees in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. As far as the environment is concerned, we have proposed to increase the amount of donations to NGOs in the area of environmental protection of 10 million dinars. Our amendment has been rejected and it has been given reason to reject it because subsidies are given to private enterprises necessary to meet the commitments undertaken under the Regulation on the conditions and method of attracting direct investment, the Investment Investment Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the "Fiat Group", the Treaty establishing "Er Serbia" and the grant contract "PKC Viring System". In other words, these assets that are neither small nor significant should save these companies that are spoken of. Unfortunately, this once again confirms that during the crisis, culture and the environment must be affected, and I'm afraid the consequences that we will suffer will be long-term, because the damages are greater than those savings that we will lose because of this. What I would like to mention, and what is very important for those who may have forgotten, was the 2012 Environmental Protection Fund, when at the time Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, who led the then Ministry of Energy and Environment Protection, was abolished because of what was then said to be machination, abuse, non-transparency, etc. Unfortunately, a hasty move has been made that abolished one actual European liquid, a European institution such as the Environmental Protection Fund, as funds for pollution fees have been raised in this fund, then fees for the use of flora and fauna, fish funds, etc. and these funds were allocated by means of a competition. The situation that occurred after this fund was abolished has led to, say, a problem with recycling. The other day, there was a speech on television that the recycling companies owed over one billion dinars, that the charging of pollution taxis because of this new situation fell to about 40%, which is direct damage to the budget, then that many recycling companies as young enterprises who saw their perspective in these so-called green technologies have fired part of the workforce and is happening again the opposite of what we all advocate, that many investments want to hire new workers. It is said that somewhere in 2012, when it is by decision or law, it is 25. 09. In 2012, an abolished Environmental Fund, i.e. the law on its abolition, i.e. the transfer of these funds to the state budget, that at that time the Fund was difficult somewhere near five billion dinars, that at that time the competitors were given funds and recyclings and local self-governments and NGOs for certain projects and that due to the closure of the Fund there were some debts, or some unsettled commitments. In 2013 and 2014, the funds were still raised on these different basiss that defined environmental laws, they went into a single and republican budget, but we don't really have information or knowledge of what they were used for. That's what this whole story is all about, that we, wanting at least 10 million dinars to be separated as aid or funds that could contribute to better work by NGOs in the field of the environment, because it's a large number of organizations, let's say, with 112 of these organisations, a memorandum of co-operation was made sometime in 2011, however, that remained a dead letter on paper. Unfortunately, the famous story is that no matter how much the government comes, the environment is connected somewhere with someone else, the minister changes, new ideas come along, and so it happens to both these cyclists and those who wanted to make money, or make money in this area. That's why we felt it would be necessary to assign these 10 million dinars to these NGOs. There's something else I'd like to mention. We are now witnesses, here we see another amendment submitted by counterpart Karic from Green Serbia, related to this mine we talked about these days and for Jalovina and all the problems that meet in the environment. However, that amendment has, as far as I can see, been rejected. We simply don't find a way out of these problems if we still have this kind of treatment of the environment. I just want to point out that according to some data, our country singles out less than 1% of GDP to fund the environment. Other countries that were in transition singled out about 2% of GDP, and the new countries invested 1.5% to 2.5% of GDP in the pre-accession period. We have one strategy, or one report that showed that Serbia's environmental areas require over 10 billion euros in investment to bring order. If in this way we show our desire to do something, to improve, it will not work, because it turns out that in no way do we feel this as a priority, at least those who make decisions and those who deal with this area, in any way, whether they are NGOs or professional organisations, do not see the support that the state should provide, or as a state, we do not provide a picture of the EU, where we want to go and where Chapter 27 is waiting for us, we do not show in any way that we are prepared and self-determined and that we are in the right way to treat this area. Just to point out, as far as I have information, the secretary of state recently promised that this fund would be formed again, but unfortunately, no one will think and consider the damages that this fund has been abolished, which has been impossible to invest properly in this area and continuously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11832	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11833	I'd just like to add a comment or an explanation to the previous amendment. In a technical sense, the amendment submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic cannot be accepted for technical reasons, since the funds indicated in the amendment are not available. I want to draw the attention of the MPs to the nature of the reasoning. The reasoning explains, in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, Article 69(4), the way these funds are allocated and explains at the same time how it is explained in column 7 the state of the budget, i.e. the budget rebalance here in column 8. Terminology may not be intuitive and may not be clear to everyone, but when it comes to a part of the funds, then it means by terminology and the Law on the Budgetary System, part of it and that one refers to something. So, in the right column, it can cost 100 million, but in an explanation it says, 20 million is left over, and the rest doesn't have to be explained, since the rest happened in another way, also arranged by the budget for the previous year, or by the Budgetary System Act. This particular situation, as the MP has already read, 10 million dinars have been allotted by the government's appropriate solution to the use of the funds of the current budget reserve for the transfer of units to local administrations, which have reduced the volume of revenues. This was specifically about a government solution that received the opinion of all ministries, it was brought to the government, it exists in the government. As the government decides on the basis of the current budget reserve, and after that, the funds are recorded in an appropriate place in the economic classification, this is strictly respect for the strict methodology of accounting implementation of the budget. The government was also fully in the domain of its jurisdiction when it reacted to the emergency situation in Kosjeric municipality and allocated to its special solution 10 million. These documents are also available in the Government and will be available in each analysis, i.e. budget control and audit. So I don't think there's any breach of any rules here. Our professional services respected both the methodology and the law 100%. I don't think there's any reason for anyone here to be called responsible. If the MP wishes, we'll send a broader explanation with full accounting data for these transactions, a copy of all the documents that follow this. I don't think it would be right for citizens to think that the government's solution to the emergency situation in Koseric municipality is being allocated funds and is then being registered in accordance with the Budget System Act and how all budget transactions are being conducted. I don't think there's any reason to open any grounds for any suspicion. I fully support everything professional services have done and if the MP wishes, we can send a written explanation. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, I repeat, there is no basis in the amendment for the proposed amendment to be accepted this way, as the proposed funds come out of the budget allotment framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11834	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11835	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, the President-in-Office, I appreciate the proposal that fellow Members have made, but I cannot vote for several reasons for this amendment. First, which I think the Republic of Serbia must fulfil its international obligations, and the funds that have been denied by the amendment have been denied in position -- the fulfillment of international contracts, I think, as far as "Fiyata", "Er Serbia", etc. Those contracts were signed by two governments. As for the "Fiyat", one government signed, and as for the contract with "Er Serbia", the other government signed it. These are interstate commitments that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must fulfil and this amount listed in the budget rebalancing is the amount that the Government of the Republic of Serbia under international contracts signed by the two previous governments must meet by the end of the year. That's one reason. The second reason is that these funds are proposed by the amendment, 35 million, to the extent that it would deny contractual obligations under this position that I was talking about, it was intended in positions – grants to NGOs in the Ministry of Environmental Protection. So, highly esteeming the environment, costing environmental organisations, 26 million dinars have been allocated for their work for the whole year, and the amendment's proposer asks for another 40% to be singled out, another 10 million dinars for NGOs so-called. NGOs in the environmental protection position, which means that these funds do not go directly to protect the environment, but indirectly through NGOs should be used for this purpose. With that in mind, I have to say that these increases at first sight seem to be 40%. However, when you think about it a little bit, given that only two months remain until the end of the calendar year, the promoter predicted that the funds would be spent over the next two months, in order to meet this amendment, NGOs would have to spend 400% more money per month than they have spent, because they had about two million dinars per month, and now they would get another five million in the next two months, which is a huge increase, and 10 million dinars should only be spent in the next two months, given that it is not the budget, but the budget rebalancing. Which is a lot - it's a lot. Between the economy and NGOs in the next two months, I still choose the economy, although I respect NGOs, especially environmental protection. The second part of the proposal concerns the services of archaeological heritage. The amendment suggested that instead of 124m dinars for archaeological heritage at the position of the Ministry of Culture, the item envisaged for the economy and the fulfillment of international contracts for Fiat and Er Serbia, a new 35m was awarded to the centre of the position and 159mm dinars were allocated to the archaeological heritage. This is an increase of about 30% and I wonder how this cultural heritage facility will manage to spend over the next two months 35 million more than expected, given that 10 million dinars are foreseen for them each month. This means that in the next two months instead of 10 million they should spend 27.5, which is too much increase, given this amendment proposal if they adopt it. For these reasons, I cannot support and vote for an amendment which, on the one hand, dispute the contractual obligations that the two governments took over by signing the contract and place on the burden of the state to increase grants to NGOs and an organisation dealing with archaeological heritage by 300 to 400% over the next two months. I think it's a lot, and the amendment promoter didn't care that it wasn't all year, but that it was just for the next two months. Between the economy and this public sector, I always choose the economy. That is why I am giving the advantage of the position that the Government has provided for, and these are the fulfilment of the international obligations for the companies that I have listed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11836	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11837	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, cannot accept this amendment, especially in the part relating to the ecological part. As an environmental policy has been conducted, we've had opportunities to see for the past 12 years. They cleaned up everything, especially the budget. So we now have a lot of problems, and according to EU and many other organisations, our ecology is at the bottom. Except for these other things we have to settle, we have to finish this job. As for the painful point, which is the Environmental Protection Fund, I responsibly claim that no single dinar from the Environment Fund has gone to state relevant institutions such as public health institutions that are mainly concerned about environmental protection. He went to various cultural artistic events, various performances and mainly served, not to get me wrong, to transfer funds from this fund to NGOs whose owners were mostly persons directly associated with representatives of the ministry at the time. Therefore, not only did they clear the budget, they also cleaned up the Fund and it was rightly abolished in this way when it was abolished in 2012, because the state and citizens of Serbia had no use for these funds. Local self-government has so-called. ecological fees rerouting for dedicated projects and whose funds are controlled. So our environment has suffered nothing because of the abolition of this Environmental Protection Fund and has never been spent on purpose. So I think 10 million is too much for the NGO in two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11838	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11839	Mr. President, I must say that I agree with my colleagues that this amendment is being rejected, but the reason for my report was, above all, the reply of Mr. Minister, where the minister mentioned me, in the previous article, had an amendment. So as not to get any more light on all this, I'm asking the Honorable Minister to give me an answer in writing. Mr. Minister, I'm standing at your disposal at the Ministry with your services, I wouldn't call them professional, so we can sit down and see who's right and who's wrong. If I am right, I expect to be commended as one zealous MP who has adequately looked at all the items and positions of the budget. And if I'm wrong, I'm ready to apologize. I said that I consulted first of all the DRI people and these are the people the National Assembly chose, and on the other hand, what's interesting, we are at the end of the tenth month and the current budget reserve has been used for many other things, and not just to help local self-governments that were first affected by floods. When I looked at other items such as subsidies for the economy where I believe it was from the ongoing budgetary interventions on "The Irons", the FAP and any other factories or companies that were to be helped, I absolutely did not see any deviating that anything came from the current budget reserve on that classification or that conto. To be clear, other than these 10 million I've seen as a transfer to local self-government, we'd no longer be lenient. I would ask you and I am at your disposal to sit down with your associates and consider this, because above all, my goal is not to repeat these things in the 2015 budget, to come up with a figure that is not clearly explained to the MPs. We represent citizens, and that's what citizens of their own tax dollars do. So let's sit down, I'm willing to publicly apologize if I'm wrong, but if I'm right to hear it from you in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11840	Thank you. The 6th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Branko Karavidic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11841	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, I propose this amendment to redistribute funds to economic classification, subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations in the division of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure. The sum of more than 15 billion dinars allocated to subsidies, which "Serb Railways", which JP "Serb Roads", say for participation in the Russian loan "Serb Railways" has been allocated 630 million dinars, and "Serb Roads" also for participation in a project to rehabilitate the travel network of 300 million dinars. Part of the funds goes to the construction of the Žeželjev Bridge in Novi Sad, Serbia's corridors, over eight billion dinars of "Serb Railways", by redistributing these funds, as it stands here in the proposal for this rebalancing act by the government. Then, part of the funding of over 1.3 billion dinars goes to "Serbia's Roads" for the maintenance of the road network and so on. All of this wouldn't be weird, every budget and rebalancing so far mostly in this division contained the same. This time, an item subsidising "Serb Railways" amounting to 378m dinars to remove rails and remove illegal objects, and about the project "Belgrade on Water". That wasn't in the 2014 budget. The amendment envisions a reduction of these funds by 200 million dinars. These resources would be defined for the preparation of the State Road Plan for the First Order of the Pojarevo-Kučevo-Majdanpe-Bulgarian Border. The spacious plan of the Republic of Serbia envisions a plan solution for this time. In the very spatial plan, regional accessibility in RS, with regard to eastern Serbia, is particularly related to the Borska and Zajecar County, is classified as an area far below the average compared to other regions. Eastern Serbia, and especially its border area, is not much different from other municipalities of a similar geographical location. It remained cut off from the rest of Serbia, undeveloped, devastated, without foreign investment with a large number of unemployed and increasingly pronounced poverty. Connecting Corridor 10 to the Bulgarian border through Pozarec, Kučev and Majdanpek would boost the primarily economic development of Braničevski, Borski and Zajecar County. It would stop the population outflow, allow for more efficient transport of people, goods and capital. Two strategic important corridors, Corridor 10 and Corridor 7 would be connected – the Danube River. The benefits of international transit through our country and the benefits that provide one such opportunity I won't even talk about. I think Mr. Secretary knows that very well. It is really good that in the division of this ministry it is possible to see funds for the fast traffic station Novi Sad – Ruma, then a belonging traffic station for the Zemun-Borca bridge, then for Corridor 11, Corridor 10 and these are projects whose construction is planned by a spatial plan and the funds for their construction are foreseen by earlier budgets, of course also rebalancing. Why is the project "Belgrade on Water", Mr. Minister, amounting to 378 million, over 370 million dinars for moving tracks and objects that have been illegally built, 16 million dinars for the establishment of work and operation of DOO "Belgrade on Water" and finally, 88 million dinars for design services related to the project "Belgrade on Water"? So close to half a billion dinars on various grounds is intended for the "Belgrade on Water", which, of course, is not in the 2014 budget. I'm interested – how did this project get into rebalancing? Isn't the same project financed from UAE capital? I have nothing against accelerated activities in connection with the construction of Beograd on Water. I can only conclude that anything can be done within a very short period of time and the design and disposal of rails and illegal objects. I'm just looking for the same kind of commitment and understanding for projects relating to extremely important topics, such as the incentive to develop undeveloped and edged areas of RS. I'll be persistent, Mr. Minister. I will submit this amendment to the budget and for 2015. Perhaps the government will pay attention to the spatial plan of the RS, a document that we have set and infrastructure priorities for the next period. It may adopt such an amendment, thus giving hope to the citizens of eastern Serbia that they are one step closer to the goal, which is a better quality of life. It seems to me, Mr. Minister, that the government is doing nothing to establish a balanced regional development. By not accepting this amendment, there seems to be no equal relationship to the needs of all citizens equally. Also, not accepting this amendment shows that its commitment to balanced regional development is purely declarative. I'd still look back on the explanation. In one part of the explanation, it is said – given the importance of this road route for the development of municipalities in eastern Serbia, as well as the development of the RS in the framework of road rehabilitation and road safety improvements in the period from 2014 to 2018, the project technical documentation and the implementation of works are also planned. The programme will be implemented by the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", and the work will be financed from the World Bank's loan, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I was in the session when we and our fellow MPs discussed these very loans. In any of these projects in the tables that are in the descriptive part, I haven't found any planning documentation for this time, and even less decision on how to perform the work on this path will be. I have submitted this amendment that you will actually do a project this time in 2015 that is extremely important for eastern Serbia. However, one more part of your reasoning should be paid attention. You say accepting the amendments would endanger the implementation of the "Belgrade on Water" project, which the RS government has defined as a priority and significant building, significant for the RS and which will enable the attracting of investment and engagement of construction operations, speed up Belgrade's further development as the capital and indirectly throughout the country. As for that, I really don't have any comment. I think we should let the citizens see for themselves what the advantage is in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11842	In turn, Dragan Nikolic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11843	Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the RS, we will not accept such an amendment. There's a lot of reasons, and I'll only name three. First, the SNS will work with its coalition partners in this government to develop evenly regionally RS, to make roads as already done and everyone in Serbia knows this and Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, and the railway will be brought into order as it has never been, especially in the previous 12 years. All the colleagues who have given amendments today, which are logical, I would say, at the time they were in power, are now not logical. They are now in complete contrast with the government's policy, with the government's president, Mr. Alexander Vukic. We had our ideas, and we stick to those ideas. We made promises. We keep those promises. What is important to say is why we will not accept this amendment – I can understand that it is required to make a project documentation for this route, it is very important and that part of Serbia, as well as Belgrade, but it is necessary to make the first machine, a locomotive, and the locomotive will, of course, be the project "Belgrade on Water", which is accepted by everyone in the world, praised and which will give enormous results to the development of Serbia's economy on new investments, in the possibility of all of the world's companies coming, to employ our construction operation which is one of the major items in our economic development. Many people who don't have a job today will be employed. Therefore, "Belgrade on Water" will be a locomotive of RS development and everyone knows it, including the applicant of this amendment. This amendment has not been accidentally given, it is not an attempt to push the hand and that this money provided for "Belgrade on water", i.e. for removing the track, and we heard the other day of the Prime Minister who said it was very much worked, that 15 or 16 km of railway was removed and that of 250 and 260 people, the natural persons who have their facilities there, with 70 made an agreement, and the rest of them agreed on how and what to pay, because we want to enable all these people and accommodation, provide adequate and fair compensation. Therefore, I think that the SNS parliamentary group will never accept such amendments, because they are obviously with the idea that everything that is positive and everything that is a good idea for Serbia and everything that draws it forward. Obviously someone wants - the worse it gets, but with us, I'm sorry, you're not gonna make it. We have shown that we are strong and that we know what we want, we support this government and of course we will vote against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11844	The word has the People's MP Branka Karavidic, according to the amendment, because as you have explained, it is so above the point of view.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11845	Thank you. Once again I ask the minister - is the argument given on this amendment and the reasons why the amendment is not accepted true or is what I own as someone who was at a session discussing loans from the World Bank, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is intended to rehabilitate the roads in Serbia? So, neither of these agreements mentions the way of the front row, the state path of the first row of Pogorjevac-Kučevo-Majdanpek, its neither planning nor designing nor building itself. So I'm interested, is it true what we voted here a few months ago in the Assembly or is this the exact explanation? That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11846	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11847	Just two brief explanations. The first explanation is that the amount that stands inside is intended to be done in preparation, to finance preparatory actions for the Belgrade Water Project, it is logical that they take place months before the main works start, hence putting it into rebalancing is completely logical and every country in the world, or if a larger project appears where preparatory work starts in one year, and the project is expected in the following year, it exists everywhere. We think this amount is completely explained. It was done on the basis of the government's conclusion and there's full documentation for that. As for the Fireman Road, from where I'm from, to the border, we don't have the current documentation that we have here at hand, the data on that. I think that, even after its nine thousand days in the World Bank, the World Bank or includes funding projects based on which project loans are given as part of the so-called “Project Preparation Facilities” or otherwise being done. Therefore, I am convinced that there is an answer for this, although I do not have an exact answer to your question at the moment. So, that 200 million, as far as you've predicted here, I'm sure, in other words, that the paperwork will certainly be provided. Whether additional funding will be sought or funds from existing loans will be realised, we will see. If we can offer you an answer, a written answer within a legal time limit, please allow us that possibility, because I am sure that this issue will be resolved. I don't think it's a solution that reallocation from these funds that are calculated at some minimum necessary amount is necessary to move these railways and move illegal facilities to ensure the next phase of Belgrade's water preparation. I don't think it would be right if we stopped it because of this second question that's completely legitimate and you'll get a written answer as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11848	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11849	Dear Madam President, distinguished ministers, respected members of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, I will talk about the amendment number six, tabled by Mrs Branka Karavidic on the proposal for a law on the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's 2014 budget. Analyzing in detail this amendment, Mrs. Karavidic, I believe that this amendment cannot be accepted for two reasons. The first reason is because the funds have already been provided by the Project Law of the Republic of Serbia from 2010 to 2020. As part of the rehabilitation of roads in 2014-2018, funds are also planned to be provided from World Bank credit funds, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Participation of RS. As far as the second reason is concerned, the second reason is that by redistributing funds already identified for Serbia's 378.873,810 dinars and their re-distribution to the Pojarec-Majdanpe-Kučevo-Bulgarian border would significantly endanger the vital Belgrade water project, which I must say is of capital importance. Displacement of railways, rails and dislocation of buildings in the position of building Belgrade on water, these funds are necessary. The reduction of these funds would slow down and have a significant impact on the delays in works on building Belgrade on water. Belgrade on the water as a single capital facility that will employ a large construction operation, also thousands of workers, is simply a priority at the moment. The priority is Belgrade's pride, Serbia's pride, which will speed up and improve Serbia's image in the world tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11850	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11851	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We will not vote in favour of this amendment, but we are glad that Ms. MP has become an advocate of Serbia's decentralisation and even regional development, because we as a political party have pierced everyone's ears on the political scene of Serbia seeking that Serbia and all its parts develop evenly. Why won't we vote, despite this principle of goodwill? First, something that is secured from other funding funds is required, and this country's path is financed from the budget by Pogorjevac-Kučevo-Majdanpe-Bulgaria border. The funds will be provided from loans from the World Bank, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. There is no need for something other funds will be provided for, which is already foreseen by the spatial plan of RS, to put on the burden of the budget, and on the other hand, we have one capital project of vital importance, not only for Belgrade, but for all citizens of Serbia and for many investments, the Belgrade Water Project. Indeed, two weeks ago, I passed this road from Kučev to Majdanpek, I didn't go to the Bulgarian border, but I went earlier, and it's really in catastrophic condition. Of course, the SPO which has asked this government countless times – what will it do in a strategic sense in terms of the dramatic degree of indevelopment of municipalities and cities in Serbia, because we do not have the discharge of only eastern and southern Serbia, even now because of the unequal development of municipalities and cities in Serbia, we have even the discharges of Vojvodina, as our most developed work, my Shumadia, the whole of Serbia? Even cities are emptied, due to the absence of investments, due to the absence of large infrastructure projects, infrastructure investments. Unfortunately, after October 5th, we climbed to 1:15 or 1:20. It's the slowest statistics in Europe. We're also on the negative list. However, in addition to the principle of good intentions, which we support, regardless of who stands for Serbia's decentralisation, we will not look at political belongings, we will always in principle support such a intention. If we really look at the essence of this, and these are primarily sources of funding, we can't support it and we can't support it because these funds will be provided from other sources of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11852	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11853	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I come from the Fireman. I'm really pleasantly surprised from where I now care so much about my native fireman and that dog. It is the same Kučevo, which was released from the legal system of the Republic of Serbia from 2004 to 2012, because then the president of the municipality of Kučevo did not support the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, and you did not give them one metre times. It's the same one where you abolished the Health Services, so the patients had to go to Petrovac to confirm the instructions to go to medical institutions. Now suddenly 200 million dinars for roads. To inform you, the project is already under way. We do not share Serbia with those who support the prime minister and president of the Republic and those who do not. It is one Serbia, one are citizens and all need to benefit from the Republic. But if you want to define budget funds for some of your goals, so be it political, at least don't attack other goals. The fact that you attacked the second project, perhaps completely worthless and unnecessary, puts you in that plane as an amendment bearer that your wish is not sincere, but that it is exclusively inspired by politics. I don't mind, define resources, but I think 200 million is a lot more than is really necessary. The second thing is, the project is already being created, the CIP is already doing the project. You should have informed yourself, and there wouldn't be a need for this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11854	Branka, you after the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11855	I want a replica because I'm mentioned by name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11857	Thank you. I am very sorry that many colleagues, convinced of the truthfulness of what is written in the explanation, stand firm behind it. I call on them to find a document on the website of the public enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" that says that the funds are defined for the production of the design documentation of Pogorec-Kučevo-Majdanpek. I call on all my colleagues to return to June when we adopted the Law on Loans, the World Bank and everything else, where there are tables in which travel routes are given to be rehabilitated. I beg you, don't tell the truth. As far as the remarks go, let's just remember that I've been from that neighborhood, for your information, I've submitted this amendment since 2009 to both the budget and the rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11858	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11859	Just brief information. As promised, we'll send you full written information. According to my previous information, I don't have the details, it's a project signed, or ready for last Friday's signing two days ago. Therefore, it is a completely new information that was not available in June of the month. So it's a joint project of the World Bank and of the European Bank. As I said, we will provide you with full information both on funding and on the means to prepare travel routes that will be financed under this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11860	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Boban Birmancevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11861	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, simply this amendment, this kind of amendment, where from one position, which is extremely important and perhaps most important in the perspective of this rebalancing, the funds are trying to transfer to a completely different position, which, of course, is seen from the angle of any MP and any citizen of Serbia, is certainly acceptable. Of course every MP, according to where he comes from, would have a desire and would have an effect on the way. I would, as an MP from Capca, of course, like to make the highway Shabac-Ruma-Novi Sad. Of course, that highway will come one day, but when the conditions are met, when the government and the competent ministers make that decision. The budget rebalancing, Serbianly speaking, is actually a budget correction. What does that mean? This means that a correction has been made in relation to the cross-section of today's state of affairs from 1 January to the end of August of the current year. We did not have any planned floods in this budget, and we did not foresee in the flood budget, and we did not have the opportunity to develop Belgrade as well, for the development of Serbia, such as "Belgrade on Water", and of course it is not in the budget. The very word rebalancing, i.e. the correction of the budget, suggests that through this rebalancing, we will put "Belgrade on water" into this rebalancing facility and for this reason it was not in the budget. What's important is, I won't be long because we've heard a lot of things from previous colleagues, it's that the elemental disasters directly affected these budget rebalances and these decisions. What affected even more directly, and we couldn't influence, is exactly the policy that was led from 2000 to 2012. The consequences of the flood are removed and we will remove them relatively quickly, and the effects of the government from 2000 to 2012 will take a little more time than it will take to remove the effects of the flood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11862	Thank you. The word has Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11863	Since it is obvious that we do not deal with the same things, I do not know what amendments were submitted in 2009 to 2012, but I do know that during that period "Belgrade on Water" was a science fiction even the Democratic Party could not see.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11864	Thank you. The 6th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11865	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 amending Article 7 so that it reads - Section 21. The Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Function 450 Transport, Economic Classification 511 Buildings and Construction Buildings, number "88.200,000" is replaced by the number "68.200,000", and increases the division of 54g, Glava 54g1 Administration for the execution of criminal sanctions, Function 340 Prisons, Economic Classification 425 Current repairs and maintenance. The figure ‘24,405,936’ is replaced by ‘44,405,936 dinar’. Let me explain right away, because I don't want anything to be hidden, this classification of 511 Buildings and construction facilities, which we envisioned to remove 20 million from this amendment and from the part of the assets of this 88,200,000 appraisal, is intended for design services related to the project "Belgrade on Water". To be clear, I have nothing against the "Belgrade on Water" project, on the contrary, I support fully the activities of the implementation of the project, but I felt that the time of two months ahead of us by the end of the year is too late to complete the projects and to allocate this amount of funds for these projects. On the other hand, we have needs that can be met during this period. The amendments therefore state why this amendment is proposed. A report by the Citizens' Protector on the work of the National Tortrum Prevention Mechanism for 2013 identified a large number of irregularities concerning material conditions, the housing of persons in institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions. There is mostly one lamp in the rooms, and some rooms are illuminated by light coming from the hallway, heating is not installed or insufficient, so that individual rooms are not used during the winter months. Because of insufficient warming, wet knot hygiene is not at a satisfactory level. It is necessary to comply with the applicable standards in a shorter period of time, so the necessary resources need to be provided. It is important to implement conclusions adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the Justice Committee and local self-government. I will remind all colleagues that we have considered these conclusions this month and adopted as the conclusions of this Assembly. The amendment was rejected on the grounds that it was not accepted for reasons because it is technically incorrect, since the proposed amendment increases the amount of funds in heading 54g, Ministry of Justice and State Administration Chapter 54g1 of the Criminal Sanctions Administration, Function 340 of the prison, Economic Classification 425, Current repairs and maintenance. As part of section 54g, Chapter 54g1 has shown this part of the funds already spent by the ministry, which, according to the Ministry Act, ceased working and the funds proposed by the amendment itself could not be used. I can accept this argument that there is probably a technical error, but it is not difficult to make some of the technical mistakes when the rebalancing you are preparing for two months and the prime minister announces two months this rebalancing comes to us in the Assembly and we have 24 hours to study it, to write the amendments and to hand it over. I think that the objective of the amendment that wanted to be achieved was quite clear and that there was a good will to implement the conclusions adopted by this Assembly and to increase the means to improve the conditions in the institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, you could have, that you had the good will to propose that the Committee should adopt an amendment correcting this technical error and to provide those funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11866	Time, ma'am?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11867	Do I have a few more from the parliamentary group, two more sentences I have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11868	You have no regrets, time has been spent. Your task force has wasted its time. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11869	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, the SPS parliamentary group, and hopefully the majority in this House can draw conclusions from this amendment, i.e. the reasons for the amendment, that the same is absolutely unacceptable for several reasons. The first reason is that, in the light of the amendments, something has been used before us by the MPs recently, and this is the report by the Citizens' Protector on the prevention of torture in criminal and correctional institutions. I really think it is extremely inappropriate for us to generalise, as does the Amendment Proposer, and to use individual cases as a general assessment in all criminal and correctional institutions. That's one conclusion. And the second conclusion, dear colleagues, relates to the indisputable fact that all costs associated with the alleged replacement of lamps, radiators and all other things that are normally to be done in criminal and correctional institutions fall within the costs of regular maintenance and in no case in the costs imposed on this amendment. I'm sorry that as a man who comes from the judiciary, I can see one argument that really doesn't have a place, especially not in fact, because in criminal and jurisprudence institutions and institutions, far more seems to be about what self-financing or collection of income means. Why did the amendment promoter not properly assess what is positive in the criminal and correctional institutions? For the sake of the citizens, I have to point out some facts that are and how affirmative, cannot be doubted. A number of correctional institutions have done much for their revitalization, on the fact that much better conditions are for the housing of convicted persons. We have a number of economies, such as in Pogorevc, the creation of a livestock fund, the fact that during the duration of the flood, which is here to the present ministers and how well known, exactly the criminal and correctional institutions have given a great deal and done much in the sense of providing assistance to those at risk from the flooded areas. Just one example that is not even a little trivial is the fact that a lot has been done from the cattle stock of Pogorets to those families whose stock fund has been destroyed during the course of the flood. There is indeed a lot that needs to be improved and improved in criminal and correctional institutions, but not in this way. I would understand and the full authority would understand the good intentions of the promoter that criminal and correctional institutions have existed only since 2012 or not since 2014, then I would understand, but criminal and correctional institutions have been built significantly earlier. The question arises – if this figure is an exact figure and applies, which is why it did not happen in 2008 to 2012 but is now shown for something that could have happened earlier. Here even mentions a figure of twice the amount planned as a budget item. We, gentlemen, have no MPs, as well as the citizens of Serbia, of this kind of opportunity not to say luxury that now, when we are taking austerity measures, to create conditions for the achievement of income, we are investing even less than 44,405.916 dinars in the construction of new criminal and correctional institutions. Right, that's what we're supposed to do, but in this situation financial opportunities don't allow it. We simply fit into austerity measures, simply the Government has seen in a rational way everything that applies to the judiciary, and I am convinced that the Department of Criminal Sanctions has done much to make the life of convicted persons easier, more acceptable and better. The whole structure of the judiciary-related budget system is extremely rational, extremely thrifty, and therefore, the judiciary cannot literally be shown in any single negative way. I'll just mention that even with very scarce, small means, the judiciary survives, and a sacred example is the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, which in one great way organizes both education and professional training of judges and judicial staff, along with limited resources. Any kind of asset increase, including the proposed amendment, would bring down the concept, because the time in which the state is located, the financial system in which the state is located, such a character, such a nature, that there is no possibility of an increase in funds, and then the amendment is considered extremely populist. In that regard, I believe that this amendment must be rejected, or it cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11870	Mrs. Hasanovic, you probably want a replica? (Biljana Hasanovic Korać, from the post: I am mentioned as the applicant for the amendment. ) Mention is not enough reason for replication. I need to explain to you my opinion. As you defended your amendment, so Mr. Nejko Jovanovic said why it should not be accepted, but I really do not see anything offensive in that sense that it was. Just mentioning a name isn't enough reason for a replica. The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11871	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, the SNS cannot accept this amendment, because if we accepted it, we would deny the Institute of Criminal Sanctions, believe it or not, for 8 million. Now, I'll explain it nicely, but listen carefully and follow me, why this amendment is technically incorrect. Here I read the amendment - in Article 6 which is amended by Article 7. Section 21. The departments of construction, transport and infrastructure, Function 450 Traffic, Economic Classification 511 Buildings and construction buildings, number 88,200,000 is replaced by 68,200,000 and increases the division of 54g. This is what is controversial, Head 54g Criminal Penalty Administration, Function 340 Prisons, Economic Classification 425 Current repairs and maintenance and the number of 24405.936 dinars is replaced by 44,405.936 dinars. If we carefully take the budget and look at it, on page 202, it is said – The criminal sanctions administration, we have 24,000,000, but page 194 is said to refer to budgetary users who have stopped working. That is why the amendment is technically incorrect, and on page 120 relating to the Department of Criminal Sanctions, the Ministry of Justice stands at paragraph 425 of the current repairs and maintenance of 52,118.000. If we had adopted your amendment, we would have violated the existing technical maintenance for the entire eight million and thus your story of protecting and improving the conditions in our convicts' prisons falls into the water. Unfortunately, that's right, the budget has to be carefully read so that we don't get into this situation that we've now found ourselves in, because obviously over the past 12 years we've been reading very badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11872	Thank you. Biljana Hasanovic Korac, wants a replica. Let me give it to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11873	I haven't read at all, I've explained why there was a technical error and I explained, the idea is recognizable, I just want to tell my colleagues who discussed and present ministers that I've been an MP since 2007 and a member of the Justice Committee. Along with that committee, I've visited almost all of the prison detention facilities and I've made sure they're in a state of mind. Since 2007, the ministry has done a lot to improve the situation. It worked to increase capacity above all, and to fix the conditions in the office sanctions, but it has to be done yet, that's the point. I'm not saying there's not much done and there's not much going on in the judiciary and in these institutions, but it's not enough yet. It still needs to be done so we don't get it done because they can't come to order, they can't handle jail time or get released early, and then they're returnees, for all these reasons, this amendment has been proposed for the best of intentions, and I know the situation completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11874	Vesna Rakonjac wants a replica. I'm not sure you have a basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11875	Thank you, Chairman. I'm glad I've agreed with the applicant for the amendment, but still eight million Justice Department and this government have separated at a time like this to improve the conditions in our work for the execution of criminal sanctions. It can only be commendable, and we've listened to a little while ago. Therefore, I thank my colleague for her good intentions, I have no doubt she had a good intention, but she also had a good intention of the government and the Ministry, and we see that with the proposed funds that were set aside for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11876	The 6th Amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS. The word is Hope Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11877	Dear Chairman, I have according to the previous amendment, i.e. Mr Ivan Karic. There's been a problem. Am I right or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11878	Mrs. Lazic, I apologize. I'm being intervened that we've moved to Amendment 13, and you're talking about an amendment to Article 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11879	You didn't see it in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11880	You weren't logged in, at least it wasn't registered. Thank you. Anyone else want an amendment to Article 13? Since we've completed our search of all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda – the proposal for a PROPOSAL OF THE PRIOR AUTHORITIES BASE FOR THE COURT AND ISPAL OF PAYMENT, RELATION AND OTHER PERSONS WITH THE PUBLIC AUTHORITIES OF PUBLIC RESISTANCES You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Marko Đurišić, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snežana Malović, Goran Bogdan Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić, Dr. Blažje Bradić, Zoran Živić, Vladimir Pavićić, Boris Stefanović, Gordana Šutanovic, Dejan Sutanovac, Balša Bozinović, Goran Božović, Ivan Petrić, Mrran Živić, Mran Živić, Vladimir Pavić, Vladimir Pavić and Mran Živić, Nena Čaljan Čanžić, Janjić, Pažić, Palj, Palj, Pažić, Pajan, Pažić, Pajan, Pažić, Pajan, Pajan, Pajan, Pajan. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. At the title of the bill, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I would just like to say that the basic explanation that we have submitted this amendment is that the temporary reduction of the base for the payment of salaries, i.e. profits and other permanent incomes from public users, i.e. salaries of public sector employees, is an economic measure showing that the government has no plans or people who can get the country out of the crisis. I'll remind you only of your promises which is just one of the reasons the DS submitted this amendment, and I'll start first from 5.12.2013, just a year ago. The prime minister of Serbia has made a statement that there is only one promise that you will live much better as citizens in 2014. I quote: "I am convinced that by next Christmas, all citizens will feel better, not just politicians and tycoons." What's definitely the case here today is that only tycoons feel the improvement, and above all those who have no obligation to pay taxes in the end and politicians who make up this government today. I don't think it was the idea for government ministers to be better both state secretaries and foreigners or parties who are in power, but for all citizens who are really having a hard time surviving this reduction in wages and pensions. Today we had the opportunity to hear that only 200 million from the budget were allocated for one, as we said, a failed company, "Serbiagas" and also to be in debt for another $200 million when it comes to "Srbigas". So, together, it's slightly less than 400m euros, and the savings that are collected through pay cuts and pensions are less than this amount. So here we have a big problem with the purchasing power of those people who have reduced wages and pensions. What about the students, and they're often funded by the pensioners? We have a big problem, and there are countless people who appear to us today as citizens because they are concerned. Parents no longer have the means to send them to studies, their grandparents no longer have the means to single out for their studies. We have a lot of people who pay more and more tuition every year, and today we simply don't have the opportunity to help and come out to meet those who need help most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11882	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11883	You know, we've been listening all afternoon so we don't save enough and save too much, so we listen to us invest, we pay guarantees, we don't pay guarantees, and then we listen to us borrow too little or we borrow too much. If we don't want to pay for gas, we won't pay for gas. We don't need gas. Why do we need gas in Serbia? We don't need energy in Serbia, we don't need a mule in Serbia. Don't pay for it. We don't need heating in Serbia. It's a fantastic savings. We don't need our gas business, so it's even brighter savings. Well, don't be such a demagogue and talk about how hard it is for students right now, as if we weren't in a party that conducted the privatisation, which the parents of those students took the job and the property. So that's not the problem. It's not that we're in charge of unreal pensions, it's that we're trying to get them out now. Do not tell us that it is difficult for the people of Serbia. We know that, we're part of that people. We have never separated ourselves from this people, and we do not separate ourselves. We never came to this people to privatize them. We didn't end this people's free education as the most devastating at the time. In 2000, it was said that it was a relic of socialism, that it was something terrible. Well, we're not. Let's talk here and when we talk about amendments, we talk about real things, whether we need gas or we don't need gas. If we need gas, we have to pay for it. Apart from Belgrade, all local self-government in the state of Serbia owes for heating. Should we pay for it or not pay for it? Turn off Serbia's heating or not to turn off Serbia's heating? Almost all factories, almost all of Serbia's industry owes for gas, owes for energy. Should the state subsidize production or fire all gas-deposit workers nicely? Right away, it's settled. We won't have to give any subsidies, nothing, just fire hundreds of thousands of people. I pray, indeed, that when they think, when they speak, they do not turn to their mirror so that they would like it to look, but to address the people as it is true. It's hard and we do what we have to do. It's not a terrible thing to admit, but it's terrible to pretend the world started yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11884	Zoran Babic has a word, a replica of the exhibition of Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11885	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic, for your patience and for your patience, Mr. Chairman, for your word. The applicant of the amendment is quite well - attitude, security, but only one component is missing, and that component is true. The truth is on the other side. I will risk repeating myself and repeating myself until the truth is spoken in this congregation, and the truth is on the other side. The tycoons, which the applicant identified as a problem and which we did not charge taxes, I believe it is a kind of auto-projection, because, for example, only Mr. Predrag Rankovic Peconi 12 days ago, with a high risk that his tax obligations become obsolete, because by 2012, the government had turned its head on the other side and did not interfere with that, nine million euros in taxes were charged. Furthermore, Luka "Belgrade", Milan Beko, charged 170,253,019 dinars in 10 months this year. A quarter of that amount has been charged for four years by the government of the applicant. In four years, a quarter of what this government of the Republic of Serbia has charged in 10 months? Then what are you talking about? Who are you calling responsible for not charging tycoons with taxes? Furthermore, one of Mark Miskovic's sons, Miroslav Miskovic, is "Mera Invest". Total amount of debt 878.404.131. In the period from 1 January to 23 October 2014, barely 163,000 dinars were charged. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: time.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11886	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11887	I'm finishing it, even though some people are getting it because they can't hear it. For God's sake, they are hypersensive when it comes to Miroslav Miskovic and the obligations his family and his company have towards the state, and they are not charged because they are not even established. The state was also the government until 2012 where it did not want to determine the tax to Miroslav Miskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11888	All MPs, please, when it comes to the replica, respect the time. I know it's not convenient to interrupt you in half a sentence, but you can kind of adjust your time, or your exposure with time. Right on line, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11889	Thank you, Chairman. As Minister Vulin said earlier that he who is against such a law, that he is against gas and that he does not want gas to be paid and that we do not think that gas is necessary for Serbia. No, we think that gas is needed by Serbia, but we think that the monthly income of 37,000 euros for Serbian director is not needed by Serbia. That's where we differ, Mr. Minister. And not only that, we have countless examples today. If we really want to accuse all of the former regimes, we have had and what to say about this regime, because that part that represented the regime is no longer in the DS, but we can ask how much has been employed in the cabinet for these two years, for example, by Jorgenka Tabakovic as governor of the National Bank of Serbia – over 50 persons with astronomical salaries. That's not what Serbia needs. Ninety people have been newly employed for the last two years at the National Bank of Serbia. That's what Serbia doesn't need, and that's the difference between those who are creating a political scene today and us who are trying to make citizens better. That's why DS is against salary cuts and pensions, because we can't afford to keep quiet while the government does things like this. And we're not against gas, but we're against a failed company that just pours itself into a well that has no bottom. We think it's bad that we're cutting salaries and pensions for Serbian citizens, because this way Serbia's economy won't recover, we'll get much worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11890	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11891	I really didn't know that Dusan Bajatovic became the director of "Serbiagas" yesterday. I thought it became 2008, which is probably my fault. I guess he got that salary based on the 2008 laws and decisions, and as for those who are part of the coalition led by the SNS, I know that we double functions, and we don't have double receipts, and we won't. If you ask me personally, I think managers and public enterprises should be rewarded according to the results of these companies, but that's my personal opinion, I can't impose it on anyone, there's no law in that sense. So, it is not the healthiest to criticise Dusan Bajatovic's salary, determined by those who brought Dusan Bajatovic to that place and were with him all the time. If you're asking me if I'm criticizing that height, I'm criticizing it, but I just think there should be a slightly different relationship. One more thing to add, the tycoons in this country were created by privatisation. The privatisation was conducted by political parties that ruled this country until 2012, period. Another very important thing, pouring into failed businesses, if you mean enterprises in restructuring, which are 157, they've been funded from the state budget for almost 14 years. We, therefore, have not been able to participate in this for 14 years, participate for two years. We're taking part because it's not moral for those people who aren't responsible for their state-of-the-art condition, now simply throw them out on the street without a solution. For the past 14 years, if someone hadn't been afraid of a choice, he could have found a solution, he could have, but he wouldn't have.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11892	The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11893	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of article 107, which says that the Assembly is forbidden to use offensive expressions. When Mr. Minister says something is not healthy, I think you are obliged to warn him, because here the only thing that may be unhealthy is unhealthy policymaking by the government, which today convinces us that we have increased the salary of Bajatovic, and the topic is not pay increases. The theme is that today you're still increasing that salary, and at the same time you're taking pensioners and employees. So today you're working twice as naked. Dusan Bajatovic has a lower salary today than he will have in December, and employees and pensioners will have a lower salary than they have today and that is a fact. He means, bigger, they're smaller. That's one policy that's obviously causing a lot of anxiety by colleagues. I'm sorry it's like that. You can laugh all you want. You'll get a chance tomorrow, Saturday, Sunday at the market to explain to the peasants why they can't sell their products, because they have no one, but about that afterwards. Please, Chairman, you gave the minister this morning, and we agreed... I put up with the throws, but you don't hear well, so we won't hear from you. Today, you allowed the minister to speak for five minutes on the line and we agreed, but we did not agree that every representative of the ruling coalition speaks three minutes per replica. Please be rigorous in respecting the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11894	Let me tell you, first of all, thank God I'm still hearing it. Second of all, as far as replicating time goes, I agree. I intervened, but let me in that sense, I'm not comfortable breaking someone up in half a sentence and letting each pass for at least five, six, ten seconds. I agree with that, and I'll try to respect that. That's why I warned you. As for advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, even though you went out of harm's way, understanding what's healthy, what's sick, like you said -- twice as naked, it's now a relative notion that I can't interpret it as a violation of dignity, perceptive. It's a matter of expression. I don't think that's why there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you have the right to plead in the voting day. You don't want to. Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11895	I suggest Mr. Pavicevic gets his word. The third time he gets up, he gets muscle inflammation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11896	You, Minister, can give up if you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11897	I'm not giving up. I need to get involved in this segment of the debate, first of all, for the public. Desiring not to get the wrong idea, that these measures, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia are reluctant to withdraw, related to fiscal stabilisation, are realized that Serbia would have energy and that Serbia would provide gas, lube and other necessary energy, neither because of the situation in "Serbia", nor because of the salary of the director "Serbia". I think it's below the level of this assembly that we're putting things down so low, that one serious state measure that the government is reluctant to bring, aware of all its conconsequences, we're putting it down to that level that we're posituring whether it's because of the salary of a director, and I absolutely don't know what the salary of the director of "Srbiagas" is, and I don't believe it's that big. Mr. Bajatovic is your fellow MP, you can comment on it. I am almost certain that this has nothing to do with this figure that the distinguished young colleague Bozovic brought out here, a team before we should remember that Mr. Bajatovic places most of his incomes aside for humanitarian purposes. What I'm saying is, regarding the supply of energy, there is a guarantee of JP "Srbigas", which will provide a certain credit line. The credit line provides for the return to Serbia's budget of a certain loan it had and to pay for a certain amount of gas delivered that filled the Banatski Dvor warehouse, no less.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11898	Time. The word has been issued by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, by amendment, as the amendment's promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government in resignation, as I understand it, the honored guests, it is very important that we speak precisely today in the context of the amendment debate on the proposal for a law on temporary regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent income from users of public funds on our amendment to Article 1 of this proposal. Our amendment reads that Article 1 of this bill should be deleted, Mr. Vulin, first of all. There is only one item in the position of Article 1 of this proposal, which we agree with, which is that the financial system in the Republic of Serbia should be preserved. Look, gentlemen, the way the government has proposed here is not a way based on respect for the fundamental principles of justice and justice, Mr. Vulin. You here pose as a politician who always advocates justice and justice, and what have you, gentlemen, anticipated by this bill? You predicted that the public sector's wages would be reduced linearly. On the eve of this debate, we suggested not to do it. A few months ago, we suggest that people who have been partyed into the public sector be registered. There could be 100,000 of them. For two and a half years you've been in power, you haven't done it, and now you're the one who's worth it, the one who's not worth it, and the one who's been brought in by the party should all suffer in the same way these measures that are foreseen by this bill. We believe that this is not fair, nor just, and that this does not require the MPs to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11900	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11901	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have come to this law regarding public sector employees. I'll be brief. Many of the discussions of the former regime's parties, regardless of which parliamentary groups, whether from NDS or DS, I began to like them very much and to see that in some parts they had progressed. First, they asked, when it comes to pensioners, that the government no longer pleads in percentages, but that it declares in nominal amounts, how many pensioners will be reduced pensions. I consider it a very positive advance, because many of them, while in power, on the calculator, were the button that marked the percentage, was the favorite.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11902	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11903	I just want to explain. Here, at budget level, we determine the savings that we predicted in the 2014 budget, the budget rebalance. We will also propose in the 2015 budget. The budget as an instrument can be brought down to individual appraisals of individual budget users, not below. No matter how logical it sounds, someone is asking for this law to identify the unemployed or the workers, the white, black, yellow, green, party, non-partisan, male, female, etc., that on this level, such a law, is not possible. Therefore, under this law, it is only possible to define the total amount. Specific laws will regulate salaries in the public sector, salaries in the state administration, special laws will be regulated how and how much we can reduce and rationalise the total number of employees and thus achieve the effects. The moment we achieve the effects of other methods, by measuring the performance of people, by rewarding the actual results of work, not according to work, but according to the results of work, when we do so, then we will be able to put a peaceful soul through all these laws, because we will save in another way, which will support efficiency, transparent state and law, effective use of public resources, both in the state and in public enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11904	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11905	You know, until two hours ago, the provision by which compensation from the budget increases to political parties in Serbia was the most critical, most attacked provision and something that represented the gazing of every principle, proof of the hypocrisy of the ruling majority, until a few hours ago, when the ruling majority announced that it would pass a law that abolished it. Now you hear opposition MPs in the hall, in front of journalists, who say – well, it's a public deception, they get money from the other side anyway. That's it. Whatever you do is simply not good, but the gentlemen of the political parties who once ruled this Serbia simply can't reconcile themselves with being in opposition and can't live with it and can't accept what you say about the party law, financing them, that it'll be worth another two hours after you get your wish to cut. This budget has saved on everything except social benefits. That's all he's saving on. Now, that's justice and justice. Everything else is reduced, even the wages of those who work and pensions, but to those who find it most difficult, they have not been reduced a single giving. If we're talking about justice and justice, it's justice and justice. It must be appreciated and respected. As for pension cuts and salaries, yes, more are affected by those who have more. It's not much more and it's not any sign of good life and great wealth, but those who have less, they're preserved, both in absolute and relative terms. When it comes to party employment, you know, I honestly find it hard to fire hundreds of thousands of members of the former regime's party that have been employed that way, because they have families, and all I care about is whether they work and how well they do or don't work, not their party book. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11906	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11907	This amendment is deleted, of course, as is any other meaningless amendment and should be rejected, but not just because of that. The explanation was to call for justice and justice, so reform. Now that's what the minister said. This is first of all, I don't think it's said to me so far in the debate, but this set of laws is one part of what we started to do when this government was formed, this is already the fourth or fifth set of laws that is the reform set of laws. Reforms often bring unpopular measures, often bring painful measures, such as those we are talking about today. Whether they are just or not, they are necessary because of the future of Serbia and our people. I didn't react today, but I'm going to say it in a single sentence right now. So we'll vote tonight. Someone today also said from opposition lines that he did not want to attend the shameful votes. This today and tonight will be a vote for Serbia's future. And the only embarrassing vote I attended was a vote for some part of the agenda, in the evening as well, when it was voted from Bodrum, MP Neda Arneric or as it was called at the time, she voted from Bodrum at a time when someone was also Prime Minister. And that's how it was done, which was later in court proceedings and proven. It's the only embarrassing vote I've attended in 15 years in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11908	The word is Mr Milos Trosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11909	The Honorable Presidency, honourable ministers, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this amendment provides for the removal of Article 1 as a whole, and as Article 1 defines the essence of the law, it is essential that this amendment be rejected at all. He really needs to be thrown away. Still, let's get closer to explaining. It seems that the applicants of this amendment did not literally read Article 1 which clearly states that this law is aimed at preserving the financial system of the Republic of Serbia and the system of wages and profit in the public sector. Someone wants to wipe it off. I repeat and underline, the law is passed in order to preserve the financial system of the Republic of Serbia and the system of pay and income in the public sector. The government wants to build its foundations on it. We would like to preserve the financial system, and those who have submitted this amendment obviously do not want to. The subject of this amendment spoke to us at the Committee on Finance on Ethics and Responsibility, and I would remind the amendmentr to apply the ethics of responsibility to himself first, by voting on the day of the vote and voting for his amendment. There are only two options why you don't come to the vote of your own amendment, which are -- either he's scared of what he said or he doesn't believe in his own words and he doesn't believe it's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11910	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11911	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, let me say immediately that I cannot accept this amendment that reads: delete. Article 1 shall be deleted which determines the basis for public sector wages. So that our viewers are not mistaken, the lowest incomes are not reduced, wages in the real sector are not reduced, wages in the public sector are reduced. In the public sector, wages are 20% higher than in real terms. It means something like this. Those who earn money and real goods have a 20% lower salary than those who have been taking what they thought they could spend, not as much as those who work, produce goods and earn, could earn. So, the state didn't spread out against the lepers, it spent far more than it earned. The state of Serbia spent six billion more than it earned. She could easily spend four billion more, those were diaspora revenues. That's what our aunts and aunts from abroad sent us. However, they did so little, so they spent another two, two and a half billion, and therefore the public sector spent far more than the state's revenues. Simply put, expenditure was higher than income, and this was compensated by borrowing the country, increasing the sector that was not real. The public sector increased, while real jobs were lost on the revenue side. At the expense of the economy, they hired people most likely on the party line, and we'll see soon enough when we're forced to fire those surpluses from the public sector, only then will we see that we didn't have any extra workers in the administration, we already had extra workers. So they're party-classed into various offices. This member, to establish the basis, would not object if the opposition pointed out to protect selectively some people with some lower incomes, and that in this selectivity she wanted to burden those who had the highest incomes. I will list some examples of terribly large salaries that cannot be reduced now because they are established by law and as soon as you try to touch it, they claim we are touching the independent world of regulatory bodies and organs. I'll give you an example, let's say, the Anti-Corruption Agency. Imagine the Anti-Corruption Agency where you have eight people who have a salary greater than 190.000 dinars. It's this law that we're talking about that reduces the basics of how much these big salaries can be. In this Anti-Corruption Agency, behold, in seven days, 15 paid classes are progressing. So within a week, members of the Anti-Corruption Agency are progressing 15 paid classes. For normal civil servants, it takes 12 years to do so. Look at the miracles, somewhere where it takes 12 years to change 15 paid classes, at the Anti-Corruption Agency is possible in seven days. On that, they still make double and triple wages. I'll set an example and a Protector of the Citizens. There, six, seven people have a salary greater than 200,000 dinars, and the Citizens' Protector himself, who first protects his high earnings, has a salary greater than 350,000 dinars. With this law and him we finally have to touch. Look at the wonders, you need to pass a law on alarming. There's only 350,000 dinars. There are only 250,000 dinars in the other so-called. independent regulatory bodies and bodies. Look at the wonders, since some of the funds came in to make alarming laws, in the same agency there were five, six together with other agencies, and they agreed on this -- small profits, 350,000 dinars, let's try to increase it somehow, so the money that was intended to make that bill was allocated to them by five for a year and a half on a salary of 350,000 dinars and slightly lower than 300, 250,000 dinars a month getting another 600 pounds. Translated to the euro, that's 800 euros. Translated to dinars is about 96,000 dinars a month on a salary that was already 350,000 dinars. So they charged the bill and drafts of the alarm laws each of them for 10,800 euros, although they had one-off receipts from 200 to 350,000 dinars. This law should have hit these with the highest wage. Of course, those who installed all these people by the agencies don't want to talk about these big salaries, which we'll definitely hit with this bill. They will indicate that we have hit the salaries of the poor distressed people who have minimal incomes, and you are silent about these most likely party colleagues. When I tell my party colleagues, there's the judiciary, so you're sure, colleagues, you know that Mr. Dragan Gilas pulled the former justice minister from the Assembly, who was a MP here, and he hired the DS. She was a professional employee of the DS for a big salary, and then, behold, miracles, directly from the DS in the election campaign, they transferred her to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. It's a crime for me when you transfer someone from the political party to the D.A.'s office. I guess that prosecution, especially for war crimes, should be more independent and independent than any other judicial authority. These high wages, speaking of crime, were a real crime against the civilian population in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11912	The Social Democratic Party of Serbia has no more time. Vladimir Marinkovic should log out of the system to release the list for those who have it. You've got nothing. Your authority isn't here. So you can't waste his time. Check out. The Democratic Party, just authorized. (National MP Balša Bozovic, from the place: Replica. You don't have a replica. I took a stenogram. The minister didn't mention you. Take your stenogram, too. I don't mind. I've got a lot of reports. If he mentioned you in any context, and he fits Article 104, you'll get the word for it. We have time to determine. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11913	Dear President, before I suggest that this amendment be rejected, allow me to say two sentences. From this morning until now, Mr Pavicevic has broken our rules several times, or Rules of Procedure and so on. 107th and 108th. I've intervened several times. They wouldn't let me tell you what it was about. Several times this morning, he insulted the government of the Republic of Serbia, this Assembly and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because he called the government of the Republic of Serbia the government in resignation. I call on him publicly on behalf of the academic contrition to apologize to the government of the Republic of Serbia, to the MPs and to most citizens of Serbia. Let me now move on to an amendment that needs to be rejected. The law is one of the basic measures of starting fiscal consolidation, and in order to stabilise public finances whose instability this government has not contributed to, but to the government of the former regime. Secondly, the government's economic policy will focus on fiscal consolidation alongside other policies, primarily on the consolidation of budget funds. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, today would not have reduced public sector salaries if representatives of the previous regime had not deeply drawn their hands into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Let's just take one example. One former regime defence minister damaged Serbia's budget no less than 270 million dinars in purchasing a mobile radio-real connection system through "Yugochemia" on course differences, ending a quote, the state auditor's report, released "Evening News" on 18/07.2012, page 17. Another example, the same former regime defence minister, behold, paid for the upgrade of VMA software 850,000 euros. That's as much as four times as that computer program cost when it was bought. Look at the miracles, the million-dollar payment of software was declared military secret, and the job was completed without a public call by direct contract. This software, as far as I know, isn't in use today either. I'm telling the state auditor's records. If they had taken care of the budget in previous years, respected Serbian citizens, they would not have talked today about a reduction in wages. In the end, they destroyed our past. They destroyed the future of our children. They destroyed our present, and if they had stayed only a year in power, the respected citizens of Serbia would have destroyed our roots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11914	Just tell me the basics, since you've wasted your time, I can't help it. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: I have recognized myself as a former minister since 2007) No, there are 50% of former ministers here, and I am former minister, please don't. According to Article 104, I can't give you, you know how many former ministers there are here, circuit, republican. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: said the defence minister, there is only one. That's not true. Okay, don't yell at me. I'm not that scary. Don't yell, it really doesn't make sense. Here you are, Ambassador Sutanovac, if you've recognised yourself to be the only minister in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11915	Madam President, I'm sorry you're holding a session this way, not respecting a minority with only 6%, but it's obviously causing so many problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11916	I respect the will of the citizens. Please don't distort the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11917	You don't respect the will of citizens even to those who are minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11918	Here you go. Really, it turns out the opposition needs to get more time than she's got votes out of the will of the citizens. So it wouldn't be like that, please, I'm erasing you for 30 seconds, going back to zero.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11919	Thank you. The opposition just needs to get as much time as it is enough to tell the truth. Mr. Atlagic, who is otherwise known in the 1990s as a very wartime man compared to the events of those years...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11920	It's an insult, what you're saying now. You're either going to replicate or you're going to be offended.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11921	Okay, I'll get a transcript. He gave a report from an auditor who's right and I don't mind. It was simply the fact that in 2007, in the midst of the exchange rate differences of about 200 million dinars, it was a problem, and it burdened the budget, but these are exchange rates. But what we heard today from the governor lady, which is that this year we lost 4 billion and 400 million dinars in exchange for exchange rates.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11922	Your Honour, you asked for a replica to present Ambassador Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11923	Of course, I explain how curative differences can affect the budget. So 400m euros lost our NBS last year because of the exchange rate differences. If that hadn't happened, we wouldn't be cutting pensions and salaries for your colleagues today, Mr. Atlagic. Otherwise, since it is very often used here to tell some lies, Mr. Babic speaks them very often...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11924	Thank you. You can't replicate everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11925	You gave 30 seconds to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11926	But you abuse them, you go in the O.R. and replicate them all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11927	Let only hear one thing, and it concerns "Luke Belgrade".
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11928	Thank you very much, indeed. Marko Atlagic did not mention "Luca Belgrade". I shut you down, you can't hear yourself in the transmission. You'll be the chairman one day, I won't mind. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic, a replica. It was an insult, be correct to your colleague. He insulted his colleague, and we have to respect that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11929	Thank you, Madam President. How about this? The data I'm providing, you know very well, and the gentleman who spoke before me, that I never take data from the street, but from the state authorities. This is that I'm a war bully, yes, sir, and now you've confirmed, I'm proud to have defended my country. I'll do it tomorrow. While I was defending her, others were locators at the time. I was defending her the way I defended her, and you were supposed to be defending her. I'd be glad you showed up those years to defend the state of Serbia in The Hague. While I was defending her there, some were robbing Serbian citizens and if they hadn't robbed her, they wouldn't be talking here today about the pay cut. You can tell me I'm not a professor, you can tell me I'm not a man, but you'll never forbid me to defend my country. It's my biggest insult. If you have any honors, apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11930	The word is Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 107 who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. I think you had to warn Mr. Sutanovac that the insult of other MPs was strictly forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. We could hear that Mr. Marko Atlagic was plowing at war, a man who felt all the horrors of the Tudjman regime among the first in Croatia. You're letting a university professor who gave facts about what the defence minister was doing from 2007 to 2000 and who was here in 2012, cheered and dressed in Serbia's military and brought 100 Gasics from now on to get them out. What I also can't understand, whenever there's a mention of stealing in the military, of curvature, of machining in public procurement, Mr. Sutanovac gets up nervously, he starts waving at the Rules of Procedure and is always recognized when someone says: crime, corruption, abuse, machination, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11932	I really didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, I even defended the MP. I'm obliged to respond to the Rules of Procedure. So, I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, I warned the MP Sutanovec after that word, and I even gave my first word to Ambassador Atlagic out of correctness, that he could answer, because it was really rude. I expect you to state if we vote? No, I don't. There is no such thing as a replicator on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. It's usually the Rules of Procedure at this time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11933	Dear President, the Assembly must function even when you are not in the O.R., if you agree, as the session takes place. I'm advertising Article 104 because Mr. Antic mentioned me by name and last name in the discussion. I was looking for a replica, and you said I wasn't there.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11934	I didn't say that, I said I'd see what's in the stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11935	When do I get a word then, tomorrow?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11936	So tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, anyway, when the truth is determined. It is said – a respected young colleague. The second one in the stenogram I can't find, you'll deny me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11937	Just a second to explain, Article 104. - the offended minister expressed himself when it comes to me or some other MP who has sought the right to reply. He did not get the right to reply, and I can only conclude that you do not give me the right to reply because today I was saying that the government is reducing wages and pensions to the detriment of Serbian citizens. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11938	I don't understand right now, these are your assumptions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11939	Do I have the right to a replica if I'm mentioned by name and last name?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11940	You are not mentioned by name or name, but by a young colleague or a respected young colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11941	No, you're telling Bozovic the truth, so he listed ten things I didn't say. I just wanted to explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11942	You've been kind to the minister, I can tell. Just so we don't make a respectable parliament market right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11943	I have 20 seconds to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11944	You have explained and abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You've wasted your time. I understand that this is now a battle to win another few seconds of time, all of it is normal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11945	We're just looking for equal treatment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11946	The same treatment when you get the same number of votes as the parliamentary groups that are slightly bigger than yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11947	Does that mean they have more rights because they have more votes?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11948	Of course they do, read the Rules of Procedure you wrote.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11949	So they're entitled to a replica, and I don't?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11950	Now you'll get a warning if you keep yelling.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11951	Now you won't even let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11952	You can't finish, you're done, you're out of time. I'm shutting you down. You want to make an incident, and that's why I won't punish you, just because the intention is transparent. I thank and move on to the next amendment, to do something today, because it is a clear intention to stop discussing and to work on laws. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Article 1 of the amendment is based on Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Proposer President Dr Dusan Vujovic, finance minister, accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and the joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandar Jerkov together submitted the same text. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11953	So, let's remind ourselves, as we know, this is a law that the assembly majority, on a proposal from the government, wants to limit linear wages in one part of the public sector, with the excuse that this is necessary for saving. Of course, saving is necessary and there's no doubt about it. Of course, too much public spending in all the users listed in Article 2, but of course this is the worst way to solve this problem. I understand the minister who has since almost been the finance minister and has fallen into his hands to solve something he didn't create on his own, so he needs some quick measures that will take effect, but I think it's clear to him and all of us that there is nothing of it, because the problem has arisen in a long-term re-employment in the public sector from various authorities, especially from half to today, until yesterday afternoon. That is what Minister Krstic, who was the predecessor of Mr Vujovic, gave us, exactly how many people have been employed in these two years, and that is 40,000 people. It could happen that someone is trying to take it out of the memory of the Internet somewhere, but it's a little harder work. That and these phantom firms, it can hardly be removed easily. What the Ministry and Minister Vujovic deserve as a commendation is an explanation for which our amendment is rejected. First of all, because of the exhaustion and above all because of all those measures are listed here, or at least a good part of these measures that should have been withdrawn as first measures, and not reached for one bizarre decision, which is that all those who are doing something in this country, or who are employed, are being punished by 10% of the public sector salary. Since we have more amendments, I'm going to use our explanation to continue with the new amendment when the debate begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11954	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11955	Madam President, Mr. Minister, the distinguished guests whose salary will be reduced by this law, I would like to say that the DS does not want to support such a bill. Simply, we think it is not fair and correct that those who work in the public sector, especially those who work hard jobs and have higher education are sanctioned, while at the same time individuals who work in public enterprises or agencies get more salaries than they have today. This law is a law of law. In fact, this law is an expression of the inability, inability and ignorance of the government to find a way to collect income in the way the laws are prescribed, it already wants, in one way, to say the unfair way towards employees to deny their income. What is mentioned here, and even today several times, I could ask you, Mr. Minister, and of course this amendment, which we suggest is practically done by this law, which is - did you really charge a tax from Luke Belgrade, if we know that Luka Belgrade is in bankruptcy and that there are trusts, and how is it possible that only the Republic has charged, or did Honorable counterpart Babic disabling the public these days and disabling us MPs here saying that the government has charged? The information we receive from Luke Belgrade is that the government has reported its claims to Luka Belgrade or Lucy Belgrade without charging anything. Since this is the truth that I'm telling you, everything else we've heard these days by colleagues sitting across the street is being questioned whether it's true, including those famous 27 secretaries at the Krusik company, in which 300 people have been fired, where everything is failing, and because of that, you have no income, and they make you cut your wages to people who sit there next to you. Not everyone, though, but I don't want to mention it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11956	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11957	Madam President, gentlemen of the Ministers, all of what I was saying today, is the data presented by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic a few days ago, and then the promoters of this amendment probably had diarrhea so they weren't in the O.R. because they weren't allowed to oppose it and say it was false, but I'll read it one more time. The Belgrade port on 30 September 2014 owes 954,000,423 dinars. The taxpayer has submitted to the competent court an advanced reorganisation plan. A total of 170,253,019 dinars were charged between 01.01 and 23.10.2014. Do you know how much was charged between 2008 and 2012? In four years, it has been charged four times less than the amount charged for ten months this year, but it is a good thing that the applicant of the amendment does not care about one tycoon, but rather about a series of tycoons. It's better to pay the tycoons than to pay the state's obligations. In every orderly country, of course, you pay the government's obligations first. On the other hand, one and those who have contributed to the country's deficit and debt growing in the upward line as if we were going to the Himalayas, says that this government is incompetent because it stopped, first that. Secondly, because the measures applied in both Estonia and Latvia and Romania, both in Slovenia and in Italy and in Greece and Bulgaria, wherever the trend is stopped, and in Portugal, I thank my colleague Giric, everywhere where the trend of debt growth has stopped and returned to some normal borders, and we also apply the measures in the Republic of Serbia. Those who brought us to the Himalayas by debt are now represented as great experts and those who care for the citizens of this country, and with their destructive policy, they have literally led them to destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11958	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11959	First of all, I don't know if I should suggest, Madam President, when my colleague Babic says someone has diarrhoea in the assembly, I think you should react.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11960	I didn't hear, I'm sorry. I'll react now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11961	Really, if someone reminded me of diarrhea, and I would never say that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11962	I didn't react, but I'll react now. Please don't use words like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11963	What's a fact, is that debt and deficits are growing and that this government, Mr. Minister, I am speaking to you, please, with an increase in taxes...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11964	You asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, now you're doing a little replicating the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11965	You gave me a line, I didn't mention a single member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11966	No, no, you picked up, you said a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're cheating. You know, you're cheating.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11967	Is the breach of the Rules of Procedure, or is it the replica of a minister who hasn't replicated you? If I can get back to the beginning. So, I said, "I answer in the replica, "and you want me to draw attention to the fact that you should have warned him about diarrhoea.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11968	But you didn't get the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11969	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11970	You didn't get the replica, because you didn't even look for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11971	How could I not ask?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11972	Here, here, I mean you used it, but you're cheating. You're cheating on me. You're cheating on me. You're cheating on me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11973	No, I don't. No, no, no.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11974	Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't,
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11975	So whatever I got the word lasts for two minutes, you took away my minute. So, I'm not gonna...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11976	I had nothing to do with it. I hurt my Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11977	So I don't want to insult anyone here. For me none of you are the product of diarrhea, I just want to speak to the minister to tell you what the problem is. So the problem is...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11978	Let's go look for a replica again. Nor can I time, replica, to whom, right? Don't throw Zivkovic away. What exactly replica to know? Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Mr. Babic! All right, that's because of those words that you're opposed to, he came to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11979	The fact is that what only grows in these two years, these narod and bad governments, is debt and deficits. Growth and taxes. All taxes have been increased, whether so, Mr. Minister, and VAT and profit tax, at the same time with 15.7 billion euros in debt from 2012, we have reached more than 22 billion in debt, seven billion in debt. So, basically, the government annulled by the first law of physics that matter is indestructible. So seven billion leaked somewhere through the country's party leadership over the last two years. The deficit, and with the biggest tax hikes, is increasing. For what? Obviously, there are problems in the imbalances of securing budgeting and what has been growing. We are today solving in a way that we are shutting down the fire with gasoline, which we believe is not appropriate and I think it would be much more appropriate to talk about why the budget is not filling up adequately, or why, despite the increase in VAT, excise tax, profit tax and all other taxes, it's much less chargeable, and that's because it's obviously worth going to the gray zone, which the state is unable to pay taxes to those who need to and come into a situation where people sitting here today in front of you all day and these days, I'm free to say, in a way, I apologize, masochistically, waiting to be decided in this parliament, to receive a lower salary from next month. We don't support it. We don't even support it to cut pensions, because in just one year, the loss of the NBS of 44 billion dinars, which is 400m euros, would be enough for these people, along with the pensioners, to have the full salary that follows them. One more thing, it is unfortunate that in the 21st century we boast that as many as 61% of pensioners have as much as 200 euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11980	First of all, your time is long gone. Now you're gonna listen to me. What are you counting on?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11981	So 2.10...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11982	First of all, you haven't replicated Zorana Babic, so abuse of replicas. You spoke to the Minister, and therefore, both basics, two minutes less than the time you have left, and you have the power to do so, it's according to the Rules of Procedure. So, you abused, you argued, I gave you a call again, you never spoke to Zoran Babic again, just the minister to replace the time you spent today on the first two amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11983	Do you really feel like I've been arguing with anyone?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11984	Like this, I'm shutting you down and two minutes less than authorized. I'm sorry. It's full of leaves. He hasn't replicated you now, he's a minister. The minister answered the same thing. He said he's replicating you? Zoran Babic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: You know what, if you give him the replica now, then give me back two minutes, you took me two minutes.) Here you are now witnessing how MPs behave. Citizens of Serbia, look at what it looks like, someone who calls for respect for the Rules of Procedure to rise up, yell, threaten, president. I really feel threatened in this room. If someone gets up and threatens the president - now, if this, if that... I don't want to warn him, 'cause he wants to do it all afternoon. I don't want to punish anyone because I don't want to fall into a trap. There's an incident to be made, so there's nothing to declare afterwards. I don't want to punish anyone. Can I take a break so the MP can sit down and calm down, because I can't give a word to any speaker, while the other speaker talks, yells, threatens the chairman, it's just impossible to work. Can you re-apply, somehow get all that back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11985	There's no reason to be nervous, if this government is what it is, that someone would be so nervous, because they know that what he once was will never be again. I will continue to insist on this chart and on these Himalayas and that those who only in a year managed to borrow this country and raise their debt to GDP from 48.2% to 60%. I know that at this point, it is 66.8% and is up 6.8%, but it has been increased due to the company in restructuring, which has been introduced by the applicant of the amendment to restructure both on the burden and on the coat of arms of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and on those 27 secretaries and on those cars, and by the company in the blockade and by the rescue of the Vojvodine Development Bank and the Business Bank of Belgrade and Agrobanka, due to the activated guarantees, which are 25 times increased. I'm sorry, maybe it's someone in this country who hears this data and when he lives and one of those 400,000 people who's been out of work since 2008-2012, it might be someone in Serbia to diarrhoea, but someone in this room is safe from occupation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11986	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go, Minister. I'm really trying to run the session, not the MPs. Here you go, Minister. You've been waiting a long time for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11987	So I have two minutes again, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11988	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11989	If you're going to use your time to discuss 150 questions every time, then I don't have a chance to answer them. We'll send you a new fiscal strategy that will explain everything. I repeat, from 2005 to the day, the cost and all expenditure of the budget, including expenditure on salaries, pensions, interest, on all other elements, with the exclusion of costs, the operating costs that have been reduced have been growing unsustainable and baseless. So 169 billion are increased pensions, extraordinary, no grounds. This is why both the stagnant revenues and the falling revenues in some periods resulting from the increase in financial and fiscal indiscipline are in a situation where the budget deficit has grown to unsuspecting proportions. Why did the debt come? As you know in the textbooks and in Serbia's practice, the debt takes place a year, two, three after the problems that have been financed, and after that they have turned into debt. Debt rose from below 30% to over 65% due to one-side deficit financing and a very large part due to the activation of public sector guarantees that could not fulfil their obligations. Everything we said today about “Serbiagas, ” that is what it refers to. It's not possible in two minutes to explain all this. I'm not a politician. It's not my place to define here the responsibility of political parties, but it's mine to define responsibility in certain time periods and events that are seen in data and everything else. Therefore, the fiscal strategy will dedicate a special chapter to explain the geneses of our current problems and the necessity to look back at them and find solutions in each of the spheres where problems have arisen. The problems of expenditure will be solved in a pillar called expenditures, income problems in a pillar called income, problems of past in a pillar called company restructuring in a state, or all former from social to reception, to state enterprises, and problems of public enterprises in a fourth pillar called public enterprises. In each of them we have a complex demanding program that requires everything, from a legal basis to a change in governance, to a change in personnel and everything else. I don't think any of these problems can be solved overnight, I don't think income problems can be solved without a deep reform of the tax administration, but we have to do all that together. We can't talk about all this today, when we only talk about the law, about the temporary wage reduction that is necessary, because the level of salary that is in the budget today is unsustainable, just like the level of pensions is unsustainable. Pensions, as I said, are funded from the budget by 251 billion differences between contributions to the Pension Insurance Fund and the cost.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11990	Thank you, Minister. Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic together. The Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to the view that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The promoter's not here. Does anyone want a word by amendment to Article 2? Dragan Sutanovac according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11991	I just want to ask you one thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11992	Let me educate you first. You have to tell me, Your Honor, and then you can move on to your speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11993	So, Article 107. You just told me that I wasn't talking to a colleague who caused a replica, that I was speaking to a minister, and then you gave a word based on...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11994	By amendment. We're wasting time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11995	Then you took my time, and you gave your colleagues your word based on my address in which I did not address him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11996	You weren't paying attention. I gave him the amendment, so he said longer, that we only understood each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11997	We can take a look at the stenographic notes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11998	You'll see in the record, it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u11999	I'm asking you to give us back the two minutes you took. It's not much for you, it means a lot to us...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12000	But your authority isn't here anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12001	What? There's a deputy authorized. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12002	He's not answering, he's passive. You have six minutes. I have to stay on my word. She can't take – she can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12003	I'm fighting in two minutes for those Serbian citizens who voted for us. Two minutes. Not now, but two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12004	Marko Djurisic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12005	We have proposed in this law in several places that the term that exists "local authorities", be replaced by the essential words "local self-government" and "autonomial province". The essence of the government's rejection of the amendment is that the term used in the law is in accordance with the law, the budgetary system and there was no need for this intervention. We agree with that. We admit the mistake, it's because we've had less than two days to write these amendments, and this government has been making budget rebalances and preparing these laws for six months. I accept that in less than two days we made this mistake, but we made this mistake, among other things, by starting with the Law on the reduction of the net income of the public sector person who will be abolished when and if this law is passed. In that law, it's defined as we suggested. Thus, it is not said that the term “local government” is not used, but is used by the term “local self - administration” and “autonomous province. ” It may be a little excuse for us who made a mistake and maybe we didn't see that this proposal was in line with the Budgetary System Act, but there was little time, and in so little time, some mistake could be stolen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12006	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government in the resignation as I understood here, the honored guests, it is very important that we continue to discuss precisely the amendments we have submitted to this bill. Zoran Zivkovic and I also submitted an amendment to Article 3. The proposal for a law on temporary regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries In this Article 3, paragraph 1 defines what is being reduced to citizens and citizens of Serbia, and that is the salary. Then they say, "What's the pay?" Now there are two things I would like to quote as some kind of additional argument – why? I think this amendment should be accepted. First, we claimed here that there were better ways to make savings. When Minister Vulina, for example, we say -- there were better ways, you didn't consult with us, Minister Vulin then starts talking about some other law here, for example about the Law on the financing of political activities. Gentlemen, this is now about another law, and not about this law, which is referred to here, for example, by Minister Vulin, or by the Honorable President of the National Assembly, when I try to get the attention of the MPs, here now, I focus on the amendment to Article 3, then the MP of the Progressive Party comes forward and says – Mr Pavicevic wants the ethics of responsibility. Of course, respected gentlemen and for this amendment because ethic of responsibility means that politics must be measured by results, and I am here asking ministers who are present, why it has not been measured in the last two and a half years that all parties have been brought in, that these people are left without a job they didn't deserve, and then not to spare on doctors, teachers, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12008	Thank you. The word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12009	I thank the chairman. Therefore, the DS has proposed that this Article 3 be deleted for a simple reason that we do not support a reduction in wages in the public sector. The Democratic Party is asking the question that for the first time, Mr. Minister, after the wars of the 1990s, that the NBS cannot pay any revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget, not a single dinar, the NBS, after several years, not to say a decade of positive business, ended last year with a minus in the case of 44.3 billion dinars. So, minus 44.3 billion dinars, that showed the Central Bank's success balance for 2013. So, Mr. Minister, such a minus was made primarily because of the exchange rates of 25.7 billion dinars, then the loss of interest of 3.8 billion, on the salaries of the employees of 4.8 billion. I will remind you only, when we were already talking about these bad times when the DS was in power, in 2012, the profit was achieved by 58 billion dinars, directly paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget. If this was done today, we wouldn't have to cut pensions or salaries. So this is the result where the government now rewards Jorgenka Tabakovic with a higher salary mass than it has ever had, because she has made a minus of 44.3 billion dinars. And after this, you cut pensions and salaries for Serbian citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12010	Thank you. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. ) Right to replica, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Bank has never paid 58 billion dinars to the Republic of Serbia's budget. The most embarrassing thing he is is when an MP knows he's not telling the truth. If he'd come to the Finance Committee, when we discussed the final budget account and the National Bank's final financial report, he'd know exactly what it was. Another thing, do not boast of some of the things, for our people say: "What is wise, someone else boasts?" So, the profit shown by 2012 from the National Bank of Serbia is that it jumped the euro. You should know that the structure of the foreign reserve is based on bank reserves, foreign reserves in various currencies, to be based on gold reserves and securities of value, and you should know that the crisis in the EU has raised the price of gold. You think that's funny? Well, it's not like everything you've done to me or what kind of marifetteluks you've done to me. Is that funny to you now? Now you're showing it because now you have for the first time in 2013 that the National Bank bought euro from the market to protect the course of the dinar, you're showing it as a loss, even though these euros are in the National Bank vault. Well, really, how are you not ashamed?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12012	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12013	Thank you, President. So my predecessor didn't realize what I was saying until the end, but well, that doesn't surprise me with him. So 44.3 billion is a loss. Officially, in 2012, a profit of 58 billion was made. So, the National Bank of Serbia is not the only problem, but it is a big one, because it has made such a loss that is greater than saving from reducing pensions. I'm undermining, he's not the only loser right now. I'll just remind you that this budget rebalance is, for example, An additional two billion dinars for GSP provided in Belgrade. Do you know why? Because the SNS ran a two-year non-payment campaign "Bus Plus" transport tickets and there is now no different way for this thing to be corrected than to give the city of Belgrade an additional two billion to fix the hole. We advocate the functioning of the system in this country and the functioning of the GSP, but responsibility is borne by those who have called for such a thing not to work. One more thing, Jorgenka Tabakovic is today a person who will not have a lower salary, but will have a much higher salary. Unlike the citizens of Serbia and pensioners, who will reduce both pensions and salaries, the National Bank of Serbia has little to say about this poor business moment will have... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12014	Time. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. Please let me run the session. (Veloljub Arsic, from the town: The party is mentioned. Alexander Jovicic insists on looking for a word. He explained his position now and answered you. Aleksandar Jovicic will certainly state his position on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12015	Thank you, Chairman. As far as the amendments are concerned, it is truly absurd that the applicant of the amendment or the previous speaker is talking about the budget rebalancing and the two billion allocated to the GSP. In fact, during the former regime, there was a phenomenon when we talk about running public enterprises, which is that most of the companies that have a monopoly, such as City Cleanness, GSP, even Parking Service, which I really don't know if anyone can figure out how it is possible for such companies to be at a disadvantage, even though they have a monopoly and have no competition on the market when we talk about these activities. As for the GSP, one party, led by Belgrade for more than five years, left the GSP in debt of five billion dinars. In late 2007 and early 2008 the company had surpluses, and after five years, thanks to Bus Plus, thanks to many projects introduced by the party for the sake of personal interest, the company has five billion dinars of debt. On the other hand, you gave 65m euros for foreign busses, I apologize, about the amendment, I will explain, destroying Serbia's economy. Chairman, just remember those trams we see on the streets of Belgrade that one door costs 30,000 euros, that one windscreen costs 13,000 euros, that one wheel when it's fucked up costs over two and a half thousand euros. Is it possible for a Serbian worker, a Serbian citizen, to support it? He can't. One party acted as if we were a rich country, but unfortunately, with poor people. Today, after all, you are calling for a reduction in wages and pensions, and just before I said that some people, here, on this list, had two and a half thousand euros a day. It is a shame for Serbia and for the period from 2008 to 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12016	Thank you. By amendment, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so here's how long we've been led by the policy of the amendment applicants, but that's because they probably don't know that if you had in the exchange reserves of the euro you bought 80 dinars and later sold 100 dinars or 110 or 120, you're winning. And that’s what I said and thought about when I said that folk proverb: “What is he ashamed of?... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” For some, it is also a loss if someone else's euro sold 120, returned to foreign exchange reserves of 114 or 115. That's a loss for you? It's that folk again. Obviously, we don't understand what the transfer funds are between cities and municipalities, we don't know, and we pretend to know here, the applicants of the amendments, what the original incomes of local self-government, what they're entrusted with, what they're taxed to, and what they'd know, and then we'd know the answer to the question of where two billion GSPs came from, but the problem is that they're talking about something that they don't even know what they're talking about, they're just full of losing someone, and they're forgetting that they've been winning for years and, here, here today, here, four and a half billion euros of foreign reserves that they've sold. That's your win? How can you not be ashamed?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12018	Ambassador, please be careful how you address your colleagues. (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: I ask the question. () Everyone has the right to express their position liked or not liked, depends on which side. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12019	We have two things. One thing is distraction and the other is real questions. Do you know how I know these questions are right? Look at the minister, he doesn't want to get involved in the debate. Minister, here, I urge you once again to answer the question my colleague Bozovic has now asked regarding the loss of the 44 billion dinar NBS. If that's true, would you reduce wages and pensions if that loss wasn't a loss but a gain, how was it before and that it was paid into the budget? That's the first question, so not 150 questions. That's the first one. We have two and we concentrate on those two questions. The second question - is it true that reducing wages and pensions will lead to new layoffs, especially in the manufacturing sector? You don't need to know many economic doctrines. To prove that, you need a healthy logic. When you cut wages and pensions, people won't save on bills, bills have to be paid. Where will it save? On consumption, at the market, at the store, at the market. When you buy less, manufacturers will supply market, market, store. That means less production. When you produce less, or you will cut the salaries of people who work in production, and you will certainly make a surplus, or you will fire people who work today in production, in the real sector. These are the questions we expect to answer here. So, once again, can you deny the claim that a reduction in wages and pensions will lead to new layoffs, especially in production? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12020	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12021	Like I said, in two minutes, I can't teach you economic theory, or economic policy practice, or whatever it takes... Let me tell you something, you've been trying for 10 years to deal with demand side economics and it's not working out in Serbia, I have to tell you. Please, let me tell you something. Listen to me now, since you've been provoking for hours. Demand side economics in a country that has no economy, which is settled, which has structural problems, as a man with a leg in a cast cannot go, such an economy with a broken industry, enterprises in restructuring, public enterprises that are ahead of collapse, cannot respond to demand. That's what I'm saying. Empirical and theoretical. Please listen to me. After that, we'll explain it all to you in the fiscal strategy, since you keep repeating the same things, I have to answer you like this. If that wasn't clear to you from the program we listed, I'm telling you right now. That's what my colleagues tried, my assistants, my predecessors, and it doesn't work. It cannot be an economy that, when you increase such demand, it increases imports. We are now reducing trade deficits for the first time, reducing current balance deficits. So this is an economy that has its specificities, our problems, and we're trying to tell you in a nice way that we're going to take all of this into account in a program that has four pillars, not one pillar. This economy can't get away with it. When we did it on the basis of grenades in the 2000, 2001, 2007, 2008 and 2009, etc., we made deeper and deeper deficits. You have analysis in my work, in all possible works, and everyone proves from our academic analysts to our funds and everyone else that this side, this country can't get through demand. Secondly, in the light of the recession of facts, we have also minimised the reduction due to the social and political and recession effects, i.e. completely abolished the reduction of the lowest wages, which have the greatest effect on domestic demand. Since we're not cutting salaries and pensions to 25,000, these are the people who spend 100% of their income on the components of domestic demand, then the recession effects will be minimal. As we reduce the most high wages and high pensions, there will be a positive effect on import reductions that will be maximum. We took care of it, and we'll work it out and show it. I note, this is just the first step. Without this first step, we will not have a credible reform programme, and all other steps, cleaning up company problems in restructuring, cleaning up public enterprises and the revenue side are an integral part of the strategy. We claim that she will succeed, and you may doubt.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12022	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: I answered the word. You have no right to speak. (Dear Sutanovac, from the city: I am the amendment promoter. Never mind. You've been used for two minutes. Balsa Bozovic took the time. I'll give you a collection of regulations, with a dedication. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, as authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12023	I can also be a bearer, since I'm a bearer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12024	Okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12025	If I step over a little bit, count the time of power. All of our amendments to this law came from the idea of choosing for us less than two evils, an evil that was called a law that introduced a solid tax and this law that is being discussed today. The solutions we have proposed through the amendments are the solutions prescribed by the Solidarity Tax Act. That's why it's just an amazing explanation for how these amendments are being rejected. I'd like you to pay attention to that. We've been saying here that they should also tax themselves with this law, as it says in the Solidarity Tax Act, and compensation for a contract on work and temporary part-time jobs and a contract on supplementary work and a contract on copyright work and other compensation for work outside of work relations. It's all written, copied from Article 2. The law on reducing the net income of a person. Then the government, in its explanation, says that the cuts in the contract on the part are two-sided cargo acts and cannot be changed by law. How could they have changed so far by the Solidarity Tax Act? You could have said - we don't accept your concept and we think it's more cellular, because it's the favorite word that comes from the government, that it's something more cellular, and then we could talk about whether it's more consistent with our solution or yours. But you say in one previous amendment – there is no term for net earnings in any law. It's in the explanation. Here's the Solidarity Tax Act here that defines the term of net earnings. So someone can't read the laws in Serbia. I'm willing to argue with whether this is our solution to your better or not, but in any case, don't reject the arguments that some solutions don't exist in Serbia's legal system or that something can't because it's contrary to any other law, and that exists in the Solidarity Tax Act that is in force today and will apply until this law is passed, I suppose today and stop doing so. Please pay attention to the reasons on which you reject the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12026	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Just one notice to the MPs, we're no longer in direct transmission for opening the Book Fair. That's how RTS informed us. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12027	I wish the minister could hear me talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12028	He hears the second minister, and all are authorized representatives. You're running out of time. If you want, we can shut up for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12029	Madam President, my time is just coming. In the hope that I don't disturb a minister who should listen to what the MP who received his word, under amendment to Article 4 of the Law, I wanted to thank the minister for giving one good information about what the government is up to, but that part that proves to him that this is the first necessary measure of a completely wrong approach. Namely, people who work in the public administration who are being punished by reducing salaries of 10% and those who do well, and those who do responsible jobs, do not repeat themselves, look like demagogues and teachers and teachers, teachers and teachers, and doctors and other medical staff, besides them in public administration sitting people who are from the category of brought in. I agree in the last ten years, not just in the last two years, and that they don't deserve that 90% salary, that's not the solution to the problem we're in. I like the justified criticism of the minister who said that all his predecessors have recently led a catastrophic policy and that's true, but they're like...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12030	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12031	Someone who's a lifeguard who didn't. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12032	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12033	Well, this is one of the amendments that should practically make it impossible for the government in a bad way to cut salaries for people who work in public administration and public enterprises. Mr. Minister, you gave a little lecture earlier, it seemed rather nervous, but I'd like to ask you a few questions, nervously indeed, I believe that the "Kurir" has been hitting you a little with this shift that's being announced, but it's not our topic. So I'm interested in you telling us, Mr. Minister, that by any chance we have a promise that we'll have a three billion-euro chip factory or that we're actually producing parts for Boeing aircraft, or if we dug that channel up to Thessaloniki, would you be telling us here today about how you have a budget deficit, or would you come here to tell us that you have a surplus in your budget? If by any chance Jorvanka Tabakovic as governor led an adequate National Bank of Serbia and did not make a 400m-euro debt, I agree that this is not the profit that is being paid in full, but it is certainly positive, would you tell us the same story you're telling today? So, in the last two years, you've been saying it all the time for the last five years I've respected it, not saying it in 14 years as colleagues, you're not going to say it in the last two years because it would be directly contrary to your government colleagues, but the fact is that this government has changed for the third time in two years, that you were the fourth Minister of Business, the third Minister of Finance, everyone has some policy and no matter what you say you're a politician. I'm sorry, but you're sitting in a political position, not an analyst anymore, you're no longer an adviser, you're a man who runs public finances that decide and trade the perspective, not just the future of Serbia, but the citizens of Serbia. We believe that you needed the capacity of your position, the knowledge, we know that you have it, to insist that those promises made to the citizens of Serbia be fulfilled first, and then...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12034	The theme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12035	... would be much easier to get support for budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12036	The word is from Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12037	Thank you, Mr. President. Amendments to Article 4 have been submitted Article 4 provides for the invalidity of any provision and general and individual act which increases the base, coefficient or any other element whose change would result in an increase in salary and other permanent income for the users of the public funds referred to in Article 2. The law, which was passed during the application of this law. In order to reduce, it is necessary to eliminate the possibility that this reduction is self-adopted after the law has been applied. If we leave the possibility of income being increased by either general or individual acts, for example only after the day of the law's entry into force, what is the point of the law? The proposed law is one of the basic measures for starting fiscal consolidation. The government runs economic policy and continues fiscal consolidation, primarily budget consolidation, budget expenditure through wage cuts. In voting day, I won't accept and I won't vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12038	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12039	Just a moment to respond to Mr. Sutanovac. Emotions are needed to mark not only the content. Listening to you carefully and listening to the same questions four or five times, I had to answer it in order to make that clear. With your very serious question, I must answer as seriously as I do. If you look at what many countries have already been quoted, what the IMF has been doing, we're talking about structural deficits, structural problems. All you've listed are very beneficial things, but they're so-called. one-time things, one-time measures that can help as helped sell their time "Telenor", as can help sell Telecom, etc. But that still doesn't solve the structural problem between the so-called. the promises of political, legal and any other on the side of expenditure and the ability to permanently generate it on the side of income. So it would help, but we'd still be facing the same problem. If you have six companies that don't work, that's your problem. Only if you had some unlimited resources such as oil so that it permanently gives you a source of income to pay that 600, 700m euros a year, then you could put up with these companies, and then it would be a question of whether it's convenient to work. Is it directed to throw funds at these enterprises in restructuring? So I answer your question. It would be easier for us to have everything you've mentioned. I don't want to talk about these institutions because let's say the NBS is an independent institution and I ask you to invite Mrs Tabakovic to give you all these figures and estimates, etc. As for other sources, I think it would be easier if we had more money, as with two billion now we have money and now we're talking, but that wouldn't be the solution. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12040	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. ) The minister replied. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Replica, did not understand me.) He understands you. He gave you a great answer. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12041	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, who propose this amendment not only want, essentially, the proposings of this amendment protect the public sector employees to raise their salaries. Not to be taxed, but to raise their wages. It's already a pattern we met when DS introduced a profit tax, short-term from the year 2010. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: 2009. I was corrected by my colleague Sutanovac in 2009. Now again, these same people who are in public enterprises set up by the DS are trying to increase their salary by modifying an individual act. That's enough. As for independent bodies, such as the National Bank, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, someone here is uninformed. I thought they'd gone from this congregation forever. I see there's another party now that's also uninformed. The National Bank's report has been on the National Bank's website since June of this year. The Finance Committee, whose deputy president of your parliamentary club, discussed the National Bank's financial report for 2013. So you know the answers to all the questions. You're making some news out of something. You're throwing out parallel data and you don't want anyone to get into the essence of the structure of something that happened. Most importantly, the most important thing is that someone says "loss." Do you cover it from the budget? Do the citizens of Serbia cover it from the budget? No, I don't. But, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when ten dinars collect the euro over six months, we all pay it, as well as through loans and through the loss of living standards and economics through free funds that would invest in production and increase budget filling. So, with all the praise that the National Bank, while Jelasic and Soskovic were governors, recorded great results with the largest inflation in Europe, you boast of it. You boast that Governors Šoštic and Jelasic lost the value of the dinar by 50% and lived on Dedinj. That's the result for you. I can't understand that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's some kind of dancing for me. Some turning truth, some turning facts. Now you see how difficult it is when one company raises a loan in euro with 80 dinars the value of the euro and returns by 120. I'd like to see those SS magicians put this company on their feet without this kind of measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12042	Replica, Dragan Sutanovac. He called it by name and last name several times.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12043	Thank you. My predecessor said we knew the answers and he didn't make a mistake. We believe that this government and the previous two governments have been disastrously poor at leading economic policy, and unfortunately this poor economic policy-making has led to the fact that you ministers are sitting here today and blushing in front of all of us because you are not comfortable. You just said that we have something against solving public enterprises' problems. You didn't get us very well. We are fully committed to solving this problem. But, Mr. Minister, please one second, in a campaign you didn't participate in, we're told that some firm Al Dahra is going to invest four billion euros in our country, that if I'm not mistaken, it's called "Mubadala" to invest three billion euros in our country. Hundreds of billion euros will go to the canal. Mercedes buses will be sold worldwide, from Japan to Chile. That's what I'm interested in, not about what you think was real, because what we promised back then was not real, and imagine that it is, so that you have the "Mubadale" that invested four billion dollars of annual income in the name of, say, the VAT from selling something that they would produce or chips that would be the largest factory, as we understood the prime minister in the world. That's what I'm talking about. So, what I'm saying is that the citizens here are being cheated, and you're blushing because of these frauds here today. No one here argues that problems need to be solved in public enterprises. On the contrary, I think a good part of them is in a state where they won't be able to survive next year unless they get into serious problem solving, but not the way you suggest. On the other hand, consider one thing. If you're cutting people's wages, and you have the same number of employees...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12044	Time, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12045	... Cut them down and work week, let them work four days instead of five. That's fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12046	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. You gave up. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12047	Let me do it again. Our idea is to introduce another concept, a concept that is less evil. We are aware that this state must save, but we think that this proposed law that we are discussing today is worse than the Solidarity Tax Act, because it includes people who have fewer incomes than it was under the previous law, and on the other hand it releases those with the highest incomes. So those who had received over 13,000 dinars, someone calculated net incomes, will now receive more than they received under the Solidarity Tax Act. And then, by that logic, we suggested that this Article 4 be deleted, because it is too high. The government rejected it, because it is consistently stated that it is contrary to the concept proposed by the government and we have nothing to add. But we want to point out once again that we do not agree to apply the measures to only one part of the employees and employees, not all, as has been so far. We do not agree to reduce the basics, because by reducing the basics, the contributions paid to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund are also reduced. So this reduces the future pension of all those who work in the public administration and who will now be punished twice under this law. So, they're going to get less now, and at some point when they're doing their pension, less money will be included in this period. This solidarity tax at least taxed the net amount, so that amount paid to the Health and Pension Insurance Fund went there to the Fund, was recorded, and net earnings were taxed. If it has to be spared on employees' salaries, we believe that this model is fairer and that it is better that the Government either left this law on solid tax or that at least this solution we have proposed through the amendments has adopted and thus has made it possible for the fairer distribution of the burden that, we agree, we all have to endure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12048	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12049	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government's resignation, as far as I know, we have submitted the amendment to Article 5, and this may indeed be the central field of our amendment debate today. Here is the view of Article 5: ‘The basis for the calculation and payment of salaries by the beneficiaries of public funds laid down by law, other regulation or other general or individual act, which is applicable on the date of adoption of this law, shall be reduced by 10%. “ We are against it, dear ministers. We suggested that we think about it, and not just now, but also the previous days, weeks and months, about one fairer way to solve this problem. I am surprised that some MPs who notice in a moment send a technical error in an amendment, such as Mr Radenkovic, do not notice what it says in the attitude of Article 1 of this proposal, as I am surprised by the minister who, when we tell him – the ministers, why the previous months are not measured who was brought in party to lose his job, I am surprised when the minister here tells us – will be, wait, we will measure, we will measure. It all seems like an ethics of intent and announcement to me. Dear Mr. Vujovicu, ethic of responsibility is important in Serbia. Let's first measure what's been done so far, to see who's responsible for what hasn't been done in two years and a few months, and then you get some credibility to believe your word when you say it will be something. Now, when we see that something that's been announced has not been announced, we can't believe that something new is going to happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12050	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12051	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected counterpart Pavicevic, that the citizens would understand better, and this morning, when I reported on that amendment of yours regarding the budget, I also said what hit you at the time – that it does not say anything: it is deleted. For the sake of truth, what do we like to say, to hear the citizens of Serbia, your amendments, which I am, the right to tell you I don't wear glasses but I'll contact the eye doctor and I'll take a look, but let my colleagues help me, I see from the first to the last one - delete, delete, delete, Article 5 delete, delete and delete everything? Right? Well, now, Mr. Pavicevic, he can't. What Mr. Zivkovic was erasing, he was erasing. You are a new party, but the party's leader is someone Serbia's citizens do not forget, nor will they ever forget. Because, 500 thousand street workers, robbery privatisations, where even the anti-corruption institute states that the state was damaged by 100 million only in the privatisation of Beopetrola, where in 2003 we have a 20m-euro increase in consultants for these privatisations – so who did the money go to? For what? May I have your attention, please? They're trying to call their colleagues so they can have the right to a replica, but I won't give them that satisfaction. In your exposé, it says nicely that since your privatisation last year, when you submitted the exposures, that was March 18, 2003, the income was 355,000 euros, and only the income from Telecom was over 1.5 billion marks at the time. Do you know how many companies there are, over 500 companies were then privatized, not to mention how you did it under the grain. I'll get back to you later, because the time of the parliamentary group has yet to be explained and further explained the consequences that we are dealing with today and why we have come into this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12052	The word has a minister in the government, Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12053	Thank you. You see, you've been asking here all afternoon for conflicting things - to be fired and not to be fired. I don't understand at all where the need arises, as if there was some kind of hatred for people who are members of political parties, even political parties close to the promoters or party members of these amendments. Here, as the sole measure, is to be fired and requested an Inquisition to determine who has a party book. This government divides people and workers into those who do good and do bad, doesn't divide people by party membership cards, understand that already. Don't ask us to fire people just because they're members of some political party, we'll never do that and don't fire people so easily. All these years you've been doing it. We won't do it, we won't punish anyone for his political membership, and that's no charity measure. Serbia will not recover if you fire someone because he is a member of some of the former regime's parties. Here, now I turn out to be a lawyer of the former regime's party, but what you're going to do is people like everyone else do good or bad. That's how we decide, by nothing else. Don't hate people who were in the same party as you yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12054	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. Mr. Pavicevic and Mr. Zivkovic, who wants your replica? He can't do both. He can't do one. There's only one party that's mentioned. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12055	However, the party is mentioned, so am I and Mr Pavicevic, but the answer will be the same, of course. An exotic ignorance of modern Serbian history should define the performance that my colleague had before, but I don't think it's his sight or his forgetfulness, but that's his bad intention. I see here, here, and now this minister has mentioned hate. Where did you get the idea of anyone hating anyone here, especially Mr. Pavicevic and I hating anyone here? That's what needs to be earned. Some level of contempt yes, but hate absolutely does not. So, during the former regime, if this is measured when someone was, say, the prime minister of Serbia, which was by 2004, the beginning, no illegal, suspicious or any similar privatisation was performed, not even by Verica Barac, or by the EU, or by anyone, take a look at that. The comments on Beopetrol concern 2005. I repeat, there was nothing suspicious about this period. What you probably remember that year, so that's why you're nervous, is that one police action was carried out in that year, along with the prosecution, where many of your friends were users of the service of the militia or the police, and that's a memory that's, of course, hard to understand, but it was all deserved. Anyone who had then had the opportunity to spend the night or more in custody, and then of course came to justice and were convicted many, many, many, that many of them were members of your parties, were then called different, radical or whatever, it had nothing to do with privatisations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12056	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Mr Dejan Radenkovic, a replica, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12057	Thank you, Vice President. I will return to the exposés of Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, and my colleague, the head of the parliamentary group, said a few days ago that the late Zoran Djindjic left his will, would certainly never have written that he would have inherited it in that place. In your exposé, you announced the privatisations "Sartida" and "Beopetrola" and we know what today is about "Sartida" and "Beopetrol". Do I need to talk more, do we need to break it up? Neither do you. If we break up any further, we'll go too far. As for the fact that you've arrested 13,000 people in that famous "Sabbe" action, let's check the data on how many of them have been sued and received money from the citizens of Serbia, from the budget, because you arrested whoever you've arrived for, whatever you didn't like, you've been ordered to be arrested. Don't do that. It's been a long time. Unfortunately today, and I'll say later, when I'm using the time we have left, a nice analysis, and that's what I did to your then Minister, Bozidar Djelic, whom you proposed then as Prime Minister, has repeatedly been passed on to him on the Committee of Finance and here in the tide, and when there were rebalancing and budgets, as we have come to this situation. It's very easy. Not to mention the SDK payment service, no control. Laugh you, you destroyed something so your friends could steal and not pay taxes, that was the basis. I'll draw it for you later, I've got plenty of time, don't worry. Take it easy, we'll all go for the tans.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12058	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. The word has a minister in the government, Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12059	It really comes out of the scope of our debate, but it has to do with the deficits that need to be covered in the budget. In six months, the famous "Sablje" has been arrested by more people in Serbia's size than in five years of naked so-called "Sablje". An infobiro at the size of the SFRY, to 22 million people. From that, up to 300 verdicts and less, and to this day we pay for the penalty, millions of penals for the people who were imprisoned by order of any municipal boards of the ruling parties. It wasn't justice, but what was justice? It was justice that after the action, Ljubish Buha Chuma, Mile Jerkovic, also privatised what was left of Serbia. Today we pay for what Mile Jerkovic privatised, today we pay for what Buha privatised, today we pay for what the whole society of the mutated and what privatized Serbia, peacefully trading money earned as drug dealers and murderers, trading for protection as protected witnesses. Here they are, people are privatization owners of half of Serbia. It has to do with, unfortunately, our budget and it has to do with the penalty this country has been paying for all these years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12060	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. The word has been made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12061	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is not a topic, but unfortunately the minister has opened the topic, I think that the "Sabbe" action deserves a round of applause not only from us Democrats who were then trying to maintain order in a country that was on the edge of chaos, but also from fellow SPS colleagues, who were just in this action...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12062	Mr. Sutanovac, I think you'd better explain your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12063	I'm sorry, I'm responding to what the minister said. I have the right to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12064	Here, one sentence and please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12065	So, in the action, among other tens of thousands of crimes that were resolved, the murder of former Serbian President Mr Stambolic was resolved. You don't have to applaud when they talk about it that way, you SPS colleagues. So, this amendment, Mr. Minister, reduces the base for all public sector employees. That reduction can only... Mr. Becic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12066	Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12067	I don't hear from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12068	I hear you very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12069	So that's how you reduce not only your retirement base, but also your health leave. You're doing double damage. In addition to the fact that health care has already reduced the budget because the health minister here told us that we have a surplus in health care, this is the second step to finally stab a nail in a coffin called Serbian Health. Please don't do this. I understand you're not going to be treated here, but the people who live here have no other health care. Change at least this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12070	Time, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12071	On the other hand, Mr. Vulin, when you say that the government doesn't divide the workers into party membership, but for good and bad, don't cut the salary... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12072	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Mr. Becic, you've taken 30 seconds from me. Mr. Sutanovac, I've returned time to you from scratch again and don't be like that. You've passed ten seconds. Please, I warned you to finish. The word is Mr. Nejo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12073	Thank you, Chairman. I expected you to react to the advertising of the Rules of Procedure as soon as I pointed out. Thank you for doing this now. I appeal to the provisions of article 107. The Rules of Procedure, given that MP Zivkovic has injured this parliament's dignity by pointing out the truths, especially the untrues at the expense of the SPS parliamentary group and the Socialist Party of Serbia itself, making numerous lies, and the truth is on the other side. We, as the opposition at that time, were often confirmed, were unable to oppose one boast, and the boast comes down to the fact that a radical Privatisation Act was passed in 2001, which generated all the problems of this country, which destroyed the economy, which drove a large number of employees into the streets, which destroyed the existence of numerous family households members, who devalued the property, which my esteemed colleague Radenkovic pointed to several times, through a variety of suspicious and not only suspicious, but absolutely illegal value estimates of property. What's worse in the whole story, we couldn't influence the sale of Sartide for one euro, to bow down to cements such as beech, paracinal and others...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12074	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12075	We couldn't influence other illegalities and criminal acts... (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place:...) [[Disabled microphone.]] But that's why we're so happy now that this government identifies these problems and prosecutes the perpetrators of these crimes... )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12076	Mr. Jovanovic, do you notice your microphone is off? I don't think Mr. Zivkovic could have broken the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure can only break the Chairman. You know very well as an SPS MP, and Mr Radenkovic received a replica based on Mr Zivkovic's presentation. The word is Mr. Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12077	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Becic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government in resignation, as far as I know, I believe that you, Mr. Becic, have injured the Rules of Procedure shortly before during Mr. Nedja Jovanovic's speech. I'm advertising Article 103. You've allowed Mr. Nejo Jovanovic to report here after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He started talking, and what he was talking about had nothing to do with his intervention over... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12078	Mr. Pavicevic... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: He spoke 90 seconds without warning him. Mr. Pavicevic, I did the same thing with Mr. Jovanovic. As soon as you don't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, I'll turn off the microphone. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: No basis. ) The basis exists. I also turned off Mr. Jovanovic's microphone. That 90 seconds he spoke without a microphone, so unfortunately you're wrong, Mr. Pavicevic. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12079	Mr. Chairman, again you have not responded to the lies presented in the National Assembly, and the lie that the government is resigning, and the truth is that the Office of the National Assembly is still working and awaiting the resignation of one MP. It is true that the Administrative Board is scheduled for half past eleven tomorrow and that we expect one resignation, to adopt it, and to refer it to the National Assembly for adoption. Of course, if he has political and parliamentary integrity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12080	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12081	Dear Chairman, I really ask you to try a session to bring the Rules of Procedure into progress.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12082	Mr. Djurishic, I just introduced her. You have a word for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12083	If nothing else, at least the services do that part of the job, the MPs who got out of the O.R. without their cards.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12084	I'm asking the department to take all the cards out of the MPs' units where the MP isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12085	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now let's go back to our amendment. Our amendment here is a key difference between the government's proposal and our proposal. I'd like to hear about the 25,000 dinar limit, which will not be covered by the taxation of this law. What sociological or economic measure was decisive when it came to that number of 25,000? My impression, by reading the bill's proposal, is that it went from how much in the mass it took to saving, and then we watched how much we were going to tax and look for some limit to fit into those numbers and we got to 25,000 dinar figures. Our proposal is different. Our proposal envisions a lower limit of 35,000 dinars. Why 35,000 dinars? Economic logic, it's the lowest consumer basket in Serbia. We believe that those who earn the sum equal to the lowest consumer basket in Serbia should not be taxed. The next range is 35 to 66,000. So 66,000 is the average consumer basket in Serbia. It's an economic logic that has a foundation in the lives of Serbian citizens, in how much money they need to survive, and not just to watch how much money mathematically we need to move on the dissipated side. We know that our mathematics, which is different from what the government suggested, is probably in the pool, although it predicts a 20% tax rate of that part of over 100,000 dinars, which is not the case now, and it is the case under the Solidarity Tax Act, probably does not give the same sum as the biller calculated that it needs to be saved annually. We feel that savings are needed elsewhere, as if it were necessary to work, above all on the revenue side of the budget. We talked today just a little bit about the need to charge VAT more efficiently?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12086	Mr. Djurishich, are you using time?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12087	Yeah. The government has rejected this amendment of ours. Of course, because it conflicts with the principle defined in Article 1 which says that here the base of profit is reduced by 10%, not as we predicted, but we think our solution is fairer, that less will guess, socially endanger the citizens of Serbia. We don't know why the 25 thousand dinars border, how this line has been reached, and we have proposed these other amounts for minimum taxation and for the determination of different degrees in different sums, which, above all, stem from how much it takes for Serbian citizens to survive. Thirty-five thousand dinars, minimum consumer basket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12088	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Master Dejan Capo. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an amendment holder, Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12089	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister and other members of the team, our amendment refers to this Article 5, which we would like to replace with two new positions. In fact, he would say: “A worker whose basic net salary was lower than 25 thousand dinars before the application of this full - time law, as well as an employee who, before the application of this law, was a parent, adoptor or an old child under the age of 14, retain their net salary. ” That I don't read any further this article just for the sake of time. Namely, what was our motive and our explanation. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, Serbia has a total of 2 million and 300,000 people in the employee category, and it employs a million and 700 thousand of them, of which 781,000 are in the public sector, about 33% of the category of all employees and 46% of the real employees, respectively. Given what the point of this amendment is, given that there are only 14.18% of the population in Serbia made up of children up to 14 years of age, a total of just over a million children of that age, we can rightly assume that one third of children up to 14 years were supported by public sector workers, which would be around 350,000 children. It means 350,000 preschool or primary school children about a population with increased needs for better nutrition, clothing, shoes, etc. The projected wage reduction will take the biggest blow precisely to the standard of 350,000 children whose parents are employed in the public sector, as parents have so far absorbed the impact of the crisis due to an increasingly frequent reduction in domestic budgets for which there will be no more space. Unfortunately, it is the impression that this aspect has not been considered at all, although we are all in great favour of the fact that children are the most important in our lives, and therefore the proposed law instead of competition must promote solidarity among public sector workers at a negative rate of natural origin, or where more people die than those who are born. Serbia must in any way take concrete steps and solutions to protect what it has and to take care of the most sensitive population, and these are children up to 14 years of age, as must older people over 60 and 65 years of age. Unfortunately, this aspect of concern for this population is not seen from all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12090	Thank you, Mrs. Lazic. Members of the 6th Amendment were submitted together in the same text by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Master of Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12091	And to this member, as well as to the other members, other than the two last members, we have submitted an amendment requiring the removal of this member, because we think that the law is bad, that the law has given a Parisian approach to solving a major problem, that the chances of solving this cancer are missed, and that's the excess employees, brought in those who are not the problem, because they are members of the parties, but because they are only in life and because they have only been given privileges, the honor to work in the public sector. This prevented, first of all, people working alongside themselves in the public sector from doing well, because they are in the way, taking away their chairs, bothering them to work their day-to-day obligations, preventing some other people who are not party members from taking good seats in the state administration and working on the benefit of citizens, all citizens, regardless of what parties they are from and finally, came there to spread the propaganda of a failed policy. Of course, that didn't begin for the first time in 2012, it's been this before, in the last 10 years, but since 2012, it's been bordering on an elementary disaster. The question is whether it will decrease by 10% in the "ErSerbija", where these salaries are, of course, high? As far as I hear from the former Prime Minister, he boasts every day that it's his personal and greatest success in the last two and a half years, and if so, it's probably some state-owned company. If it is a state-owned company, I'm very interested in it, will they bear and suffer the consequences of all other people? Of course, that goes for "Belgrade on Water", and another fairy tale from the fat book of the fairy tales of Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12092	Thank you. Replica, head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12093	It is interesting when amendments come from MPs in resignation, but until tomorrow morning at half past eleven when the Administrative Committee is scheduled, where hopefully, if there is political honesty, we will resign and adopt. Now in this amendment we could see one inconsistencies. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will discuss two laws tomorrow, the law amending the Law on Judges and amending the Law on Prosecutors. In this law amending the Law on Judges, Article 97 provides that young people who graduate from the Law School with the highest grades in time and who pass a judicial exam with a distinction, and believe me, according to the Justice Department information, three in two years, this legislative proposal proposed by the SNS, along with coalition colleagues, we accept that these people who pass the justice exam get an automatic job in the state, in the judiciary. We've offered, there's no reason to be nervous, we'll get to the point, that behind that law we all sign, all 250 MPs, but we've got a negative answer from colleagues who'll resign tomorrow and be resolved, because they didn't tell the truth, where he said they didn't, no, they don't need a state, not even those who pass the judicial exam with distinction. Now even those with the party book are no good, now the ones who passed the judicial exam with the medals are no good? Then what's the matter? I believe the applicant of the amendment is not a good country, actually.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12094	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Zivkovic, he didn't mention you, he was talking about the amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: He mentioned the author of the amendment, and I wrote the amendment. ) As such, the applicant of the amendment are MPs: Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavićevic, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. So he could have thought of any of these MPs... (Gordana Comić, from the place: If he thought of me, he didn't say anything good. )......................................................................................................... So I give my word to the People's Messenger Gordani Komic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Mr. Chairman, I showed the book, you saw me, now I recite to answer. Please. ... But, Mr. Pavicevic, you've been in the Assembly long enough, when some MP is getting a word that we can't report for the Rules of Procedure at that moment and that we're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Comic got her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12095	No problem for another 50 seconds, I'll do less. Well. Article 6 Suggestion, my colleague is to delete that member. He says that other permanent incomes in the same amount decrease 10% and in the second position talk about exceptions. I have submitted amendments for all members to be deleted, because I believe that this law should not be in the legal system, and I will explain very briefly why. Ten months ago, we passed a law on net income cuts, so-called "solidar tax," I asked your predecessors twice about the effects that on public finances had applied the provisions of the Solidarity Tax Act? First, I got no answer, and then I got 60 to 300m euros. I didn't ask any more questions, so I'm not asking you now how do you think you can prove to me that this will be combined with a pension reduction of 370m euros. Why do I think that's a good question for the ministers? You're here on a private road, and in a small digression I find unnecessary damage to the fact that in a media campaign tabloid or whatever at a time while a minister defends budget and law rebalancing, information about being replaced or being reconstructed. It's someone who's talented at communication to trade for interesting issues in public, but it's not done. In that sense, I'm sorry that you have to answer such questions because it's not done. But now what's there is. Why am I asking you this question about effects? You're my sixth finance minister. So, I asked similar questions to Minister Djelic, Minister Cvetkovic, Minister Dinkic twice, Minister Dragutinovic, Minister Lazar Krstic. I remind you this because I think it's important that when a MP asks you a question about the effects of the law, that we don't get an answer, we don't know yet, we have no criteria...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12096	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12097	So, yesterday, I don't know if you were in the O.R. when we answered the question, just to explain to the first question -- what were the effects of a solidarity tax? We said there's a 11.5 billion figure in the budget rebalance that contains two elements. One is 10.5 billion that relate to the application of the solidarity tax, and the other remaining value from one billion to 11.5 billion refers to the estimated effects of this law by the end of the year. As you have noticed from this law, the funds will be transferred in the same way to the budget as with the solidarity tax, although the way of editing is slightly different. It's different, above all, in taxes and income contributions, and it's going to have different effects. As for the estimated effects for next year, that is what we focus on that so-called "price pillar", part of the first pillar, is expected to have a net effect on the 160m-euro budget next year, roughly said. The course we've been applying, it raises to about 20 billion, right? It's to 20 billion, it's a net effect, so it's applied to gross wages, and then it's reduced by the contribution and tax effect of all of them, and then the effect of the lower wages on VAT is applied at a weighted rate between two rates of VAT 20% and 10%. So there's one model that counts and we're probably going to re-audit it in the next upcoming negotiations with the fund, based on the latest data in the structure of the consumption of relevant income groups, but the bottom line is that. Roughly speaking, the gross effect is twice as big, about 320 million, the net effect will be between 160 and 170. What a real effect it will be, will depend on the discipline to which public enterprises will carry out this, the state in the part they control, determines to implement it directly, and in the part where it is out of state, it will be carried out through the operation, that is, the decisions of the authorities of these public enterprises, or will be controlled through a system of mechanisms by monitoring the work of these companies. Just for the sake of information, we've had a slide of about 10 to 12% in solid tax, I expect we'll have less of that skating here, and we'll be closer to the estimated eroffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12098	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given by MP Marko Djurisic, the applicant for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12099	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, the Government has rejected our amendment with a reason not to accept it because the proposed amendment to Article 6 is to comply with the amendment to Article 5 of the Law which the same MPs have submitted and the Government has refused and I absolutely understand this argument and I support it and that is the consequence of the different concepts that we propose in relation to the Government that proposed this law. I still didn't get an answer why the $25,000 figure? Why did it go from that figure and not from one another, or why did we propose 35,000 as part of which is not taxed, which is a minimum consumer basket, to apply one rate to 66,000, representing the average consumer basket, another rate to apply up to 100,000, and over 100,000, unfortunately in Serbia, it is less than 900 euros to be considered an extra profit and then to tax that difference at a rate of 20%? We did not get an answer to that, apart from the different concept, he is fine, our figures are considered more fair, more appropriate to the standard of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They also consider life rather than just mathematics and the need for the government to save a certain amount of money. We are aware that the adoption of our amendment would not provide enough money, the minister was now talking about how much expectations are under this law, but we, I say, again believe that there are other places to save and that there are a lot more places to increase income and that this is something the government should come with and that this measure should be at the end and not at the beginning, as the minister repeatedly reiterated that this is the first initial measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12100	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12101	At this point, the number of 25,000, just to tell you, is extremely pragmatically chosen on the basis of two indicators. One is that the average pensions are 25,000 and that's the average pension size, if you look at the distribution, the data, that's the average pension in Serbia and the other, that's the data that is the average basket 33,000, but on average you don't have just one source of income per family. Therefore, when it is calculated that on average 1.2; 1.3; 1.4 employees per family, i.e. the recipient of different incomes, then you get a number that is very close to that basket. They also took into account that you have a minimum profit that, after the change in the minimum labour price will be at a level of 22,000 or how much, that's all the sizes that are quite close and that's the size that we need to protect because of the way we define these measures. We could've done a full analysis and we could've done an analysis and we could've done this, it's easy to change those laws. If we get a better analysis, a better quality, we can get that done. At this stage, we had to have some numbers based on data, on real numbers, and give us the effects that fit, which are enough to put together a program, to jump the savings that are necessary to pass. We could've had 15% if we had twice as much as we needed, but the price for the people would've been a lot higher. I know it's very easy to carry out a 15% linear reduction or 20, as some before us have suggested and still suggest a parallel, it's easy to do and calculate, but I think the price is a political, social price, too high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12102	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12103	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry, respected representatives of the government, the whole concept of submitting these amendments refers to eradicating the whole law and is not hiding it. We generally agree that austerity measures are necessary. The austerity measures are necessary, but the way it stretches here and the way the bill is proposed cannot be supported. Given that we all have to bear a common burden of savings and that this burden is a ballast for all of us in the further progress of this country, I believe that we should first and fundamentally coordinate the overpaid state officials that there are even too many. If we consider the various directors of various agencies, various directors of certain companies, railways, etc., it is absurd to think that one of them can have more responsibility than I am prime minister. It's absurd to think that they can have more pay than the prime minister himself. If the prime minister isn't responsible enough, are they in that situation? We have a bunch of agencies that have even bigger budgets. I think that should be lifted and considered by the workers themselves, asking for a review of all these decisions, so I would take advantage of this situation and ask the government to think about it. Of course, it even mentions membership in the supervisory committees, the monitoring committees in which people who have not contributed to the company’s profits. For what reason do they receive compensation in that company? We think they should be lifted. So, not to lift the boards, but when they make a profit then they'd have what to pay for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12104	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. Government Minister Dr Dusan Vujovic said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12105	I have mentioned earlier that this is a measure taken at the level of the budget and that this measure absolutely does not exclude, even assuming that in the government, based on future laws that will regulate public administration, and in public enterprises, based on future law on public enterprises, how to choose managers, how to determine the criteria for assessing the performance of people at work, there will be measures to regulate certain categories. In addition, there is a law on restricting wages in the public sector, which you can one move change and reduce existing ceilings, lower them. They will still be far higher, I suppose, than what ceilings are in public administration, which are now at a level of 120,000 approximately, and ministers receive, as I said, 105,000. I think that would just help. Any measure that reduces the costs and brings us closer to that goal at the level of the ministries, at the level of public enterprises, and does not reduce the quality of the public services provided, increases transparency, is welcome. Therefore, these laws do not require this to be the only measure at all. This is the minimum we need. So it can be determined not to decrease individually 10%, but to reduce so-called. a 10% salary fund, so someone within their jurisdiction, but that goes beyond the department of finance's jurisdiction. This is something that we can already define and discuss within the next budget within the framework of the fiscal strategy. In other words, I do not aim at reducing wages individually, I aim to reduce the cost, which is too high and unsustainable, while preserving both efficiency in business and responsibility and a transparent governance structure and a transparent implementation structure. Therefore, we can discuss all this under the Law on Public Administration and the Law on Public Enterprises, and all we can say is that these laws will preserve the objectives of fiscal consolidation which is the only thing we need from the point of view of the macro image. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12106	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the respected former Minister Vujovic, I am first grateful that you have actually given one piece of support to the New Party's economic programme with these last sentences in response to your fellow MP. Everything that was your last line here, it's something that's written in the New Party Economic Reform Programme. Well done, even though the government is resigning. We have submitted an amendment to Article 7. The bill and I will only state this first position where it is said. "The beneficiaries of public funds that reduce the planned amount of salary appropriations are obliged to pay the difference between the total amount of salaries calculated by applying a base which is not reduced within three days of the date of the final payment made for a specific month." So, you cut 10% now, you make it mandatory for him to pay you back within three days if something a little bit more is paid and I want here, dear Minister, even though the former, Vujovic, to tell you the next thing – it is very important to know that these 10%, which is also in Article 7. It's a bill of law, that it's about hitting that part of the population that in every country makes up part of the middle-class population. In every developed state, the middle layer of the population, respected by Mr Vujovic, is the social foundation of democracy. This is the kind of measure you're hitting on one of the pillars of the democratic order, and I don't think we should take that kind of measure from the Government of the Republic of Serbia here. I ask the Members of Parliament to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12108	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Mr. Pavicevic, you are a well-mannered man, Professor, and don't speak to Mr. Minister like that. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Đurišići, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. That the line wants a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12109	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, this amendment is in fact simply the result of the alignment of Article 7 with the amendments that we have provided for in Article 5. Our proposal for an amendment reads: "Income payers are required to pay the difference between the total amount of the net salary, i.e. other income for a certain month, on the basis of the payment of the public income of the Republic of Serbia, or other net receipts of the reduced net earnings, or other net receipts made by the application of Article 5, within three days from the bottom of the final payment made, The payment obligation within the meaning of Article 1 has also been made by the National Bank of Serbia. the users of the public funds referred to in Article 1 and the National Bank of Serbia shall be obliged to make payments under the position of 1 this Member cannot define or benefit for other purposes." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12110	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12111	In one sentence I mentioned, when we talked earlier, the mechanism was taken over from the solidarity tax mechanism. So the very method of saving the savings that are being made here is treated as a transfer of funds that are otherwise considered non-taxable income. This is a sub-optimal solution and by adopting a new law on public services and on the system of wages in the state, and hopefully, to public enterprises, we will change that. New salaries will be defined and such a measure will not be necessary. So it's a transit measure, because we have no other way, more efficient way, to transfer the savings that are achieved into the budget and reflect as a reduction in deficits. That's the point of that measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12112	Thank you, Mr. Vujovic. Members of the 8th Amendment are together in the same text as the mid-term MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12113	Article 8 discusses the obligations of public undertakings established by the republic, autonomous province or local self-government. And in, may I be allowed, a personal digression, I would ask that this member be deleted only by speaking of an over-the-counting form for profit. I know that they will tell me – well, it must be so done, and I will ask you to as one of the measures that we should have applied with the austerity measures that you will adopt and throw out these certified forms and similar, control stamps, because there is no such thing in the countries to which you normally call. So we cannot call for austerity measures to be imposed without mentioning the management measures that were in the countries of verbalism, regardless of the austerity measures that did not bring results. Why do we think this member should be deleted? The entire segment for public enterprises implies a specific type of control in terms of payment of contributions and is related to Article 7 and to control by competent public undertakings ministries. My most well-intentioned unsolicited advice would only be to analyse this member if you could come to the Assembly during discussions and agreements and draft budgets for 2015, say 30 November or 2 December, not to the Assembly, to the Committee on Finance or to the Committee on European Integration, and to share with MPs what difficulties you face and what report on payments in matters of public enterprises. Because, um, it won't be useful to reduce the deficits, but you'll have a huge problem here, I guarantee you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12114	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12115	And we have submitted to this article an amendment that reads -- it is deleted, with the intention of showing that the whole law, or most of this law, is not good, by saying that we have not submitted any amendments to Article 12 and Article 13 because we think that's the only thing that makes sense in this law. In Article 12, the Law on the reduction of the net income of persons in the public sector, so-called A solid tax, which was a punishment for good doctors, professors and others... (President: Mr. Zivkovic, this is an amendment to Article 8.) Sure, well, I guess I can say something besides that. It's got something to do with it. With that tax, good doctors, professors and other good and professional people in the public sector were punished. This Article 12 abolishes that tax and that is very good, and I congratulate the minister on such a bold decision. Article 13 is just a formal part. In Article 8, it's probably one 300, 400 letter signs, a real control mechanism for public companies to apply this law. We said it should be deleted, because in general it should be deleted, but generally this is about the trust that the Serbian Government, and especially the finance minister, has in the public sector, which is, behold, miraculously, under the rule of the same authorities and at the state level. Such a level of mistrust is due to the justified fear that most of these public enterprises in the last few years, be it 10, have been a practical place of many abuses, with several honorable exceptions, but that public enterprises were, in the worst sense, public houses in the Serbian economy in most of these words.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12116	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Government Minister Dr Dusan Vujovic spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12117	In principle, I agree with both proposals. I also think that we should discuss these solutions within and within the integration of all processes and as part of financial control, chapter 32, we are just opening negotiations, therefore it is an integral part of it and we fully agree there. What is found in Article 8 is an existing practice that has only been reflected in this law, which has been valid since 2004. I admit, we haven't had the strength and concentration to change it so far, to improve the control system, to introduce a system of electronic signatures on those payrolls. We may have had the same system from the ZDK, then the PDO, then this. It's a relapse of the past. I totally agree he can be more modern. I totally agree that we should do this, but I don't think we've had a better solution at this point. That's why we've taken over the existing solutions. I accept the suggestion that we organise a discussion and improve it in the budget for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12118	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12119	With this amendment, we tried to consistently include the level of the autonomous province in the application of austerity and fiscal consolidation measures, so in Article 8(2), after the words - the local authorities, we added words - which mean that the same thing will be applied in the autonomous province. In attitude 3 after the words “local authorities, ” it is added, stuck and said:“ ie, an autonomous province. ” In paragraph 5, after saying "local authorities", the words "autonomial province" are added, and after saying "units of local authorities", the words "autonomous province" are added. So we tried to include consistently in this amendment the level of autonomous province in the application of measures. The government's opinion, it said, is that the amendment is not accepted because the notion of local authorities is a compliance with the Budget System Law. I'd like to ask you to explain how there's been a sudden alignment with the Budgetary System Act, and that wasn't done when the law was passed that we introduced a solidarity tax? The law explicitly separated the province level from the local level of government. In addition, it is clear that local and regional authorities are not the same. The constitution makes a difference, so the law would have to do that. I note that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs for our amendment has also established that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Our solution is more precise than what the bill says. I'm simply surprised that you're putting incorrect terms into the proposal. The Law on the Budgetary System cannot be a stronger legal force than the Constitution of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12120	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12121	The formulation used in the draft law that we are now discussing, as suggested by our government legislation, uses the definition set out in Article 1. The law on the budgetary system, which is governed by the laws on the annual budget, which is also the authority of the Law on the Rebalancing of the Annual Budget, and since this law monitors the implementation of budget rebalancing, the legal sequence exists and is unequivocal. She's just defining the term. It does not question any constitutional category. It just says -- this law regulates planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget, planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the AP budget and units of local self-government, in the text -- the local government budget. It just defines the term. So we're just using the definition of a term that all of this in the Constitution mentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12122	I thank Mr. Vujovic. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12123	Article 9 speaks of the government's obligation to comply with all regulations within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this law. I, of course, suggest that it be deleted, because I don't want this law to come into effect, but I ask your attention, since I'm going to ask a question related to Article 12, a question from which you can benefit and reduce various misunderstandings. Therefore, Article 12 speaks of the termination of the law on net income reduction. I have passed the whole law of that kind, and when it comes into force, it will say that it will cease to be the law on net income reduction on November 1st. In Article 9, on which I have submitted an amendment, you shall give a 15-day deadline for the Government to comply with all the regulations and any person who makes decisions on salaries and the like, you shall give a 15-day period. What pay will I receive between November 1st and November 10th? By what law? Anyone who is obliged to enter into force within 15 days, today is October 26th, the law will enter into force tomorrow, so from October, you will remain 28, 29th, 30th and 31st. You're giving the law 15 days to comply with the acts. The Law on the So-called So-called Law. the solidarity tax ends on 1 November. Who's counting my salary until I get the pieces in line? Not because of us, don't get it wrong, I'm not talking about myself, I'm talking about the situation that you have a very large number of people who are going to be downsized and that you have a very large number of other people who are doing this downsizing for those who are ending the net income. Most of these people work on your behalf.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12124	Time, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12125	If you don't have an answer, I don't insist, but I ask you to inform people clearly. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12126	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Professor Vladimir Pavicevic answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, gentlemen, we, of course, have submitted the amendment to Article 9 of this bill. Here, I can now say, attitude 1. says – The government will comply with the rules within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this law, and Mrs. Comic also mentioned it, and other acts relating to the foundations, whose decision is with the provisions of this law. Of course, so do we, and therefore we have submitted an amendment to Article 9, that this bill should not be adopted in this assembly tonight, nor should it enter into force. Now I am speaking, first of all, to the MPs of this National Assembly who have a chance to take note of the arguments we have been trying to present here all day, which is why we believe that the adoption of this law, or the bill now, will make one great injustice in our society. There are two additional arguments that I offer here in favour of our debate. One thing is, in my judgment, I think that a government proposal like this can actually result in an additional poverty of one good part of our country's inhabitants, who by nature things belong to the middle layer. Then I go on and on and on and on, so it can't be a misery, it can't be poverty that carries democracy in our country. Second argument, this is an appeal to the People's MPs, and I think we should do some kind of surveillance of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia here. I think the debate on the budget, about this kind of bill is always a chance to further check the way this government works, to introduce new control mechanisms, instead of just confirming as MPs here some of the proposals sent by the government here. So, just once again, I ask that this argument be considered, that it be respected, because by accepting the amendment we don't actually accept an unfair and bad bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12128	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12129	Thank you, Mr. President. Again, our amendment is to implement the principle of minor evil. How do we feel about keeping solutions from the Solidarity Tax Act and the term of net earnings? Our amendment provided for Article 9(2) of Article 1 to delete and Article 2 to state that the Minister in charge of finance affairs is closer to regulating the way in which the net earnings and other net incomes are reduced. The government has not accepted our amendment. The explanation is a little vague, but now it's not that important. What I wanted to say to this occasion is that I'm just glad we heard from the minister that there were 25,000 dinar figures and that this number could change. I hope that it will change in the future, that it will grow, that there will be more money in the budget, so that the number of workers in this case will be reduced, as well as the pensioners whose state will take one part of their income, to patch the hole in the budget. I would ask the minister for another answer, when these laws are implemented, as proposed, and I have the feeling that this will happen by adopting these laws at the end of the day, how much will the average salary and the average pension in Serbia be reduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12130	The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12131	It says here that a fine of 500 to 2 million dinars will punish a criminal legal person who is a beneficiary of public funds, except for the Republic of Serbia and local authorities, as well as their authorities, if so - do not execute. Why is the Republic of Serbia, local authorities and their authorities exempted here? That's unclear, so it would be good for the minister to explain it to us. Since we are at the end of this series of our amendments to this law, I am glad that we agreed with Minister and Mr Pavicevic and I that this is not the measure that solves the problem, that there should be serious measures. We fully agree with what the minister put forward and what our vision is and our programme to solve this problem, which is that it is necessary to reduce the amount of wages in the public sector by at least 9%. Probably more than that, and that this intention is insufficient to cut wages linearly, than to go towards reducing the number of employees, primarily from the categories brought in and categories of those who do not know why they are employed, they do not know what they do when they go to their jobs. This is just the first measure, I think to this extent you need to be stronger, deeper, more consistent and that you are looking for and saving for part of what the Pension Fund or that part of the budget-based distribution to the Pension Fund, and the Pension Fund is the topic of the second law that follows this, must be resolved in a more long-term, sustainable way, through private funds, through mandatory private pension insurance, through the capitalisation of the Pension Fund or I don't know how, but certainly not in a way that the poor pensions, which are protected by the constitutional category, are reduced.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12132	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12133	In its first position, Article 10 speaks of criminal penalties. I ask that it be erased, because the criminal penalties we impose on them in the system are that punishment is paid by someone else's money. So it's said to be a fine of five hundred thousand to two million dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person who is a beneficiary of public funds. Who is the legal person who is the beneficiary of public funds if not the Republic of Serbia, if not local authorities and their bodies, public enterprises. So, where, if it's schools, health centres and others, are they going to be, where do they pay for it? From the same budget?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12134	Please, no communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12135	I'm sorry, Mr President, but this really was a friendly exchange between the minister and me, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12136	I do, but after the session, now officially.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12137	Excuse me. So, you want this to be preventive and to tell the school, the center, not to a public firm like EPS, and to a public enterprise, don't violate this law, because from the same budget that you're going to save to pay in that budget five hundred thousand and two million. I've been doing this for a long time, and it didn't work out for me when I was a minority, because it's, like, a violation of the law on the availability of information, the Protector of the Citizens, so he pays you the fine, and everything looks fine from the same budget that he's supposed to be saving in. The personal penalty from 50 to 100,000 dinars is for a responsible person, it can have an effect. I'm afraid even to say this, but I'm really afraid that there are public enterprises that are going to pay off this, and it's not my will to provide me with that information.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12138	Minister, pay attention only on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12139	Just one sentence. So you've noticed a good logic. The logic is that only those who have their own responsibility and their own resources that are not in the budget pay, and secondly, an individual-level violation exists in the last position of this member and that includes everything. This includes state, direct and indirect users of public enterprise funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12140	The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandra Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Gordana, you are not the bearer of the amendment. There's no replica, you said it was a friendly chat, so I don't give a line. Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12141	My observations relate together with Article 11, which I want to delete, because it speaks of inspection supervision of the fact that the inspection under Article 10 will be carried out. In the first position, you are exempting the Republic of Serbia and local authorities and their organs. In your last position, you are calling for a violation of attitude 1 and then, in your last position, introduce the Republic of Serbia into local authorities and their organs. So you're saying in your final position in article 10 that the person responsible for the offence will be punished, and in the first position you're excluding that they can be punished by a fine of 500 to two million dinars. This is what every inspection and everyone will interpret differently, because it should have been made more clear in the fourth position, that is, in the last position that you will assume for your personal responsibility by this criminal punishment, otherwise we will have the usual, and this is not the first such law, this is the third time that I read such an attitude, so we will have the usual processes, that even when the inspection works, that the responsible person is called upon to interpret the law of this kind and does not pay the criminal penalty either the first or the last time. It's not just a language thing, you have time to vote or, here, just let it be a warning for future interpretation of the law. I share with you the hope that there will be no offense, but I live in reality and I can guarantee you that unfortunately there will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12142	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12143	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, honored gentlemen, on behalf of our amendment to Article 11, here are just two additions to Mr. Vujovic. I think we agree on three things. We agree that the total wage fund should be reduced in the public sector. We also agree on the defined goals that we have come to by reading your explanation why you feel that our amendments should not be accepted. For example, one goal is to ensure the stability of public finances. Of course, I agree with you on that. Or, it says - structural reforms aim to create a business environment that will allow foreign and domestic investment to grow, accelerate economic restructuring, create conditions for new employment and increase productivity and competitiveness of the economy. Of course, we don't have any dilemmas, as if it were taken over from the New Party's economic reform programme, but we don't agree on, gentlemen. We don't agree on the way it's meant by this bill. So, we think that the easiest thing possible, well, here, and for the amendment to Article 11, was to cut the pay linearly to everyone, and we repeated it here, and to those who are worthy, and to those who are not worthy and to those people who are members of political parties, but did not deserve to take appropriate positions in the public sector. So each man is treated with these measures in one, the only unique way. We felt that this made us wrong about justice and justice, and therefore we felt that this proposal should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12144	Amendment to be made after Article 11. The bill is added by a new member of the 12th together by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Kravidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12145	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen Ministers, fellow Members, it is our idea to add a new Article 12, which essentially obliges the Government to submit six months of reports twice a year on the effects of the application of this law. It's not the first time we've proposed in various laws to impose a government's obligation to regularly report to the National Assembly on the effects of applying certain laws. What's symptomatic is that every time the government has rejected these amendments with different explanations and this argument that rejects this amendment is one of the longest. So that argument, if you look at it, is almost on one entire page. It is said that the report cannot be given on June 6th, or December 31st, and we agree. It is necessary, of course, to pass some time from the time when the period ends so that a report can be submitted. We accept this failure that, I repeat, came first from the fact that for these amendments and for the whole preparation for this debate we have had less than two days, and the government has been preparing this for six months. But it is important to note one other thing about the rejection of this amendment. There, the government remembered that there is a Member of the National Assembly in the Rules of Procedure, which obliges the Government to report to the National Assembly on its work, especially on policy-making, at least once a year. As far as I know, such a report didn't come. The final bill is coming, some other reports are coming, but this is the work report that the National Assembly has been looking for hasn't happened. Even less was happening what was said further in the explanation that the board could conclude that it was asking the government for a report on the government's work. That didn't happen. I want to appeal here to colleagues from the ruling majority, who make up the majority of all the assembly committees and the largest number of committees and the leading representatives of the ruling majority, to use this right more from the Rules of Procedure, which, behold, reminds us and the Government, to ask the Government for reports on the application of certain laws, and so on tomorrow, when it comes into force. I accept the argument that our deadlines we have proposed here are not realistic, they are not feasible. We will correct that in some future laws, when we seek the government's legal obligation to report this parliament. I have the impression that the government will consistently reject it, as it has so far refused. I am taking this opportunity to invite fellow Members to take advantage of the opportunity we have under the Rules of Procedure to seek from time to time a report on the application of certain laws. So the Finance Committee could be there in the second half of next year, say, requesting a government report on the application of this law if we adopt it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12146	The Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to which, after Article 11. The draft law adds a new Article 12. Proposer representative, finance minister, accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12147	Thank you. I've already asked some questions about this provision in law. So on November 1st, the Net Income Act ceases to apply. As far as I am right about the previous question, an illustrative amendment has been tabled on a proposal from the Government, i.e. on a proposal from the Committee, I apologize, which reads: "This law applies to the payment of salaries, earnings and other permanent incomes from the users of public funds for the month of November 2014. I repeat the question now with this, because I was hoping that in the meantime it was corrected at least linguistically, but what's there? We'll have a problem. If it's about stopping the validity of the Solidarity Tax Act, and it's about rules and sublegal acts that you have to make, you have to have solutions and give people solutions, and this law says that it will start with the billing of wages, the earnings for November, I ask you – what in any organization, the body, which is the beneficiary of public funds, where the rules did not come into force until November 15th? How will you account for your salary from November 1st to November 15th? Please take care of that. It's important things. The whole idea is bad. There won't be any effect. But don’t increase the problem for people who need to count their own profits or make it even worse, that is, the illegal way. One law ceases to apply to us, to all who have had a solid tax. The rules and solutions have not come into force. People have to make money. They can't stay without it. I mean, he can, he can do anything, but I'm asking you to take a close look at it and avoid awkwardness.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12148	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12149	Thank you. I'll just take a minute. So, the amendment that talks about when the law comes into force, when the Assembly decides on it and the President of the Republic signs it. I want this member deleted, because I don't want this law to come into force. I hope, when we measure the effects of this law, I hope, I really hope that I will be wrong. But for now, I can only repeat - there is no parallel experience of such pay-cutting and pension measures contributing to good changes in the economy or public finances. I fully understand that this is used, so it has been in other countries, as a psychological step for people, that something has to be done, but I don't think Serbia is a society in which we should talk to people who are users of public funds or are retired in the next law. From there, I would like to see this law, and six months from now, when we check the effects of the law, the minister can prove to me that the reduced wages have produced effects that have been promised 10 billion dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12150	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. The third item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE WAY OF PARENZION You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavićić, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Boris Stefanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Božović, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrić, Vesna Martinović, Marko Djurisić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić. Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić, Dr Blažje Bradić, Konstantin Arsenović, Miroljub Stankovic, Borisav Kovacevic, Natasa Vukkovic and Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, as well as the amendment of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MPs Konstantin Arsenovic, Miroljub Stankovic and Borisav Kovacevic, in writing, withdrew the amendments they submitted together to Articles 2 and 3. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12151	And this law has the same goal, which is to reduce the gap in the budget. This is a legitimate goal, but the method to achieve this goal is wrong, and in this case even unconstitutional. We put it in our amendment. There have already been some interpretations of some legal experts, semi-experts and legal pacers whether or not this is justified. I hope that the majority will vote against this bill and will adopt our amendment, and if that does not happen, not only us, but several tens of thousands and pensioners and other Serbian citizens are ready to file for a constitutional assessment before the Constitutional Court. I can tell you that in reason, in creating this argument, there were people involved, not to say exactly what, but they are in the Constitutional Court, so don't expect the Constitutional Court to be the transmission of power, but I expect it to show what is the constitutional system of the Serbian state, which is to correct the illegal, unconstitutional behaviour of the government. Generally, to be clear to the citizens of Serbia, all pensioners, who have a pension of more than 25,000 dinars, as if that 25,000 dinars, some huge wealth is reduced pensions at a certain amount and more than they are paid in the public sector of the same nominal amount. So, pensioners are more punished than public sector workers, and pensions are based on an interpretation that we are close to, acquired law and cannot be changed by any law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12152	The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12153	Dear President, dear fellow MPs, I'm sorry the minister left the session. If the previous law, according to us, was shameless, this one is really embarrassing. Making savings in a way to declare pensions of 25,000 dinars, it's enough that pensioners who have spent their whole lives and working lives in a workplace, to survive, are simply inappropriate. In order to know how we got into this situation, we have to go back to that year, when the pension fund was practically robbed, and that's in the 1990s, when, because of inflation, which is why the pension fund financed those activities and practically dried up then. Since 2000, we've practically had a situation that a great deal of...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12154	By amendment, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12155	Yes, the amendment applies generally to the Pension Fund. We're against this law, so I think we need a little introduction, I don't think that's the problem. So, the DS believes it is totally unseemly to touch on that part of the funds received by Serbian citizens, who have earned that money. Pensions are acquired right, on the one hand, and property acquired on the other hand. No one has a pension rate relative to which party he belonged or which party he supported, but rather than how much money he was paying in the fund. Unfortunately, if we adopt a previous law that provides for wage cuts, i.e. the basics, the Pension Fund will be even more devastated and I'm afraid we'll be in a situation where we were in the beginning of 2000 when the former government left for almost a year's debt of outstanding pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12156	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12157	The Serbian Progressive Party will not accept, of course, this amendment, precisely because of the argument, but also because of the history of the amendment's proponents. For the sake of the amendments, we have come to the situation of applying these bitter and difficult measures to 39% of pensioners, due to corruption affairs during the rule of the former regime, during the time when they were personally rich, and the people were poor, and public finances went to heaven for debt. So, because of the past characterized by the loss of jobs in companies privatised to robbery, non-democratic, non-transparent ways, because of those who brought us into such a situation that in 2012, when they went so great and successful in political history, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected pensioners, and among them members of our families, and I'm sure you have them, the liquidity of the budget was 15 days. Now there's so many of those who shed those crocodile tears over the pensioners. They left half a pension in the budget, and everything else was spent, wasted, robbed, kidnapped, taken home, taken to the other side. Now, you and those who brought us into this situation, they shed crocodile tears over pensioners and public sector employees. What do you think, that Alexander Vucic, the government, the SNS, just woke up one morning and said, "Come on, we'll cut public sector wages, we'll cut pensions." No, we're doing it with huge savings in the public sector, we're doing it so we don't go into the bankruptcy that the former regime has pushed us into, a policy that's run in the economy, which has nothing to do with math or the economy. There is a lot of talk here that someone is experimenting, that this Serbian government is experimenting, but please, have these characteristics that we heard, that they refer to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether they came from such great experts, and that they also refer to the Government of Estonia, Latvia, Slovenia, Portugal, Spain, Greece, the Government of Romania, and now we have heard from President Putin that he is thinking about similar measures in the Russian Federation. There are people everywhere who don't know and have nothing to do with the economy, only those who brought us into this loss, they're the only ones who care about what we're going to do with public finances. It's hypocritical, gentlemen, for two years it is a short period, but it's long enough to remember all the bad things that the promoters of this amendment, what did the former regime do to the pensioners, mutilating them by having their children out of work, by leaving 400,000 people out of work, because in this way young people have been unable to go to studies, to study, to have a normal and dignified life, and now that such concern comes from these people? It's hypocritical. It's hypocritical to expect us to put our hands on both our mouths and our ears and our eyes and forget everything. No, you are responsible for this situation, and by the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy, Alexander Vukic's policy, it will not be cut by 25-30% in other countries. Look how it was in Romania, Estonia, but these measures came to 0.8% of the budget deficit. Only you want to put pink glasses on Serbian citizens' eyes, as if nothing had happened. As long as it's not your responsibility. Don't do that. The only thing you can do, honestly admit the mistakes in monetary policy, in the economy that you've implemented and help to make these measures better over the next two years, and I believe before, that we can return pensions and salaries to the old ones, and why not in the future and grow.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12158	Pursuant to Article 1 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking the Minister to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12159	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12160	Does anyone want a word about this amendment? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12161	Your Honor, I don't know how to understand the acceptance of this by the motionary. If this amendment is adopted, and since the applicant accepted it, it becomes an integral part, the words are deleted: "finally with pension payments for December 2017". First, the adoption of such an amendment raises the question of the very name of the law that speaks – the proposal for a law on the temporary arrangement of the way the pension is paid. Now this temporary thing is being erased. As proposed by the law, we knew that, as of November 2014, pensions in Serbia will be reduced as of December 2017. By adopting this amendment, we no longer know how long that measure will last. Now, what the citizens think. Do they trust a prime minister who says two years. I therefore urge you to vote in favour of our amendment saying this law should apply from November 2014 to November 2016. I don't know what adoption of this amendment means. No more temporary pension cuts, no more pension cuts. It remains to hope that something will happen at some point, as the government says conditions will be created for the end of this law. I have to admit that adoption, I don't know any of the lawyers telling me, if such an amendment is adopted, can it remain the name of the law as it stands - a temporary adjustment of the way pension is paid. Where's the temporary, if we determine the beginning, and we don't determine the end. So please do not accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12162	Thank you. Just to make a point. Since I didn't realize that a representative of the government, or Minister Vulin, had accepted this amendment. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Minister, do you want a word? You know, there's very little time left for the government. A little time. Now I'm going to calculate, but I'm going to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12163	This government has at least three years left. Every law is temporary because it lasts until another law replaces it. This way we just wanted to say one thing. We hope that the revenue side of the budget will be improved long before 2017. Why would they limit themselves? We believe in this country and believe in its economy, and we believe in its people. And the fact that you're constantly not comfortable with the country you live in and what's always got a problem with what's going on in it and you can never believe that there's gonna be anything good in it, and you've been able to see that there's going to be something good in this year. We talked about constitutionality, unconstitutionalness, I still don't understand what it's like to increase constitutionally, and it's unconstitutional to reduce. I don't understand. Anyone who can do more can do less. It was usually like that. When we call on the Constitution all the time and talk about the Constitution, it was unconstitutional to make privatisation according to the solutions at the time, which prohibited the Constitution, which equated all forms of property, including social property. You passed a law that must privatise social property before you changed the Constitution. But it's like he's dealing with these little things. Anyway, I'm sure we'll do this before 2017.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12164	The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12165	Turns out we from the opposition have more trust in the economy of this country. We think the state of the country will be better in two years, and we suggest that the validity of this law be served for two years. I don't know if it's a little contradictory, paradoxical situation, but I'm counting that MPs of the ruling majority who have so much confidence in the work of this government and in the results will accept this amendment and show that two years, as the prime minister said, is enough for Serbia, the economy of Serbia to take a better path and that the conditions for this temporary, I repeat again in the budget, to reduce pensions now by adopting this amendment, the question is whether it is temporary, abolished and that those pensioners who welcome November 2016, as much as we make life easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12166	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together with the MPs Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic and Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12167	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment to Article 2 of this Bill, which otherwise regulates the way pension pensioners whose pension is between 25,000 and 40,000 dinars. Please, it shouldn't happen that we pass a bill that reduces pensions to pensioners. Please, a member of the 58th Constitution, regardless of the opinion of individual ministers in this government, is an obstacle to the adoption of this bill. Dear gentlemen, I don't think that by not adopting this proposal, of course we are protecting the interests of the pensioners, but I believe we are also protecting certain principles of our constitutional system here, among which the principle of rule of law is set out in Article 3 of our Constitution. If we break the principle of rule of law, and I understand Minister Vulin, when he says, well you know what some of them used to break there, so it could have been, so others used to break it, and then they conclude that Minister Vulin says, so what if we break it now? Dear gentlemen, what a logic it is that you are referring to some of the examples that you consider to have been a violation of the Constitution, that by referring to these examples, you are giving yourself the right here in the National Assembly, in our legislative body that should take care of both constitutionality and legality, so let's break the Constitution. Wait. Let's think about how this discussion of ours is going. Of course, the interests of the pensioners to be protected, but also our Constitution is respected presidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12168	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12169	I'm so glad you admitted to breaking the Constitution, I'm glad. I'm glad you admitted that the law was broken in this country when it came to privatisation and I'm glad you admitted that all these years previous authorities have violated the Constitution, but I don't know where you found the excuse that I said we were breaking the constitution. No way. I only challenged the proponent's validity because at the time of their government, the constitution was violated and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12170	The word has Dragan Sutanovac, as the second proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12171	I think it is a fascinating discussion of Mr. Minister who contests the validity of the proposings elected to the Serbian Parliament. A little while ago, Mr. Minister also said that every law is temporary. I think this law will be more temporary for those pensioners who won't be able to survive this law. Today, the finance minister boasted that this law would not treat as much as 61%...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12172	Be nice, we're still at the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12173	Of course, I'm introducing you to the amendment, you're taking my time...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12174	I know, it's two minutes fast.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12175	You take my time every time. Please give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12176	I can't go back, I can pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12177	Pass, thank you. So, we're passing the law and we're saying that the DS is to blame for Serbia being in a situation where today over 61% of pensioners have a pension of 25,000 dinars, and 39 has even higher, and that's only true thanks to the DS government, today the average pension would be 14,000 dinars. We increased those pensions, we're not ashamed to say, because we inherited the monthly debt you left us in 2000, arranged the system, and everyone got paid on time, as well as the pension. Today we have a situation to go back to the year when 12 months for pensioners were about 10 months. We believe this law is, firstly, unconstitutional, to Article 58. Serbia's constitution guarantees people the inviolability of their pension not only in terms of obtaining pensions as such, but also the amount of money they have been paying. We believe that this will be found, I'm sure, and in Strasbourg, and the question will be how much damage will be done to the country exactly when a decision is made in favour of those citizens who will also be damaged by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12178	Thank you. By amendment, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12179	Thank you, Your Honor. Otherwise, I didn't intend to answer anything because it's been told more than once, but I just can't help but comment on things like this. You know, in order for someone to take a pension to work for the economy, and since they've destroyed the sun's economy worse than the NATO Pact, it's certainly hard for you to provide real income sources to give people maybe the pension they deserve. We don't want to, and that's the key message of all of this, to spend more money than we make. That's what they did. They were irresponsible. They've ruined the country. We don't want to do this, because we're agreed people and we're honest with the pensioners -- sorry, gentlemen, we're not thinking of destroying the country more than someone has destroyed, we want to make it possible for some standard to grow here and just try to raise your pension in the coming period... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Do you not interrupt him?) He can't keep it tight, he has to go wide? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12180	Wider, like you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12181	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12182	Okay, you want me to break it up? Don't be so broad, says the Messenger of the Shutanovac. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Let's go to the line. () Please, honourable MPs, very little more. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: In what? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Whatever you want. MPs, I'll interrupt the session. That's what I tell everyone. This is unbearable. I'll be forced to interrupt the session. Otherwise, I can't establish order. Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic together. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12183	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, our amendment is in line with what we have proposed as a solution in the previous law, which is to change the minimum basis for applying the law from 25 to 35 000, which is the value of the average consumer basket, and that this second limit of 40,000, where the second rate is applied, is changed to 66,000, which is the value of the average consumer basket. The government has rejected our amendment with an explanation that the government's determination to reach the overall planned financial effect, or savings, and we have not yet heard what these effects are. The previous law says that the expected effects of 60 billion dinars are at the level of three years. We have not been able to hear the total effects under this law to be saved in the Republic of Serbia's budget and says the savings are being achieved on the principle of solidarity. In this way, a higher burden will be borne by pensioners with pensions greater than the average pension. The proposed scale of pension cuts also overcome large social differences among pensioners in times of crisis. This last sentence is unacceptable to me. I don't know how the social differences between pensioners will be better reduced by a solution proposed by the government compared to our solution, which, however, takes into account both the real life and the needs of citizens, which is that with one pension, pensioners most often live alone, or often live alone, and even more often with someone in the community who doesn't work, and unfortunately they support it from their pension, which is that they don't tax at least the amount of a minimum consumer basket of 35,000, and that some extra luxury pension in Serbia is considered a pension of 66,000 dinars, what is the cost of a consumer basket. We believe that adopting our solution would contribute more to achieving solidarity and reducing social differences between pensioners at this time of crisis. We invite you to accept for these reasons our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12184	Thank you. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12185	Thank you. Article 3 provides for the understanding of how this State Lapot is calculated over pensioners and it is a member to be deleted for a number of reasons. So not only is it anti-constitutional, but it is against all the civilization achievements of the 21st century in Europe. I think the representative of the government sitting here, who should normally be protected by the microphone because he is very threatened when he speaks, should remember the '90s, when he was participating in power with a little longer hair and with some JUL, at the time the pensioners were left without a pension, of course, as he is now going to be, and then the dossal authority in the first few years returned that debt to the pensioners and managed to repay that debt, which, of course, will happen now. Unfortunately, and then and now it will be on the burden of taxpayers, because as they voted, so they will live. Any story about the non-constitutional privatisation is, to put it mildly, an illegal lie. Under the same privatisation law with a few minor changes until a few months ago, they ruled, or were involved in the government...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12186	Ambassador, please, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12187	I'm talking about the amendment to Article 3 right now, the coefficient of 0.25...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12188	Yes, article 3 is deleted and we've moved on to the Privatization Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12189	It was said here by the promoter that these are the reasons why there are no pensions, so now I'm going to prove that that's not true. It's something I didn't bring into this discussion. It's someone before me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12190	Thank you. You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12191	You took away a few seconds from me. Let me just finish the sentence. If he thought it was against the constitution, he should have started the initiative or sued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12192	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12193	Article 3, as well as all six members, are completely pointless and the DS considers that they should be deleted, i.e. that this law should be fully dissuaded which deprives pensioners of their earned pensions. In fact, there is a conflict of a political philosophy here, it's just been said, that pensions are a budget category and that's why we have a problem and that the budget has been emptied. Since this government has no knowledge and skills to fill the budget, we need to empty the pension fund. The pension fund was devastated in the '90s, I repeat, during the wars that were waged and the inflation that was carried out. In 2000, a dozen pensions were owed to pensioners. It was finally returned in years when the DS came to power and today we are in a situation where we have a situation to reduce pensions again, and thanks to the poor work of the government, a non-working economy, there is a danger that these small pensions are no longer paid. We think that this law is truly totally unacceptable, that this effort, which was obviously short, is in six points to judge our pensioners, shameless, and I really call upon all MPs to ask tonight in the voting day how much they will damage their neighbours if it is obviously not difficult for them, because I see that individuals are practically celebrating this opportunity to deny someone their income during the 40 years of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12194	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report for breach of the Rules of Procedure, 106 and Article 107. The previous two speakers, in my opinion, severely violated the Rules of Procedure by first jeopardizing the dignity of the National Assembly, secondly, under Article 107, an assessment concerning the private life of others is prohibited. Did anyone have long or short hair 10, 15 years ago... Ladies and gentlemen, I advertised an article. In 107 and 106, because the dignity of the National Assembly, and on the other hand, is marred, facts from the private life of others are presented. Whether someone wears long or short hair, it's strictly a private matter from the private life of a person, whether they're ministers, whether they're MPs. Now I could talk about who has shorter and longer hair, but I could also talk about who has a short mind. So that would be a fact of some faces' private life. So the MPs of the People's Party are provoking all the time. I have the understanding that the chairman has patience for opposition MPs, especially from the New Party, although I don't understand what's new.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12196	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12197	I'm saying New Party MPs are breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12198	Time, MP, for those minutes and a half, I've given you this break.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12199	Okay. In the end, if you were to talk about the private life of a person, I might ask, "Who gave you vineyards, Life?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12200	I didn't understand this last one at all. It's not a joke, but I didn't understand, you said incomprehensiblely, but as for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, don't throw away the chairman, I think we're one of the people here in the OR that's the hardest. Therefore, no member of 107 was injured by MEPs, explaining their amendments, expressing their views on the need to delete Article 3. The government doesn't have time anymore. You've spent the time that's scheduled for discussion. Since there are so many suggestions, it's very difficult to hold a session after all these hours. The People's MP Alexander Jovicic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12201	Thank you, Your Honor. It is truly absurd to hear from the amendment's promoter to talk about pensions and pension cuts. I have really one piece of information here that the former regime has been advocating pensioners to harm even the locals, to the harm of even those people who believed in the idea of the party and that the economy will finally come to life in our country and that it will find a job. Here you can see what that advocacy looked like, in 2008. - 5.8 billion, 2009 38 billion, 2010, in 39.4 billion, in 2011 41.4 billion, in 2012 44 billion. A total of 169 billion dinars for courting, for the purchase of elections, for the purchase of some false hope that you gave to the citizens of Serbia. For everything that's been waiting for the SNS, you can see clearly here, and that's 71 billion just interest on this borrowing you took to buy the election and to live another month in power. It's the same as if I were to ask the question of wonder if he could, for example, ask the question. in the magnificent, I apologize to the chairman, but must you know, on a magnificent pasture to build a building near the temple of St. Sava, for example from your means or from your credit? I believe you've been doing it out of your own resources, but I'm asking a question-- where did you get the money for when you had the salary you're accusing today of being big, 100,000 dinars? Here, I can't do that. I could possibly raise an expensive loan, but no one would give it to me, or if I robbed the state, like you had tenders in the military area. So it's a shame that you're talking about it. Sixty-nine billion you cost this country just because of the 2012 election. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12202	National MP Dragan Sutanovac has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12203	I recognized myself in the outpouring of lies and insolence from a young colleague who had just begun his life and was already talking about great things. You know, it's a long way from a white-tech salesman to an apartment owner. There's time, you'll get an apartment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12204	Ambassador, you must speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12205	Insults will not come to a solution, and the solution is not to accept this law. I believe that although you represent the interest of the political minority in Serbia here, obviously, since I do not believe that the majority supports the reduction of pensions and salaries, you are making a big mistake. You are also obliged by the Constitution to care for the poor in Serbia. If we say that we haven't cut social isolation in the budget, Minister Vulin, you don't need to cut it. After reducing pensions and wages, you will have much greater social needs, much greater needs for kitchens. You know I can't answer you right now. Don't throw it at me as I speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12206	Minister, don't throw MPs. The Rules of Procedure apply to everyone. You can't answer him, you can't throw him away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12207	You've taken my whole minute now. This is unrecorded. Ministers never win, and here we have a situation for the minister to throw away. It's where MPs used to throw their shoes at the chairman, and here the minister would shoot the MP. You can insult us all you want. I'm ready to show Mr. Jovičić the property situation, if he wants to, as soon as tomorrow, to guide him as far as possible. I don't have any problems, but pensions and wages can't be reduced to people who have earned it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12208	Time. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12209	Thank you. It's crazy to say a young man talks about big things. I'm talking big embezzlement here, and that's the big things that hit the citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, you said I was selling white technique. Yes, I am, and from a white-tech salesman at your age you can reach the apartment fair and square, but from the pick-up of the ramp and the driver to the pasture by St. Sava and the building, it can't be fair, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12210	Ambassador, speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12211	I will honestly continue to do my job and fight against such ones as you because I believe that Serbian citizens must have a decent life and we will all suffer together, they understand it well, and these difficult measures caused by your misdeeds, but in two years Serbia will be a decent place for life, a place where even a white-tech salesman will be able to buy an apartment in a fair and responsible manner. That couldn't have happened in your time. It could have been drivers, but not honest and honest, but drivers who became ministers overnight and big and important people in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12212	I'm closing a circle of replicas. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: Rules of Procedure. If it's an abuse, I'm shutting down the speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12213	For me, Article 107 is not a problem for anyone in Serbia who honestly and honestly does his job, this job can also be a ramp lifter, it can be a driver and a seller of white technique, a failure, it can be a waiter, whatever, but if you haven't done that job, it's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12214	Is this a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12215	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, so I feel offended, offended by my colleagues..
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12216	It's not the Parliament's dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12217	I'm sorry, I may have made a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12218	It can't be either 107 or 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12219	If it's not 107, it's 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12220	And maybe 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12221	No, no, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12222	It's 106. It's only about the agenda point. So it's not that either.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12223	It's 107th since it's already become...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12224	Ambassador, it's about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't know which member you wanted to advertise, you got up and we're done with it. Thank you very much. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12225	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow Members, this amendment is in line with the amendment to Article 2 which we have proposed. It is to establish other limits on the basis of which this law will apply, that instead of 25,000 lower limits of 35,000, which I repeat, by who knows which times the minimum consumer basket, and that this second limit from 40,000 would change to 66,000, which would mean, specifically in this amendment 31,000, that over this sum, the second rate of taxation is applied. Of course, it is a pity that there is no Minister Vujovic, I don't know if we can get answers from the other present minister, which the government states in an explanation for refusing this amendment, which is that accepting this amendment would not bring about that planned budget savings. We still don't know what that planned savings is. We haven't been able to hear that number, and we're going to be looking for the end of this debate, and also after that, the answer of the minister you're saving and how much savings it is in the next one, and now I don't know whether or not to speak for three years, is this law going to be worth more than three years, or to believe this optimism some fellow MPs are showing at the end of this debate, and they're talking about it going to last for two years. If it will take two years, I urge you once again to vote in favour of our amendment, which speaks of the validity of this law as going on for two years. I think it's very ugly that in this atmosphere I'm talking about a very difficult topic for our society. I think that we should all be very serious when talking and discussing indulging in the rights of the most vulnerable group in our society, these are pensioners, people who have worked their whole lives to earn their pension, and now the government is explaining the difficult moment, explaining the extraordinary situation, now reaching into their pocket. You can talk about the previous regime as guilty, we can go back to other times and look for the culprit there, but it won't give us a solution for the future. Please seriously consider our amendments that so-so mitigate this very difficult and rigid measure. Please think carefully about the next member, who I think is the key to making this law work in Serbia's legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12226	The word is made by the People's Messenger Zoran Jozic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12227	Thank you, President. I think someone here must have mixed up some grandmothers and frogs. As far as these amendments are concerned, about this law and the story of one being erased and the other looking for some changes, I don't think someone's been able to see things the best, or at least he didn't bother to see it the right way. What do I mean? Is there anyone who believes the SNS wants to cut salaries or pensions to the pensioners? Is that our will, is that something popular for any political option? Of course not, but there are reasons why we have to do it and the reasons lie, among other things, about some not so distant past. The president of one, I don't know now, this divided opposition, sometimes on 7 May 2010, says – at the end of 2010, I expect the first significant improvements in the standard of living of Serbian citizens, and then 28 May after 21 days, says – the first significant positive signs of improvement will be felt this year, and in 2011, I expect a higher growth in production and economy, and the expenditure of 5% can be expected in 2012 and 2013. What's good is that he won those about 5% and no longer in the election, so the citizens had no accident that the government continued to run the country and do what was done and that caused the pay cut and now pensions to our pensioners. 200,000 were promised in the 2008 campaign, 200,000 jobs, we got 450,000 fired workers, we lost 130,000 small and medium-sized enterprises, and then the state owed 7 billion euros, the internal debt totaled 2008, 2012 from 8,700 to 17,700, that's 9 billion. That's probably what someone's lying about, and statistics say that. Unemployment rate from 14 to 26.1%, gentlemen. What if there was a 14% unemployment rate left, what if we hadn't lost those 400 or 500,000 jobs, what if those 130,000 companies hadn't been shut down? Dozens of college people are out of work. With all this today, we wouldn't get into a situation to cut salaries and pensions. You look like a group that pushed a bus with some people into a break-in, so now it's a wonder how somebody's trying to get it out, how it's slow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12228	Thank you, Mr. Jozic. Members of the 4th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Peric and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12229	Thank you. Article 4 which we propose to delete reads – pension payments made in accordance with this law are considered final. It is not new to me that a number of MPs always have a very firm view of the subject that the law treats, and that it is easy to determine that they have not read it. That's relatively common, unfortunately. As is relatively common and to have a firm view of things that are either out of data, or to say completely conflicting things. This member of the law repeats - pension payments made in accordance with this law are considered final. Two things say to someone who can read the laws. The normist who worked knows this isn't constitutional. We can make whatever communication and campaign strategies you want, the final payments that are explained to the existing pensioners and those who, after the adoption of this law, will retire, show that this is unnecessary. Someone who's going to retire on January 15, 2015, there's no other law for him to get his pension, just this one. As much as I have regrets that we know this is unconstitutional, I have even more regrets being used here as an argument one quite conflicting thing when it comes to raising pensions. Pensions of 25,000 are increased pensions and I completely understand the argument to keep it, but it is contrary to saying that the increase is not good, because you use it as an argument to yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12230	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is from the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Vulin, you have been left alone in this government that is now being abandoned here. I thank you for your applause for the MPs of the Progressive Party. Here, to read only article four, which is truly an amazing member to me. In Article 4, the pension payments made under this law are considered final. Please, gentlemen, if we can find one person here, let that person come forward, who can in comparative practice show us where another member of this team has it. Please, this has to be erased. Dear gentlemen, what is the message sent by the Government in the contents of this Article 4. A bill of law? The government is sending a message that the state is one repressive force that can, by law, put your hand in your pocket and then tell you in article 4, this is finally. I put my hand in your pocket, took what it had, and there's no way it could be, look out, there's still, I'm thinking now, for example. This article would be understandable to me if the government had come, addressed the pensioners for example, said - gentlemen, the state needs a loan because we are in an unexplainable situation, but we will return that money to you when this situation is fixed, so that the pensioners, these gentlemen who do not speak out here today, say they are or are not. And like this, the state takes it away from them, and nothing happens to anyone. Please, against this proposal to vote right now tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12232	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is from the MP Vladeta Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12233	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ministers and dear colleagues, with all due respect to one of the motions of this amendment, I must express my suspicion of the sincerest intentions of these motionaries. The reasoning they gave states that they are calling for Article 88(1). The RS Constitution, and it is – guarantees the peaceful enjoyment of property and other property rights acquired under the law. It is true that these rights are acquired under the law, on the basis of the law, pensions are paid and the laws are passed precisely by this home and the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and, therefore, it is before us a law establishing how pensions are paid, more specifically by the temporary determination of how pensions are paid. Proposers that only 12 members went ahead in the same constitution would find a member of the 70th that said in attitude 2 – the Republic of Serbia is looking after the economic security of pensioners. Well, I'm asking now where were their hosts on the list, from their list, where they were when they increased unreal pensions in the public sector and thus threatened economic security, not just pensioners, but all citizens in the Republic of Serbia. I can understand the amendments submitted by respected colleagues Jerkov and Vukkovic, where funds are required to be refunded. I can also understand the amendments of the New Democratic Party or the Social Democratic Party which are required to raise that minimum limit from 25 to 35,000, but I cannot and will not understand that some amendments have the same number of members as some parties, or the same number of words as some parties have members, have their own representatives here, but it is probably the wrong decision of that list. And as the Serbian woman put it, two bad men killed Milos.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12234	The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12235	Thank you, Your Honor. Please pay attention, I will read to you, you have heard what the proposed Article 4 read and I will read to you the proposal that we gave that article 4 should read – pension payments made in accordance with this law are considered temporary, and the amount of pension cuts becomes a debt of RS to pensioners. The debt referred to in Article 1 shall be due for payment on 1 January 2018, and the way in which the debt is settled closer shall be governed in accordance with the rules governing the public debt of the RS. The government has not accepted this amendment. The government said - the amendment is rejected for the reason that it has just been suggested that the reduction of the temporary character. I'm asking a question, not by adopting an amendment that erases the deadline, where's the temporary? The sustainability of this law is being introduced. It says - of a temporary character, because there is a particularly important public interest to see in the need to preserve the stability of the state's economic system in the context of the financial crisis, to settle the obligations of the state and insurance, not to disturb the performance of all state functions and tasks. So this law is not passed in so-called. a regular situation, but in a special, irregular, so-called situation where the state needs fast, intervention measures to remove the negative effects of the financial crisis, by providing funds to overcome them. I have to take advantage of this opportunity to read you the explanation, if you haven't watched, which we have provided by proposing this amendment - pension rights are rights that are acquired and implemented depending on the length of investment and the size of the base on which the contributions are paid, with pension insurance rights being obtained, granted and used under conditions and in a manner prescribed by the law on pension and disability insurance. Therefore, pension rights do not merely imply the right to be paid to someone, but to be paid in a certain amount, depending on how long and in what amount the pensioner was obliged to make contributions during his working life. Since he has fulfilled his obligation, he now has the right to have his pension paid in the amount determined on the basis of what the fund was paying. The way in which pensions are determined is prescribed by the said law, and can only be permanently and finally changed on the basis of that law. We've heard examples here that in some countries pension cuts have produced effects, but we haven't heard all the data. In Romania, the Constitutional Court declared pension cuts unconstitutional and the measure could not be applied. In other countries where pensions have been reduced, they have been reduced linearly, meaning to all pensioners by the same amount. Our government wanted to avoid that solution to mitigate the effects of this measure on those pensioners who receive less than 25,000. It probably does seem just and socially responsible. The government is in line with this law, I was speaking something in the principle debate about it, not using any economic language at all when it wrote the reasoning of this law, but a legal text in which it speaks, it comes from the Constitution, Article 1, which says that Serbia is the state in which the principle of social justice is governed, that it comes from the principle of solidarity and that this measure is a proportionate measure to achieve a legitimate goal. (President: I thank Mr. Djurisic, time is up. ) What time?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12237	You had two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12238	The time of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12239	There's no more time. I received a notice that you only had two minutes and you spoke for a total of four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12240	I had, Mr. Chairman, four more amendments 11 minutes ago, checked in the system. I couldn't have talked that much. I've been saving myself for this amendment, because this is the key thing. If this amendment is not accepted, this law will fall to you in the Constitutional Court and I will tell you why it will fall in the Constitutional Court. I'm really going to start keeping track of myself, because every time I disappear in a magical way for a few minutes, Mr. Chairman. Please think carefully about accepting this amendment. The amendment will allow the law to survive the court, both in Serbia's Constitutional Court and in Strasbourg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12241	I'm sorry, I'd very much like to give it to you, but according to the system, you only had two more minutes. The word is made by MP Branka Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12242	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr Minister, I will refer to this amendment, to Article 4. Proposal for a law on temporary retirement arrangements. The proposed amendment lists practically two things. First, to pay out pensions made in accordance with this law are considered temporary and that the amount of pension cuts is considered a debt of the Republic of Serbia towards pensioners. In my opinion, Article 4 of this bill is very clear. It is from the very name of the law, i.e. the bill of law, that it is clearly a measure of temporary character, and its duration is clearly defined in the provision of Article 1 of this Act, i.e. the Law proposal. In this regard, I do not believe that there is a need to burden this law and in Article 4 to state the duration of this measure again, because what we learn as lawyers in the first year of the university in the course of legal normisation is that the laws that are passed must be clear, precise, clear for interpretation and not be burdened with excessive, concise provisions. The second part of this amendment actually speaks of the amount of reduced pensions being considered a debt of the Republic of Serbia towards pensioners. In my view, it is not entirely in place because I believe that the Government, as a proposer of this law, would certainly use the word "loan", "loan", "temporary separation with a certain period of return" and so on, and so on, that there was a place for such a thing at all, or a place for such normisation. The previous regime has led the state of Serbia to this state that we are practically at the edge of bankruptcy and the only way for Serbia to save that bankruptcy is this and this measure. It is also being taken to protect these acquired pensioners' pension rights, as they would practically be disabled from paying them in full, in a very recent period. In my opinion, reading the explanation of such an amendment, there are very untasty moments where, for example, it says - the level of pensions cannot be a voluntary reduction because the government is unable to collect taxes and resolve deficits. Of course, the government did not make this decision on its own. She did what the law allows her to do, which falls under her jurisdiction, which is to pass the bill and give it to this National Assembly for consideration and adoption. It is up to us, MPs, to determine whether such a bill has the basis for its being or not. So whether we vote it or not. Otherwise, in the last five months, I want to say and repeat that this government has shown its ability to collect taxes, especially from untouchable ones, created as such by the former regime, which is what Prime Minister Vukic spoke of in this home the other day. Also in this explanation, it states that this is the way to fill the crater in the budget of the incompetent government. Gentlemen, the crater doesn't come from yesterday. The crater was produced continuously between 2000 and 2012. It is said of inconceivable damage through the loss of court proceedings that possibly pensioners would have started in the event of a bill like this, and I ask – do those representatives of the former regime want to tell us that the judiciary, as it has since 2009, is still under their control, or do they want us to be told that we should learn from their mistakes and that they themselves had their own footings when they illegally and without reason left thousands of judges and judges without a job, and they sued the state of Serbia and now the state of Serbia is losing these disputes? So, just like you and such pensioners, according to election results with the last extraordinary parliamentary elections, have shown and said no to the policy of the previous regime, despite the fact that they did not reduce their pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12243	I thank Mrs. Jankovic. The People's Parliament of Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12244	Thank you, Chairman. I'm going to try to put in my choice of words an explanation for the rejection of this amendment, so as not to cause a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to say that the creativity of individual opposition MPs, and so are the proposings of this and these amendments in writing the arguments are extremely large and inspired by the idea of always and for everything being against, although there is no valid argument or valid explanation. We are adopting this law today because we must and because we must preserve the substance that has been bitten and almost destroyed, not because it has come to us from a pure whim to reduce someone's wages and pensions. None of us are happy about this kind of measure, but as responsible people, we are aware that we have to amputate our finger if we want to keep our hand. We are also aware that this law corrects the mistakes of previous governments, which were also the proposings of these amendments and which ultimately led us to this situation where we are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12245	Thank you. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12246	Article 5 is another proof of the uncertainty of the motionor, who is not enough to write such a pointless Article 4 where pension payments are considered final, but increases it in Article 5 by saying again – pension payments in the manner set out in Article 5. 2nd and 3th respectively, as referred to in Article 4. – apply to both found and future pensioners. That's genius. It's really one clear proof of how insecure there is with whoever had to write this argument and this bill, and he knows he's going to fall before the Constitutional Court, so he's been trying out of these few members to rock himself. Well, maybe someone's gonna be scared of this kind of solution. The Constitutional Court has its own clear jurisdiction and I think there are still people there who can respond to what is the role that this high judicial authority has. At the end of this debate once again, it is of course a great difficulty for Serbia's budget to direct more than 250 billion dinars from the pension fund budget and pension payments, but the problem is not solved in the way it was proposed here. No one, not even to this outgoing government in the resignation, has given the right to execute the state's laptop on the pensioners. I'm surprised we didn't hear the reaction from that part of the MP. Finally, of course, Mr Pavicevic and I will not stay for the vote on these amendments, because it is simply a rational man who is absolutely clear what is going to happen, and also because of some who, by their presence in this honorable home, are insulting Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12247	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12248	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, this will be recorded as a sad day in Serbian parliamentaryism when most have tried to convince Serbian citizens with smiles that the former government is guilty because it will be responsible for the work of this incompetent government, which has been experimenting on the lives of Serbian citizens for two years. Article 5 says – this law will apply to both found and future beneficiaries of pensions. This law will treat generations, all those who have worked for many years to have a pension, but also those who work today. I am sure that he will be remembered as one of the sad days of Serbian parliamentarianism, and I guarantee you, if not in our Constitutional Court that I believe is completely independent, then surely in Strasbourg he will fall, and then it will cost the citizens of Serbia even more money, and only then will we enter a spiral of disaster that may happen to us. That is why I invite you honourable fellow MPs to take advantage of your personal conscience and return to your places of the high forehead, so that you will not support a reduction of neither pension nor salary, because it is indeed a great but great sadness for all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12249	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. I apologize Mr Mirko Krlic, Vladimir Djukanovic, there is no more time for your parliamentary group. Only National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, you have time for the head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12250	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the government of Aleksandar Vukic is the only government in Serbia's recent political history that has a clear plan to get Serbia out of the crisis. We were the only party who didn't deceive the people in the election campaign and in the election campaign we talked one thing, and then when we educated the government, we did something else. We also told the people in the 2014 pre-election campaign that Serbia is expected to have heavy measures, as the difficult economic situation can only be cured by difficult measures. Here we have been taught lessons by people who are constantly waving their hand, threatening with a finger, and on one of these hands is a watch worth 15 or 20,000 euros. I doubt that watch can be bought from the minister's salary. They gave us lessons from people about what Alexander Vukic said at the Pinky Hall, what he said in this, what he said on that TV show. Now I'm going to use some time to tell you what the former regime said in 2000. Perhaps colleagues in the former regime forgot that there was once a political organisation called DOS, which in 2000, which promised the following, says -- this document, which we sign with full responsibility, undertakes to restore citizens' trust in the state, root out corruption in administrative and public institutions, and together move towards comprehensive reforms with the goal of re-taken Serbia's equal place in the community of European states. The state must no longer be, be careful whether it was such a country from 2000 to 2012? The state must no longer be the protector of the unemployed, criminals and cover for the personal wealth of state and party officials. Was Serbia such a state from 2000 to 2012? Is it called keeping pre-election promises? Instead, he says, we will build a country that protects the poor and gives strong encouragement to those who create and the frames are to initiate entrepreneurial ventures and invest, save and learn and successfully develop our homeland. Furthermore, what they will do when they come to power, among other things, radical economic reform, including the growth of revenues based on sales tax and excise duties on products that the state has deliberately pushed into the black economy area today. Cigarettes, coffee, gasoline - from 2000 to 2012 absolutely nothing was done to curb the gray economy. In five months, the government of Alexander Vukic has done more than all DOS governments in 12 years. It's a statistic that no one can take down. Then he says, watch this -- they promised in 2000, rationalising public administration through the abolition of unnecessary ministries, state chambers of commerce and other types of inefficient public spending, introducing new priorities and strict discipline in spending budgets, etc., etc. Today they tell us about how to eliminate large agencies, cost a lot, directors have 300,000 dinar salaries, we ask them – so who formed those agencies. Did you promise in 2000 that the abolition of all that is unnecessary, instead of abolishing you did all this and saying guilty Alexander Vukic, is the fault of the Serbian Progressive Party. In 2007, what did you promise? You had a "Democratic Party for a Better Life" password. He says so -- those who have acquired 200,000-euro apartments fairly, carry 15,000-euro watches, what they promised. We want to remove obstacles that make it impossible for people to develop their talents and use their potentials. Obstructions such as poverty, unemployment, low education, irresponsibility, violence, crime, corruption, monopoly and privileges, etc. We've had all this for 12 years of their rule and corruption and crime and monopoly, lawlessness and poverty, everything they've promised, they've trampled everything. Do you remember in 2004 what they said when Serbia enters the European Union? Just vote for us, we're going in 2007. So in the 2008 elections – vote for us we enter safely in 2012. So in 2011, they passed the Law on the financing of political activities that are being criticised today, because they thought they were going to win the elections in 2012, so it turned out that the law was in favour of those who thought they were going to win the Serbian Progressive Parties and now that they lost the elections, we are not doing well with the Law on financing political activities. What do I mean? If anyone promised Serbian citizens in the pre-election campaign one thing, and after that he did another, it was the parties of the former regime. The Serbian Progressive Party has never promised that in 2014, in 2015 it will be like this, no, it will be difficult for us. But what I'm saying is, those who today present themselves as protectors of the interests of workers, pensioners, poor, students, etc. They did everything in 12 years their rule, 14 years their rule in Vojvodina, to impoverish both workers and pensioners and peasants and students, etc. Today they support student strikes. So who brought the Law of Higher Education? Who said it was reform law? Who forced the students into large scholarships? Who today does everything the opposite of what he did when he was in power? The only government that has a clear plan to get out of the crisis is the government run by the Serbian Progressive Party. Our people say: an angry grass is placed on an angry wound. This is the angry grass that the Government of the Republic puts on severe wounds that it didn't cause, which it has to heal, and we treat them because there's no other solution. Don't tell me that only former regime MPs have parents who are retired, that only former regime MPs have children, that only former regime MPs take care of the people. I have a mother who's retired, and I have kids and I fight for their future, but I know those kids don't have a future if there's a policy going on in this country for 12 years. Put yourself in charge, give me what you didn't earn just to win the election, and I need the election to win, so I can get rich and get an illegal way to get everything I've got right now. Today they're talking about the Law on the Investigation of the Origin of Assets. No problem, let the law be passed, but then let's see how it's possible that some province officials have 35 apartments in Novi Sad? One of them got drunk, sat in a cab, cabed him all night driving around New Sad because he didn't know how to hit the apartment he lives in. There's another 34 next to that one. So other solutions than these are gone. You heard some of them. Until the law enters the procedure, the Retirement Act is no good. Have you heard what they say today – yes, pensions should be reduced, but the base should not be 25,000 but 35,000 dinars. What does that mean? We don't have a plan, we don't have any concept, just get something from the government of Alexander Vukic, we're automatically against it. The policy was assessed by Serbian citizens in March 2014 by barely crossing the censorship and all the talk of who has the legitimacy to implement such a policy is over. The legitimacy for this policy has been taken over by the SNS, and we are convinced that this policy will be pushed through to the end and we have deliberately proposed an amendment that will take the date of 2017 because we believe not only in this government, we believe in our economy, we believe in our people, that before December 2017 we will be able to stop applying these painful measures by curbing crime, corruption, raise the level of industrial production and finally, and before that famous December 2017, we will make Serbia a normal and decent state.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12251	I thank Mr. Martinovic. As per the amendment, MP Dejan Nikolic reported. Your task force has four minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 40,000 years of human language, and I have no say today to describe my predecessor's performance. It's not a history of a field where the SRS can get DS. Imagine if we could make a statement by Alexander Vukic while he was a Serbian radical, wearing a T-shirt and banging his foot...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12253	Mr. Nikolic, please. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: What are you shutting down? Don't yell from the scene, you've been yelling at the chairman all day. We can't let a MP act like that. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: give him back to speak.) Mr Sutanovac, you are not his head of Parliament, you are not his lawyer, please allow the MP to speak to the chairman. Mr. Nikolic, I beg you, you have come to the amendment, you have the time of the parliamentary group, you speak as the amendment promoter, and I ask you to speak according to the amendment. You're one of the amendment's proposings. Mr. Martinovic used the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group and also spoke about the amendment. (Dejan Nikolic, from the post: I also use the time of the authorised representative. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: return to him to speak according to the amendment. Mr. Sutanovac, please, you're used to, as military minister, yelling at your subordinates, making noises, doing what you're doing. I ask you not to do this in the National Assembly. Mr. Sutanovac, I've been warning you for days not to throw away. I'm asking you not to do that. I don't mind you doing that. We'll go out after the session in the hallway, you shout all you want at me, but don't do it in this high house. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12254	If you could give me one thing my predecessor said about the amendment and the laws, I'd stick to the agenda. But it's not my manners, so I'll stick to the agenda, because we're here because of the cuts in salaries and pensions of public sector workers and pensioners. So DS has done everything she can and what the Rules of Procedure allows. We have submitted 20 amendments, 19 amendments have been read – deleted, for several reasons. The first is because we think it should be deleted. The second is that you accidentally press the bells as you vote and by mistake adopt one of our amendments, the rebalancing and these laws will become groundless, we will stop the reduction of wages and pensions and we will succeed. Since I believe that this will not happen, the reduction in wages and pensions has been on the move since 1 November. So, DS MPs and I personally believe that reducing workers' salaries in the public sector and reducing pensions by 680,000 pensioners is a disastrous measure. A series of bad moves, the incompetence of this government, has alone led to this in the last two and a half years that today must reduce wages and pensions. We have proven that the level of foreign direct investment is higher. You shouldn't cut wages and pensions. But foreign direct investment, the level is very low, it's not high, it has no ability, and that's why you're cutting wages and pensions. For two and a half years, we've been hearing about reforms in public enterprises. The last promise was in October 2013, the promise passed a year ago. Instead, we have a new budget debt of over 400m euros, a figure that is greater than savings, which will result in a reduction in wages and pensions and lead to citizens working in the public sector, pensioners, starting their fight with existence as of 1 November. But these bad measures will give disastrous effects in future time. I would like to make mistakes, but I am not wrong, and surely these measures will lead to the layoff of workers in production, because reduced wages and pensions will lead to less demand, less demand for less production, which will produce a reduction of wages in production and certainly new layoffs in this sector. For this reason, the DS considers these measures disastrous and will not vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12255	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica of the party's name and name, spoke. (Dejan Nikolic, from town: Which party did I mention? Oh, yeah, radicals. Mr. Nikolic, you mentioned the name of the party president. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12256	The disaster, Mr. Chairman, is the state of public finances they left us. The disaster is the eclipse and darkness of the duties they have worked year after year. It's a public debt disaster. A disaster of unfortunate privatisations and 400,000 workers that you have led to the brink of collapse on the state register and on public cuisine. The disaster is that you represent measures that have succeeded in half of Europe that will not succeed in Serbia. We had the courage, the honesty and the cheek to say even when we were wrong, and then when we belonged to other parties. But the problem with you is that in the same closet you have shirts with Boris Tadic and with the character Dragan Gilas and with the character Pajtic, and I believe you're already making the next shirt, you just don't know what kind of guy to put on that shirt. And you don't know what shirt you're going to wear in the morning. And you don't know how to tell these people in Serbia who are looking at all this -- sorry, sorry we ruined you, sorry we over-indebted you, sorry we took your future, sorry we used every privatization for our own personal wealth, that in 10 years, the authorities made us richer, or former government representatives getting richer and the citizens were getting poorer. That's the problem, you can't look reality in the eye. You can't say - I'm sorry. No, but now you want to work against your country again, put the weight back on the public finances, get some populist stuff back on. What plan and program did you say? Pay off the tycoon, the same ones you shouldn't even mention the name, let alone charge them taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12257	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. Mr. Sutanovac, please allow me to read the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. (Dejan Nikolic, from town: Replica. Mr. Nikolic, you called at some point. But I listened very carefully to Mr. Babic's exposure. At no time did he mention DS or the party president. (Dejan Nikolic, from town: Pajtic. If he'd done it... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place, how is it not? Three presidents mentioned both DS and Tadic. I haven't heard any names, believe me. Here, I'll examine the stenogram, but I haven't heard the name of the party president. I'll check and you'll get time for this amendment if that's true. I was just listening very carefully. He never mentioned DS once. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić have submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member 6. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. In the meantime, I'll see if this is exactly what you said, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12258	Dear Chairman, this amendment wanted to oblige the government to report to the Assembly on the application of this law, as we did in the previous law. Of course, the government refused, but I would like to call once again on the ruling majority to take advantage of the opportunities given to us by the Rules of Procedure and to more often ask the Government to report on the application of this law and on many other laws. I want to say something at the end of this discussion that ends in a really ugly atmosphere, but it's probably because the ruling majority has no arguments to defend the adoption of this law, so they reach for insults that are not worthy of this parliament, and are not at any level worthy of a Serbian bar. We didn't want any part of it today. In every possible way, we avoided participating in each other's accusations, but we see that there is no end to it and that obviously everything this government can't do will be the fault of the former regime. I want to ask you what the former regime is, since the prime minister said he was the prime minister for only five months. Well, he's probably referring to the Ivica Dacic and Alexander Vukic's regime as the first vice president of the government. Is it the former regime or is it the former regime from 2000 to 2012 or are we going to talk about the former 1990s regime, when MPs, some of the MPs who are still in the ruling majority today, advocated the Karlovac-Virovica border?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12259	Time's up, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12260	We can accept responsibility... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12261	Thank you. Mr. Djurishic, you haven't noticed, the last few sentences have run out of time. I turned it off for two minutes and 15 seconds. National MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12262	I'm also advertising a member of 103 and a member of 107. First, the predecessor didn't even talk about the amendment. The second thing, he compared the congregation to the bar. I would really ask you now to react to such things when such a person insults Parliament's dignity and all of us here, and he said that we somehow insulted them, even though his entire speech was extremely offensive to our MP group. You know, if someone can't defend themselves in a normal way with some argument, and the fact that someone's destroyed our economy and that's why pensions and wages are being reduced today and that we're being forced to do something like this today, because we're paying for their incredible government, where you've increased people's pensions without any real basis, it would really be a turn to react, because this isn't a pub, this is where they should be discussed in a normal way, and it seems to me the opposite side doesn't want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12263	I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. As the MPs were witnesses, when the MP began to insult me, I turned off the microphone, so I reacted in time. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: No. I thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. ) Mr. Babiæ, I have an obligation before fulfilling my obligation to Mr. Nikolic who had the right to replicate your exposure. After that, you'll get the word. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We in parliament are asking legitimate questions that require of us citizens to ask the government, because they have been in awe since 1 November, a struggle for existence. What we get from the ruling majority is insults and curses of the most terrestrial species that I cannot even pronounce in parliament. For two and a half years, we've been hearing that the previous, previous, previous government is guilty of economic downturn, God for floods, and international and domestic traitors are provoking government collapse instead of admitting that you're choking on your own autocracy. I know the technique that a hundred times a told lie becomes true, but a thousand times to tell the stone it's a bird, it's never going to fly. After you, the stone on the stone will not remain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12265	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. A replica was reported by the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12266	The definition of the former regime that did not leave a stone on a rock in Serbia, but did not leave a stone, even that, are those people who sold land in Vojvodina for money from drug trafficking, Saric, Milet Jerkovic and represented it as a direct foreign investment, the same ones who traded and co-operated with people from whom all normal people in every normal state turn their heads. You have investments when the tycoon sells its assets. You have investments when suitcases of dirty money are laundered with property, hotels, orans and fields in Vojvodina. The former regime is the regime that has raised unemployment to 26% in four years from 13 years. The former regime is the regime that left 400,000 people out of work while building his own villas in the pastures of Vrakar. The former regime is the regime that raised the debt from 29.2% in four years to 60%. The former regime is the regime that broke that debt, gave it to those citizens who are now calling, and I am sure that, as there are people in Serbia who are tearing up and disgusting their membership in the DS, that they don't want to know the number of phones if it's included in any committee. It's a former regime that forces us to take this kind of measure so we can survive.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12267	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12268	I'll re-apply to article 107. You had to react. A shorttime speaker told all of us that famous Goebbels' wing, that we are handling it – a hundred times a lie becomes true. I personally and anyone from the SNS won't let anyone compare us to those Nazis. It's a really scary insult and you had to react. That if they're used to acting like that and telling us about "Potemkin's Villages", and the state's going down, it's really something that was a feature of their regime, but it doesn't occur to us to act like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12269	I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. I apologize to the MPs. You're very loud and I hear you all, but some MPs can't hear because there's noise in the hall, and if there's a word missing, I apologize in advance. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12270	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I will use the time that belongs to the head of the SPS parliamentary bench. Of course, I'm not going to talk about the past, and I'm not going to talk about what happened in the past years behind us, because I think that in some way we all need to learn from the past, that we need to affirm from the past what was good, but we all need to do together what the government does to the proposals that we're talking about today, which is that we realistically look at the present and try together to build the foundations of some new future. Regardless of how the debate is over and how the debate ends today, I really believe that we have had one quality debate and that we will have the broadest possible support in the Republic Parliament and one serious consensus on the important issues that we have discussed today. This is not a crisis of the current government of the Republic of Serbia. This is a crisis that comes years back and culminates. The state of public finances in Serbia is a matter of state for us, and this is a question to reach, as far as possible, the social consensus of all relevant political actors on the political scene of Serbia. The state of public finances and the crisis in public finances, unfortunately, can also endanger the realisation of those major and important state objectives. That is why we as a parliamentary club, I will say this once again, we fully support the objective of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is to stabilise public finances in the long term. Of course, that's what we were talking about today, it's not possible and it's not realistic results to feel right now and now, but in a long-term sense yes. Budget and budget rebalancing are something that needs to ensure life in Serbia, that life in Serbia can work and that all other laws can work. If we have an unreal budget, we seem to have an unreal life. Repeat what we said during yesterday's debate, we believe, looking at the budget rebalancing, looking at a set of accompanying laws that we talked about during today and yesterday, that there is neither more socially fair nor fairer or more realistic proposal at this point. Again, it is our opinion that at this point there were two alternatives, two directions. One direction, in the right sense, can be defined as a list of good wishes, and that is something that, in the long term or in the short term, to be precise, by the end of 2016 or by the beginning of 2017, would lead us to bankruptcy, a financial collapse and another goal, another alternative is something that is necessary, necessity, inevitability, reality, which is the continuation of essential reform processes in Serbia. As a responsible party, as a party that wants to share the value of this government of the Republic of Serbia, primarily because of the responsibility we have towards the citizens all together, we always accept that real path that is in Serbia's interest and in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. We view the proposals we talked about today as a serious, responsible, determined and realistic approach by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Today and during yesterday's day, the main news was that wages or pensions were cut in Serbia, but that is not the essence of what we talked about today in the republican parliament. We also talked during today and during yesterday's debate about measures that are a rescue for the Serbian economy. We talked about something that represents and what is the future and Serbia and about the future of each Serbian citizen. We will repeat again, Serbia must and Serbia should reform itself and must continue essential and reform processes, and that includes both bold and determined economic moves, but this includes both difficult and painful political decisions, but these decisions lead to the recovery of the Serbian economy and these decisions lead to new jobs and new employment, if we want modern, strong and strong Serbia, which we all hope are behind. It is important that the government has recognised through these proposals what are the basic segments of the budget deficit, which is financial discipline, control and collection, the fight against the gray economy, the public enterprise. Today, there was talk of "Serbiagas" even though it was not, among other things, a central topic. We have said several times – we advocate that public enterprises are more efficient, cheaper, but must always ensure a minimum for socially responsible functioning. Of course, we are for the fundamental reform of the public sector and strengthening the private sector, because the private sector is the future. It is good that the government has seen another segment of the budget deficit, which is that the privatisation and restructuring process must be completed. By strengthening the credibility of public finances, and we are convinced that these proposals we talked about today and yesterday are going in that direction, we will also strengthen business activity and investment and, we are convinced, create new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12271	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic and Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12272	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, I see that at the end of the day some have become funny, but I think most Serbian citizens find this extremely sad. As of 1 November this year, Serbia will be the country with the highest average wages in Europe, with the lowest average pensions in Europe. Serbia will be a country in the tail of Europe's development and certainly, a country that shows that it has no government, no knowledge, no strength to come out of the crisis. Today's discussion shows a great anxiety among the majority who apparently realizes that these measures have been extorted because we don't have a government that can get us out of the crisis, and the desire is to transfer the whole burden to some past tense time, forgetting that for almost two and a half years the government has been running the same coalition, this time led by a prime minister who obviously can't do the job. If the government had fulfilled its promises, if Serbia had received those factories that were promised, these investments, would have increased pensions and salaries here today, more money would be spent on health care, on education, today less on strike in Serbia. Unfortunately, for all of us together this decision to make these two laws will be disastrous and I believe, I will be extremely sorry that this will not end here in parliament, but I am sure, at the Constitutional Court, probably in Strasbourg, and very possibly even on the street. I believe that the unions in Serbia know...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12273	Don't mention the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12274	I believe that the unions in Serbia are watching these days...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12275	You're out of time. You've been talking for ten seconds. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12276	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ministers, the SNS took the responsibility of doing power not on the street, not by burning down this building of the Assembly, and when we had in front of the Parliament of 100,000 dissatisfied, unhappy, eager changes brought by the SNS and brought by both 5 February and 16 April 2011, our young men, led by my colleague Aleksandar Jovicic, moved the last plastic bottle from the streets of Belgrade. There is no cigarette, no broken window, because we think that the change of government is being done in the polls and the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are not the ones who, with 6% of power, are scrambling MPs in Novi Sad. We are not those who, with 6% of government, continue to devastate a large, beautiful, perhaps the most beautiful part of Serbia, will forgive me my Shumadins, which is Vojvodina, holding the province's MPs under lock and key or blackmailing them or buying them. It's not the SNS, it's the other one that's in the head and in the pre-election campaign, like in Borko's head, Stefanovic's Ukrainian script, Bosnian scenario, demolition, blood, just so they can build another building on Vrakar, just so they can be even richer. Mr. Chairman, at the very least, you had to warn at the very least. This National Assembly was burned once and never again, this National Assembly is an engine and a change generator, this National Assembly is a reflection of the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and not that those who so regret the armored cars, expensive bills, even more expensive watches, for even more expensive apartments, for what the government had brought them, and during the time Serbian citizens were squirming and becoming poorer and poorer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12277	Thank you, Mr. Babic. Mr. Babico, you're a witness to my reaction to such a spoken word. The only thing you're right about is that something deserves a warning, but Mr. Sutanovac has been trying to provoke the chairman to give him a warning all day long. We didn't want to react that way. Thank you. What? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place, did you mention me? I'm looking for a replica. You, me as chairman. You have no right to reply to what the chairman says. The word is from the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the respected Prime Minister in the resignation, I will try once again, one last time tonight to convince the People's MPs of the Serbian Parliament to vote against the bill that envisions reducing pensions to our pensioners. Here it is said today, government representatives mentioned, MPs of the advanced party also, that there are a huge number of public sector employees who don't even come to work. On the Finance Committee yesterday, Mr Babic said, I was present, that on average a man in the public sector works two and a half hours of eight scheduled hours. My expectation, gentlemen, was that such surpluses in the public sector should be recorded by name and last name. Let's see who's working for half an hour, who's who's working for an hour, who's that person who doesn't come to work at all, who's in the public sector? Instead of this kind of records, what did we have today and what did we have two days ago when we started the debate? We have a proposal to illegally reduce pensions to our pensioners. Gentlemen, pensions are acquired right. He can't touch his pension. Whoever touches the acquired right, which the government is touching into retirement, the government is touching the rule of law and the government is violating the fundamental principles of justice and justice of respected gentlemen. It is these principles of justice and justice that violates the government led today by Mr. Alexander Vukic. That's why I'm calling on you to vote against the bill on reducing pensions to our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12279	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, with one request, do not mention Mr Pavicevic's name as he mentioned yours. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12280	Mr. Becic, I think we're free people. If you're gonna give me what I have to say, I'm not gonna say it. I'll say what I think. So, please, these 15 seconds I've replicated to you not to count in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12281	Mr. Granny, you can't replicate the chairman. Here, it was just a request, I'm not saying you have to do it like that. Here, that's the very explanation that you have the basis for the replica, because your name is mentioned. Here you go, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12282	Everything I said on yesterday's Finance Committee, I see someone didn't want to understand. I believe he has the capacity to understand, but he didn't want to understand. Many missed opportunities, many good, quality trains passed through this Balkan, Belgrade, Serbian station. When it comes to the Brussels Agreement, such criticisms have been rejected from the same side. They said why, how? It could have been better. It could have been better, but many opportunities were missed, 2004, 2006, 2008 and 2011. It's amazing what the previous speaker says, even though the water, not to our throats, not to our mouths, not to our noses, to our foreheads, we sink in that water, we drown, and he says, "Stay still, stay under the water, you can last a year and two and three, and you don't need air." It is a shameful policy of some new principles, righteousness, or not justice. This kind of policy has been passed through these laws both in time in Estonia and Latvia, and in Lithuania, and in Greece, and in Portugal, and in Spain, and in Slovenia, and in Romania and everywhere has succeeded, but you do not want a medicine that could in 2009 that you were capable and ready. That you were brave, that you were more guided by a policy that is sustainable and real and good for citizens, and less for analysts who have said what is good and on what will grow ratings, and on what they will fall. In 2009, this drug could have been bitter, but a small cure and would have cured our public finances, in 2011, it had to be a strong pill, in 2014 because of the missed opportunities and because of the financial situation in the public finances left by the former regime, because of the lack of knowledge, irresponsibility we now have to give and inject, but I know that we will survive and that we will live in the coming years better.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12283	The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Veroljub Arsic. You have five minutes and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12284	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when it comes to these amendments, the problem is that I don't trust them. I don't believe in their honesty, I don't believe in what they're saying, I don't even believe in these criticisms that refer to the SNS. There are still two ministers, so I ask them if there would have been a reduction in public sector wages and a reduction in pensions if it hadn't been for the Agrobank affair and the Vojvodina Development Bank, a billion euros? We need to save on pensions for two and a half years to pay for that damage. I ask them would there be these laws if they didn't just pay off the $10 billion interest for 2014, interest on loans that didn't come from this government, and neither did the previous one? Why don't I trust them? Because now they're crying and crying over the fate of pensioners and public sector employees, whom I'm really sorry and it's really hard to pass these laws, but how can I trust them? When they turn behind them, they will see 400,000 people who have lost their jobs during their government. Would we pass those laws if those 400,000 people worked today? I don't believe them because when the man behind them, the path they passed, will see closed IMT, IMR, "dragon", "Record", "Livnica", The Meat Industry of Pogorec, and not to count further, there is no time in five minutes. It's a wasteland, a desert. If they had remained in power, not only would Serbia not remain a stone on a stone, there would be no dust or ashes left. These are the results of their government. Now those who are responsible for all this bad things that are happening to us are trying to teach us how to save Serbia. I also asked 2009, 2010, 2011 – who will and how will return these loans that you are raising so unfeelingly? It's hard for that government that has to do it. Now it must be the government of Alexander Vukic. You certainly would never. Until the end, you'd have to sell Telecom to sell the Elektroprivreda of Serbia to buy a little power and then a perverse one. That's why I don't trust the applicants of these amendments. That's why I don't trust their, let me say, false tears, their concerns. Here, I'm not saying this is going to be easy for those who are going to come under this bill, but what's left for 400,000 people without a job? What do they have? They don't have anything. Four hundred families you literally drove from work to the street. Where did you get to be trusted? Who more can trust you? You're talking about who did what while the opposition was. I agree, but let's measure who's doing what he's doing while he's in power and he's essentially wondering what he's doing while he's in power. You had a knife and a cake at your place. You had all the power of this world. The result of your authority is nothing but desert, desert and nothing left. This government of Alexander Vukic, supported by the SNS, has only one thing left, which is that much is done, that every minister is sacrificed a lot, that all this damage that you have done is removed as soon as possible and that these laws are put out of force as soon as possible. Don't swear on foreign investments anymore, when you sell "Maxie" Delese and show those two billion euros as an investment. Investments are factories, but open, which work, and your investments are closed, without workers on the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12285	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Dejan Radenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12286	Thank you, Vice President, how many more minutes does our parliamentary group have?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12287	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12288	Eight minutes. Thank you. Regarding the amendment of counterpart Pavicevic, who came out unfortunately, I cannot understand that he is talking about firing workers, so to speak. We also talked in principle about not being able to just cut the number of workers and the number of employees without serious and detailed analysis. When we do it, of course it will be a period in which we need to change everything and make a detailed analysis and not cut things over our knees. We simply have to say that from this whole debate today, which the citizens, unfortunately, have to listen to that they can't even understand what this is about, because the opposition has a story of its own and then drags us into some extra story, which we have to answer to. Citizens need to understand that these are necessary measures and that we need to support this for the better future of our children. If we don't do something right now, and later slowly move on to the basic reforms that are waiting for us, to search public enterprises where they need serious revenues to secure themselves for the budget, to search firms in restructuring where six billion euros is the debt of these enterprises in restructuring, 50% of them are to owe to the state on various grounds, and 50% is owed to banks. Simply, the hard consequences, I don't want to bother you now as they arise, from which period and what is the cause of all these consequences we will leave for some other debates, since I see that fellow Sutanovac is no longer interesting. He had something to say, I listened to him very carefully. Thank you, fellow Sutanovac, it's okay, it's about your culture, but if that's what you want, it's okay. Once again to say on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, we support these measures to put Serbia on healthy feet. This is the first step, and I think it will be short-term and temporary, as we said until the other measures are considered that will be in front of us in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-26-0.u12289	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 4 of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the central register of compulsory social security. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in voting day, decide on the draft law in general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 26 October 2014, starting at 22 hours and eight minutes, as the day for voting on the agenda points of the 5th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. "Dear Ministers, you don't have to attend a vote that will take a long time. Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 178 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, with proposals for decisions to give consent to decisions on amendments and additions to financial plans for 2014: the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund; the Republic Health Insurance Fund: the National Employment Services and the Social Insurance Fund. Before we move on to a decision on the Amendment Bill and the Supplements of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, I remind you, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2.8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 189, v – 10 abstentions - no, not one, of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 6 submitted by the MPs Laslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck, and Anamaria Vicek and the amendment to Article 6 submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. We're moving on to a decision. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – four, abstentions – there is no vote, 187 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – voted 188 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga and Mr Dejan Chapoo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 190 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 190 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Djordje Stojsic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 190 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 190 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 191 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 187 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of 16. The draft law provides that the law enters into force the following day from the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In particular, the government has cited the reasons for the entry into force of this law earlier than the eighth day since the day of publication in the light of the draft law. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 186, v – 11 abstentions – there are no, three of the 200 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has found that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 188, v – 10 abstentions – there are no, two of the 200 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the votes of all the MPs a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014. Since we adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, we move to a decision on the proposals for decisions on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the 2014 Financial Plans of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the National Employment Service and the Social Insurance Fund of Military Insurance Insurance. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 188, against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, not one of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2014. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 188, against – 11 abstentions – there is no vote, not one of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2014. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the Social Insurance Fund's Social Security Fund for 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 188, v – 10 abstentions – there are no, two of the 200 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the Social Insurance Fund's 2014 Financial Plan. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on the temporary regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes for the users of public funds in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 187, against – 11 abstentions – there are no, no two, of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 1 and the amendment to which, after Article 11. The draft law shall be added by a new Article 12, which shall be subject to Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure submitted to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At the title of the bill, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 188, out of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 1st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 191 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 190 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 188 out of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 190 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 189, out of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote 191 of the 200 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 190, of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 190 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 189, out of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 190 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 189, out of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 189, out of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 190 of the 200 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 190 of the 200 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 190 of the 200 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against - no one with abstentions - voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against - no one with abstentions - voted 191 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against - no one with abstentions - voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Amendment to be made after Article 11. The bill is added by a new member of the 12th together by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Blažje Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against - no one with abstentions - voted 191 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against - no one with abstentions - voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against - no one with abstentions - voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of the 13th. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 186, v - 11 abstentions - no, three of the 200 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the proposal for a law on the temporary regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes for the users of public funds, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 188, against -11, the abstentions - no, not one of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, the proposal for a law on the temporary regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes for the users of public funds. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF PAYMENT Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on the temporary regulation of how pensions are paid, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 187, v - 11 abstentions - no, two of the 200 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 1 which has been tabled by the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social inclusion and poverty reduction. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 7, no one, with abstentions, voted 193 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against - no one with abstentions - voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 190 of the 200 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 190 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 190 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Blaža Bradić have submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member 6. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Milan Petrovic and Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a 6. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 186, against – 11 abstentions – there are no votes, three of the 200 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting on a vote on the draft law on the temporary arrangements for how pensions are paid, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 184, against – 11 abstentions – there are no, five of the 200 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions are paid. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending law and additions to the law on the central register of mandatory social security since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. Before I put the bill to the vote in general, the National Assembly must first decide on the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I remind you it's Article 4. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 189, v – 11 abstentions – there are no, of the 200 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 189, v – 10 abstentions – no, one of the 200 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, if, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, he may request, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, at a session on 24 October 2014, at 10 o'clock and 09 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - two, abstentions - there is no, 178 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, at a session on 24 October 2014, at 15 hours and 08 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 116. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 171 of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, at a session on 24 October 2014 at 16 hours and 12 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 162 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Alexander Jerkov's National MP at a session on 24 October 2014 at 16 hours and 39 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – two, against – one, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 24 October 2014 at 18 hours and 43 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 26 October 2014 at 12 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – two, against – one, with abstention – did not vote, 141 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, at a session on 26 October 2014 at 16 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 139 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 26 October 2014 at 18 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – two, against – two, with abstention – did not vote 133 of the total of 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow at 1:00.
