ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2484	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 116 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladeta Kostic, Dr Milana Nikolic, Aleksandar Jablanović, Dubravka Filipovski and Olgica Batic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the search in detail on the 2nd item of the agenda – the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Security, in addition to the representatives of Proposer Lazar Krstic, Minister of Finance, I invited the sittings to attend: Nikola Ćosovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Irina Stevanović, Assistant Minister of Finance. We're waiting for the minister. We've received a notice that he's entering the building. I'm asking for your understanding. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes after the minister hasn't entered the building, as said. [[after breaks]] Dear colleagues, we can continue. The minister's here. I apologize for him. He'll do it when it's necessary. Do any of the MPs want a word in search of the amendment to Article 1? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dr Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2486	The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds at its session of 28 May rejected this amendment, which was continued at the meeting. The Serbian Progressive Party supports the Committee's decision not to accept the amendment. Since I answered for the discussion on Wednesday, but it was already close to 18 hours, so I couldn't expose what I was about to expose today. I would say that the health care system in the period from 2000-2012 was under the adjudicate influence of the DS and that it led to the discrediting and humiliating position of all health workers, from nurses to doctors. Sisters' salaries were about 300 euros, doctors of general practice are now 450, and specialists' doctors about 600 euros. My salary with the calling of the primarius is 650 euros. The doctors were forced to work with a cane and a cane during this period. We had to fight for the lives of our patients, whose way of working was not very optimistic about the improvisation that was quite enough, but the lives of patients and their treatment and way of recovery for our healthcare workers are still the most important. We worked one foot and we were on our way to prison. During that time, the salaries of our colleagues in the republics were far more. There are about four times more in Croatia, and in Slovenia the sisters have about 2,000 euros, doctors about 10,000, which is really a significant difference compared to Serbia. But we're professionals, so we work and we work for this relatively small money. I'd say what DS formations are in this period. It's a famous reception in primary health care, which is totally unacceptable to us healthcare professionals, because the more patients you have, the more you do, the more the Health Fund takes you off your salary. It's my suggestion that in the future this reception, when the time comes, to get off this... Rows to wait for operational procedures, for some, since I come from Vojvodina, from Somboro, as hip operations, for which seven to eight months are waiting, not by mistake and by the unwillingness of our doctors, but because the Fund has limited the monthly number of hips for surgery. Two more sentences and I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2487	I'm sorry, MP, I can't hear the subject or isn't the topic when 200 MPs shout in the voice. You have to understand the chairman that I can't hear the speaker at all, not me, not the other chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2488	Then, by making an appointment in primary health care, the doctor's specialist, and the patient's dissatisfaction is the result of poor health management by the DS, not the lack of medical care. In Vojvodina, even in Sombor, healthcare continues to run DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2489	Ambassador, go back to the amendment. The MPs were right. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Zivkovic, as a proposer in the same text. You have two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2490	Of course, these two minutes, I'm going to try to use it to prevent an unsuspecting large and very dangerous withdrawal of money from the Health Fund. The reason we heard there's an surplus, there's a surplus, so it's going to be transferred to a pension fund, and then when we're in the health fund, then the budget is going to be funded, it's a completely pointless story that has nothing to do with one serious budget policy. It has nothing to do with any serious policy towards two areas that are very important, which are pensions and even more important health. Of course, the Pension Fund has big problems and they need to be solved and there are ways to solve it. This is the worst way, or this is not how anything can be solved. I would like this government, if it wishes and if it implements these amendments to the law in action, to be remembered as the first government that formally kidnapped Serbian citizens by law the possibility of being treated in a normal manner, 260m euros on an annual basis. The new party in its programme has a solution to improve health care, which is a transition from an existing way of health insurance, which is known as the Bizmark model, to a model by Lord Beverage, which means financing basic health care from the budget, without the existence of a fund, and this is a well known solution in the practice of many countries in Europe, and also countries that look a lot like Serbia on their economic impotence. So I recommend to the government that he does that. The minister's reasoning that this has nothing to do with the finance ministry, changes in the health system, does not stand, because this is not a proposal from the finance ministry, but rather a bill submitted by the government. I call on the vote to delete Article 1. The law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2491	Is anyone else answering this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2492	I listened very carefully to these two minutes, but I didn't realize what the proposer was asking, as far as I understand, for this member to be deleted. So whether there's less money in health care or less money in the pension fund, as far as I understand the bill's proposings, the meaning of the law is that the state of one fund, where there's a little more money, transfer the money to the PIO, so to the pensioners, where there's currently and how the funds are missing, so that pensions can be paid in time, timely and at the amount to which it's intended. If we adopt this amendment, in this case pensions would be more uncertain, not by adopting this amendment, and by adopting the basic bill, health care will not lose anything if there is a shortage, because the state is there to cover the deficit and intervene. This amendment would significantly endanger pensions for pensioners. I don't think those who have it understand those who don't. So, someone who has and who has too much, it's easy for him to propose an amendment like this and endanger those who don't. Just to point out that there are pensions, especially those farmers, who are even so small in question. It's 9600 to 10,000 dinars. That's how much the peasant pension is today. If we now adopt the amendment of my fellow farmer, then we would endanger all other colleagues who have worked 40, 50, 60 years since they were 10, 12, and who only in 60 and 65 years have gained the right to a minimum pension that is less than social giving, so the message is that it's better to be a social case than a peasant. The adoption of this amendment would significantly jeopardise pensions, especially those small pensions that farmers receive, and certainly there are 50.60% of pensions on the edge of the existence. So someone who has can experiment very easily and say-- we don't give it to those who don't. Not everyone is able to sell the vineyard, get 55,000 euros, buy an apartment on Vracar and stop being a peasant. There are still those who live in the country who receive such minor pensions. If this amendment were to be adopted, it would endanger the existence of the oldest farmers who spent their entire lives in the fields, who turned their backs, where every authority that came in was peeling their skin off their backs and didn't deserve to be threatened at this point. That's why I don't understand my colleague's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2493	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2494	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, it is a good thing the Committee did not accept this amendment, because the promoter made a lot of mistakes when he proposed such an amendment, given that some academic citizens, I have the impression, MPs do not understand much about the budget. Probably their home budget didn't come from unreal sources, so they can have whatever they want. So, the budget is what it is because of the collapsed and totally destroyed economy in Serbia, where we can't fill the budget from real sources, and everyone knows, even an ordinary citizen or the owner of the house that if he plans to do something, and there's no funds, then from other means he's transferred to that fund that he's supposed to pay some bills. It's a good thing the board didn't accept this. I can't repeat myself, but I can't understand people who've never made a budget. Each of us could make a budget in its own way, but it is the finance minister who redeploys funds where the surplus is, for sure, that the funds should be transferred to where the deficit is to maintain the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2495	National MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2496	Mr. Minister, we have had a similar amendment to the Law on Privileges of Income. In fact, in the first part of the amendment, we tried to technically explain some of the provisions of this article. However, I will put the accent on the benefits that we have further predicted for those younger than 30 years of age and for those over 55 years of age. In this amendment of ours, we predicted that these benefits would be higher by 15%. I remind you that this privilege would cover over 322,000 unemployed, which is over 40% unemployed in Serbia. I will also remind myself of the exposés of the prime minister who, in fact, puts the accent on young people, who are at the beginning of their careers, and those who are at the end of their careers. The second part of our amendment refers to protection mechanisms. They are necessary because of possible abuses. I simply cannot understand why the second part of the amendment, which applies to the protection mechanisms, is not adopted if you say that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the percentages of the increase in the contribution defined by the proposed solution guarantee equal treatment for all unemployed, regardless of age. The adoption of the amendment would reduce the expected positive impact of the proposed measures in the Republic's budget. This second part of our amendment has nothing to do with the budget. (President: Are you using MPs' time? Yeah. Thank you. I think the state should protect itself against all possible abuses. I will continue to return to the fact that these draft laws, which are on the agenda, are not in line with the Prime Minister's exposé, and again I ask you if there will be one thing in future proposed laws, and the Prime Minister's other words? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2497	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2498	Thank you. I apologize as soon as I was ten minutes late for this crowd in Belgrade over this accident. As regards the comments, we have already discussed them regarding other amendments and additions of this second law identical to three to a similar member, i.e. a related member, and here we talked about these three questions of yours at the time. three arguments now. So, if the intention on the one hand were to put, in an equal way, independent of it from the age of someone who's just been employed, it's simply a relief because just as we would have privileged 40% of the unemployed, we would have put these 60% of the others in a worse position than you said ourselves. I also mentioned that there are other existing laws, as well as other legislation that is in the process of adoption, which will continue to address both young people and those who are ahead of the end of their careers, and also address what is presented in the prime minister's exposé. The law cannot be seen individually without the rest of the policies that this law is beginning to create and is not contrary to what is in the prime minister's exposé. As far as protection mechanisms are concerned, that's where we discussed it in detail last time, and I want to say two things. One is that just by defining that unemployment is structural and that the person has to be kept on the National Employment Service's record for a minimum of six months, we created a prerequisite to avoid those abuses, which I think they were expecting, and I know they were looking for certain employers, which would be at the expense of the state. On the other hand, I have also spoken to the details of why we have decided to return taxes and contributions, not for some other mechanism, explaining that we want to warn any abuse in this way. I explained in detail the last time, and how it works with a combined collection system in the Tax Administration, or a system of records that has been conducted in the National Employment Service for years by a unique home number of citizens. So we'll definitely be able to track it. I said in response to another amendment of yours that we would publish it, the number of users of this relief and we would be able to monitor whether or not it was successful and effective in the documents of either the Ministry of Finance or the Government of Serbia in the newsletter, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2499	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Borislav Stefanović, Dragan Sutanovac and Prof. Dusan Milisavljevic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2500	Madam President of Parliament, Your Honor, I speak as an authorised representative, and I use that time. This is one of the two amendments that are completely identical, as you know, and they're actually aimed at giving incentives and recovering funds for hiring persons under the age of 30 and over 50. We tried to influence the government through these amendments in the same text for both of the laws that you represent in the Serbian Parliament and defend with hope that we can have a higher degree of understanding in a situation where there really is largely unregulated market relations. Your legal proposals further introduce inequality among market players by the fact that those employers who hired workers and paid all contributions regularly and did not hire anyone in black, as you know, these measures will definitely bring them into an unequal position. If it were the first law, not by misery, but by who knows what order it is. We believe that through this amendment we have the opportunity to make a certain relief and that the burden of the employer is released for clearly targeted groups of MPs who are under 30 and over 50 years old knowing that these are the most vulnerable groups in our society. The most difficult people get to work are people over 50 and young people who have the highest unemployment rate in Serbia today. We regret that the committee of directors did not accept this amendment either, as did those before. We regret that your argument is the same as for the previous one who has been rejected, and he says that the amendment is not accepted because the rate of return of the contribution defined by the proposed solution guarantees equal treatment for all unemployed regardless of age. I'm not sure how this is possible and how feasible it is when we know that in the world, and we should also have something called positive discrimination and that should refer exactly to people who are threatened. Our amendment is just trying to remove some of these injustices, and I'm sorry that we are coming back to the wall of misunderstanding and trying to present that the reliefs given to employers will be such as to guarantee the equality of all citizens. Some citizens are simply not equal in Serbia today or, if you will, offered last night's session, some citizens are more equal than others. We had a chance to watch it last night, and we have a chance to watch it every day in Serbia where a citizen who is young and who graduates from college and high school or trade, which is increasingly rare in our country, and a citizen who is over 50 years old who is out of work very hard to get any employment. In today's Serbian economy, which is on the verge of a complete collapse and collapse and a stalemate in the fiscal system with an endemic deficit that you cannot possibly fill, with a constant regrettable growth of unemployment in Serbia, with a situation of enormous over-indebtedness, we have a clearly targeted or, as the prime minister says, clearly defined target groups in society that are in this situation in a much more difficult situation. I do not understand how it is possible for the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Serbia to say that the return of funds that is clear is a linear percentage expressed for all employers, and the percentage differs from 65 per cent to 75% gives total equality to citizens when you and I both know that no employer will more be identified for someone who essentially or already works there on black, how you predicted yourself, or will be defined for someone who is not at this age and will not be discriminated against in any positive way. Our amendment is trying to remove it. We still do not understand why the problem for people who are over 50 years old and who are victims of the transition in Serbia and who have been massively out of work and during our government, and even during this government, in significant numbers, why do these people not allow the return of all paid contributions to compulsory social security? Why is it that when we apply the same and similar rules when subsidising and giving funds to foreign direct investments, when we give significant benefits to foreign capital in Serbia? Why not take a step in Serbia to confirm the solidarity of Serbian society, confirm understanding of the problems of endangered social groups and confirm that the state is aware of who is the most vulnerable in our society? I'm not satisfied with the explanation, I'm not satisfied with one obvious misunderstanding of what this essentially means, and I'm glad that many colleagues and NDS also realized that this is a significant problem. This law is not a comprehensive reform law, but it has the capacity to bring this particular area closer to order. We're sorry to miss this opportunity by a government that never misses a chance. We have a really big problem, an army of unemployed who is getting bigger every day, we have more pensioners than employees. At this point, indeed, if you make such a linear situation, which I repeat, I have told you earlier, is subject to the abuses of the employer, which is also a measure or part of the measures that lead to an unequal position of people who exist on the market and operate on the market. We have not received any concrete response that could in any way remove this, except your claim that the measures you have proposed will avoid these situations and lead to aggressive employment. Please explain what aggressive employment is. I know it's not your portfolio directly, but I can see that the vocabulary has suffered, so now both in the communal services and local self-governments you're ruling, you have aggressive waste management and the aggressive eviction of the Obrenovchan. I'm curious to know if that's possible. Of course, I don't have the illusion that you're essentially not having a problem with this. You also understand political motivation, if you will, the human motivation of such amendments. I just don't understand what the problem is to adopt this measure, but not to be the answer to this guy we got, but if you can really show us. I know that you have opportunities and knowledge of this, why would such a measure in any way be unfavourable by the functioning of both the budget system and our funds and all that we have, if you want the deficit and everything else. I would like to hear that, and I think that Serbian citizens are very important, not a demagogue reference to why the structure of the population they want to work for and to be employed by the age of 30 and since 50 cannot be positively protected through the adoption of the DS amendment. I think it's important that citizens understand that this measure, which is now proposed, makes it possible for someone who, perhaps theoretically correct, might not be in practice, agree with you, you said it the last time, but that someone who really did have workers who hired and paid for them all contributions now can simply drop down the water because they will get a full-paid arrangement for, say, 10 paid workers. I don't understand how you made it possible. We, through our amendment, are making it impossible. In any case, I reserve the right to report on the basis of an authorised representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2501	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragoje Bradic. I apologize to Ambassador Bradic, the minister has the advantage. The word has Minister Lazar Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2502	Thank you very much. Just to be very clear, this law wants us to settle two things, on the one hand, we want to encourage employment, on the other hand, to create a prerequisite that during this period of validity of the law, which is two years, we provide incentives for the economy, while the structural measures that we are carrying out, which include working legislation on the one hand, as a structural measure, on the other hand, a grey economy, or the fight against the gray economy. This measure is meant to do so. It's not intended to run social policy. On the other hand, I'd use that to say, in law, in Article 21d, you'll correct me if I'm wrong, there'll be reliefs that are more aggressive than this and for the disabled. I have already mentioned that as far as young and old and in response to one of the previous amendments that was essentially similar to this. This is not the only law that regulates and doesn't need everything to be regulated through tax laws. If I were to present my judgment, we would often run social policy on the revenue side. We heard some suggestions last night. As far as abuse is concerned, another thing that you and I discussed a few days ago about that other law about firing people, so that the new ones would be employed. Of course, this cannot be because the limit for the exercise of the right of employers to benefit, i.e. the benefit of this law, is set so that the number of employees of the employer must be greater than the number of employees recorded in white on 31.03.2014, and we have that record according to the FIB, by the owner and everything else from this system that I was talking about earlier, united collection, and we know exactly how many people are paid tax at that moment. This replacement of workers would not lead to the exercise of the right to relief, and as such does not make sense. That's, of course, something else we've been thinking about. As for the effects of the law and the quantification, which means, I don't know if I'm saying it or not. I was very clear in the sense that this law itself...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2503	The MPs are asking me to ring my other colleagues. I'm here to meet them. Here you go. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2504	So, as far as the effects of this law are concerned, I was very clear that this law itself if we don't take reforms on these two other fronts that are more structural and more comprehensive in terms of fighting the gray economy as one, or labour legislation as the other, they probably won't give spectacular effects on themselves, again, which I'm saying, which I'm also saying, even this previous one who referred to people under the age of 30 and people over 50 is also not due to a difficult economic situation as such, but in combination with these other things, it can certainly be the case. What are the effects and where this will happen, and the level of employment depends on how we address companies in restructuring, the public sector, as well as these incentives on the other hand for employment in the economy, i.e. improving the environment, attracting investment and everything else, whether foreign or domestic, they are equal. The best projections we had at the end of last year were presented in the fiscal strategy, and we'll discuss these if not budget rebalance, then certainly when we discuss the next budget, and hopefully a fiscal strategy that is a three-year document and which makes more sense. I'd like to, my wish would be to discuss it in parliament too, not just in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2505	You don't have the right to a replica, because you just got the answer. If you want to waste your time, you have five minutes left. I'll do it later. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2506	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I am reporting for the second time to discuss this topic in these few days to support and to re-analyze the amendment submitted by colleagues Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. It is quite clear that this bill, i.e. amendments to the part of the law relating to how to pay taxes and contributions to new employees have been extorted by the category to which the ministry had to resort. You will agree with me, Mr. Minister, that they are a member. 21st and 21d were maximum stimulating for private employers, for hiring a workforce. You're saying that by stripping that member, the rights of those who apply for the job are even, and I'm saying that whoever designed that article 21st and 21st had the intention of making the difference between people who are much harder to get to work, and that's those who are interns, who are under 30 years old, who are the first job, who have the knowledge that they don't have the experience needed in the economy, as well as those who are over 45-50 years old, who are losing their jobs and who are very hard to find a job with someone who wants maximum productivity and maximum profit from a job that he deals with, and that's where I think of privates. That's why that stimulating measure was. What is a flaw, which I think is a fundamental problem, where the Ministry of Finance resorted to abolishing that right and giving a little softer benefits, is that for those people who would have been employed in this way, two or three years, depending on the category, the Ministry of Finance had to find money to pay for the contribution. Taxes no, but contributes to that. You'll agree with me, there's a vision that has contributed, as you said the last time we talked, colored money, where the Ministry of Finance can't take a dime without a congregation decision. Contributions may transfer and dispose of them or the Republic Health Insurance Fund or the Republic Pension Fund, i.e. the management boards which form, i.e. the majority of the board of directors, are representatives of those people who fill those budgets. So, employees, unions, pensions, etc., we're not going to elaborate on that now. The basic way was by making the congregation decision to reduce those contribution rates first. But I'll do that a little later, I'll just finish with the profit tax. What my colleagues have suggested, it is a desire to give opportunity and equal opportunities to hire people who are under 30 years of age, or trainees, and over 45-50 years of age. That's why we're asking you to accept these extra 15%, so they'll be on equal footing with the employer to get a job. Because only the stimulating measure and the employer's personal interest can get him to take an intern where he loses some time to train him, to be productive, or to take some of my age who's going to get sick, who's slower, who's not as busy as someone who's 35 years old, which is physiology and what's normal. This second part that's going through here and I think it's going to be very, to say the least, discriminatory over the next period is the reduction of 2% of the contributions in the health insurance position, i.e. Social, retirement. I think it's been extorted, too, because, as you said, there are major problems in the income side of the budget. The expenditure is fixed, and the problem is in the income side of the budget. Since the budget probably can't continue to serve full pension capacity, then the only way this 30 billion on an annual basis, reported by the fund, which you talked about, Mr. Minister, is to move to the pension position so pensions can be paid regularly. It's mathematically okay, people need to take pensions. What is the basic problem is your finding that the budget will replace the Republic Health Insurance Fund with all the money that will be missing. If you had that money, you wouldn't have transferred 2% from one fund to another fund, but would have paid out of the pension budget, as you've done so far, in full capacity. The basic problem, Mr. Minister, is most likely Mr. Babic, Director of the Republic Fund, will have to work very quickly to rebalance his budget, because you will reduce him by the end of the year 18 billion. What's 18 billion dollars for health care? Here's a classic example. In Serbia, there are, dear colleagues, four large branches and 22 small branches, so-called not small but seen according to the budgets they have. The large branches are Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis, because the more money is withdrawn from the health fund because they have in their composition a clinical centre that spends enormously more money than the homes of health or general hospitals, due to the nature of the work and specificity of the services they provide. A low branch belonging to large branches has an annual budget of 12.5 billion, of an opportunity. It's fluctuating, a couple hundred million up and down, depending on the consumption of money. Of these, 8,500 healthcare workers and medical treatment are paid for 450,000 insurance workers. Now you see how much that's 30 billion a year. How to replace, instead of getting that money that the fund pulled and found as a surplus, and there is no surplus in health care, used to receive workers, health workers who are missing. You know, there are a lot of doctors here, that rural areas and where there are 300, 400, 500, 700 residents have no chance of having an ambulance. Why don't the money so the fund doesn't use the Ministry of Health to get rid of them, to hire new experts? You've brought the regulation as a congregation majority that you don't have to go to special after two years, but right after college. Do you know how much anesthesiologist and pediatrician are missing? Do you know how many doctors in primary, secondary and tertiary health care are my age, and how long it takes to make a young expert who's graduated from college an experienced specialist who can handle his own job? My recommendation is to ask you to keep that money to the health care fund and remain with the health department. Not to mention equipment that's not enough. Not to mention waiting lists. The waiting lists are because there's not enough equipment and there's not enough footage that can handle that equipment. I'm talking about prevention. And the minister said we should deal with prevention. The prevention of early-detection primary health is now being done, uterine cancer...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2507	You're out of Parliament time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2508	Time's up? Let me just finish my sentence. The prevention of early detection, what is now done by screening texts, uterine cancers and colon cancers... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2509	The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2510	Thank you, Your Honor. A similar amendment has put up with another option, and in fact now I don't know if they're one or the other. Anyway, we commented on it last time. This is where we are asked to bring something that cannot be regulated by this law. It's simply not the subject of that law. This kind of thing could be regulated by the Labour Act. Someone here is asking us to introduce a discriminatory approach. I want to believe that there are even good intentions here, to make it easier for people who are up to 30 or over 50 years old to return to them fully contribute to the employer, but if we introduced something like this, this would fall before the Constitutional Court, because you have no right to discriminate against one category of people between 30 and 50 years of age. The promotion of employment is defined by the Labour Act. Unfortunately, we have the Labour Act, which is extremely detimulative for employment. It was brought in by some previous furniture. I hope that changes now. Although the current Labour Act is being passed, I suppose it must somehow be brought into line with some real life that we live in today. That story - calling for humanity here. You know, it's hard to call on humanity those who left 200,000 people out of work, who conducted savage privatisations, so people on the streets ended up, whose factories here were destroyed. Indeed, these today cannot be called to humanity, for they have not contributed anything to people who, as they like to be called, are losers of transition and have any normal social program or that live normally. These people unfortunately became losers, and many of them became very large winners of the transition. This humanity was able to show a hundred times when various tycoons here were selling businesses, when these same tycoons that funded them could ask – excuse me, do you report workers, do you pay them socially, do you pay them any contributions? I didn't see any of them do it then. It's kind of pointless that they're standing up for some left-wing ideas here right now. We have an MP who likes to discuss, which I am very pleased with. He hardly calls himself a great leftist, but I don't really see him living a proletarian life, but he seems a little hedonistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2511	Thank you. The head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic, came forward. Here you go. You have no basis for replication. I didn't hear him mention you at all. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2512	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree that young people in Serbia are very difficult. I agree that young people have a hard time getting to work. I also agree that those people who have lost their jobs, who are at the end of their careers, find it hard to find a job and find it hard to buckle up to years of internships or years of life, which will allow them a decent and normal retirement. But what I cannot agree with is the proposal of this amendment and why this amendment is unacceptable for the SNS parliamentary group is exactly that limit. Who prescribed the border? Why 30 years and not 32, or 28? Why is 50 years of boundaries, not 55's, or 48's? Every discrimination, even if positive, carries an ugly connotation of discrimination. Everyone in this Serbia needs a job. Everyone needs bread, both young people and those who need it so that they should travel at that age and plan a family and plan an apartment, and they can't do it without a job. Why is it thought that people between the ages of 30 and 50 should not be given a chance to get a job? Do you think these people between 30 and 50 don't have little kids? Don't you think that children should not be given the opportunity to live a normal life, to grow up decently, to school decently? Why discrimination against that category of society that I've been in for years, so I can naturally say I'm defending that category of our society. Why, and that the legislator is, and we have seen that in some economies and in some countries, there are such measures as to stimulate the employment of younger or older people, but wouldn't they come to a situation with series of amendments to spread or to descend? Is there a legal, social, any category that she said – up to 30 and over 50 years? Who prescribed that line? There's no such limit. There is no limit because there was no positive discrimination even when people lost their jobs in Serbia. From 2008 to 2012, as much as anyone did not want to listen to that data, from 13.3 to more than 26, almost 27 percent increased unemployment rates. Did they lose their jobs until they were 30 and over 50? Are these the victims of the transition, and I say the victims of irresponsible privatisation policy, were they then thinking about who needed more work, who needed less work, so we'll keep these and some of them fired? No, that's when the former regime and former governments didn't take care of their age. They gave no opportunity to those who were under 30 or over 50 years of age, who were stychically fired. The Jewish people were left with no possibility and no future. Any positive discrimination would lead to this government not being able to deal aggressively with the grey economy, as also announced by Prime Minister and Mr Krstic, the finance minister. What would that mean? That tomorrow the future inspector who comes to control the company's business, says, sorry, are you hiring between 30 and 50? Yeah, we're hiring, okay, we're not coming to your place, but we'll come if you're hiring until you're 30 or over 50. No, as there is no protection in the fight against corruption and crime, there is no protection in the fight against the gray economy and must not be protected. One more thing in the end, I don't get it, when someone comes out and says, we're in the way of an aggressive fight against corruption, we're in the way of an aggressive fight against the gray economy. What does that mean? Can it and can it be any other fight against corruption and the gray economy than aggressive? Can we become an orderly society if we do not endure this aggressive fight against the gray economy and against corruption? No, we can't. For this reason, I am proud to say that this government does not miss opportunities in the organisation of our country and therefore has the support of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2513	National MP Borislav Stefanovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2514	I don't think it's good to reach for an argument that asks a question, why discrimination, even if it's positive? Guided by that logic, dear colleague, we can ask ourselves why children go to school at the age of seven? Why do you go at 18, or become an adult? Why do citizens, men go to retirement when they're 65? Why don't they go at 66? So you're wrong. You're being denied by life. There are some things that both practice and science have proven to be some natural limits. If that bothers you, now we've talked, you stop completely, make it easier for everyone for a few years, so when you hire a man, you don't have to pay a contribution, if that's the problem. I don't think it's a good argument. Besides, what's the former regime, and what's not, it's more real, maybe these hard-core supporters of yours are interested, but I generally think that every argument of yours and every one of your performances brings in a lot of DS. Keep working like that. Because you don't have a key answer for what you're finally going to do, what you've done in these two years, what are you planning to do to make this inequality, which you may have found, and maybe you haven't, maybe you've caused it in the 1990s, what are you going to do to make it go away? Also, as people were fired then, they are fired now. The same companies that were squirming in debt and problems back then, are gnawing in debt and problems now and the same thing is happening in many segments and worse. My question, by the way, listen to your prime minister's words – throw that mirror in the trash, look through the binoculars, but you haven't taken off those binoculars, you see, but you don't see, and you have to take off what's not dark. I don't know how to explain it. I can't believe I heard something like this. A little lesson for the end – you can say, there is no money in the budget, this, according to the minister, will be regulated by some other regulations, you can say, this is just a small step in the way of our grandeur, but you can't tell why someone until the 30th has a convenience, or someone over 50 years. Of all the arguments, unfortunately, and fortunately for us, you chose the worst again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2515	Thank you. A popular MP, head of SNS parliamentary group Zoran Babic, reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2516	You see, that very argument separates us, and separates us in detail. The numerically measured separation between us, which is the difference between six and 50%, because both adulthood and retirement years are defined by the law, and that's the difference that we respect the law, and the law doesn't exist until 30 or 50 years. There is no law that will determine 30 or 50 years. As for one sentence that my actions affect the growth of the ratings of some other parties, you know, we've been hanging out in this parliament for the past two years, so what we've been doing, but not against political parties, but for Serbia, for the citizens of Serbia, it's led SNS from 24% to 50%, and some other political parties that I see grow enormously have come from 23 to fight for censorship, now that the elections don't believe that this censorship would be, therefore the SNS will continue to work, not against anyone in Serbia, but for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2517	National MP Borislav Stefanovic, you have two minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2518	But I'm entitled to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2519	Right on the line, you just spoke directly to your esteemed colleague, and he's not talking to you right now, he's speaking to the chairman, so you don't have the right to a replica, you only have two minutes left of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2520	Okay, very strangely intense interpretation. I have to say, don't be yourself, or you're still doing your percentages. You're doing great. I think these citizens will be very happy to work aggressively. So, it wasn't a problem in the aggressive fight against corruption, but I asked you to explain to me how aggressively employed or aggressively taking out garbage in Belgrade, or aggressively exorcising Obrenovci from Slavia? That was my question. No one mentioned corruption. I know you don't know another word, but take a dictionary. This is the law, Mr. Granny. This is the law, like any other. It has the possibility that there may be a numerical, time-limit for the exercise of a right or for the denial of a right. If you're wrong, look at your favorite criminal code, it says there, for example, how many years someone's been going to jail. Do you understand? That's right, if there was no discrimination then we'd all go to jail unlimitedly. By the way, about these percentages, really, I have to say, you, Mr. Granny, you've been talking for two years now, you've entered a third year of your story that's the same as two years ago. Give the citizens of Serbia a little chance of getting to know you, the more they get to know you, the worse your option will be. You understand, that's why I'm looking forward to you talking as much as possible, talk as you can. I'm sorry that you couldn't even show your face in Capco longer than that day, because I'm sure you'd do it better, and I'm sure the citizens would see your capabilities in defense of the floods from the command post, not like the rest of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2521	Thank you. The replica was reported by a folk MP, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic, to a direct mention of the name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2522	I'll be very brief. Unlike some people in this room, I was at least in Capco. I am together with 12,000 wonderful people who, no matter the rain, no matter the danger, from all over Serbia, from Belgrade the most, Shapcan, latt and shovels and sand and sacks, and I am proud of it. Unlike some who had time for tweets from the dry rooms of New Sad, Belgrade, and Belgrade, had time for tweets, had time for social networks, too, criticised. Maybe it wouldn't have been so much of a flood if all those tweeters had come to the walls of Capca, Mitrovica, Obrenovac. Maybe it would help people get away with it. We saw yesterday, we also heard the defence minister that those who are so strong, so grow to the political scene of Serbia, if they hadn't sold 800 and some boats at the cost of ten to 14,000 dinars, maybe some lives would have been saved. Maybe some things would have been done faster. I will continue, and I do not know what can be called an invitation, and how this discrimination can be called, when in the National Assembly some MP is not allowed to speak. What's that? Is that also a positive discrimination? The Serbian Progressive Party will continue to speak and to work on a similar programme and exposé of the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. We are not working against any political option, we are working for the citizens of Serbia and they have recognized and rewarded it in the March elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2523	Thank you. This closes the circle of replicas. The People's MP Alexander Jovicic called, after the amendment. I'm sorry, Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please, just tell me which member was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2524	Mr. Chairman, you've injured a member of 106 and 107. The previous speaker, of course, spoke completely beyond the agenda, and 107 for insulting dignity and insulting the MPs. (President: Mr Stefanovic, you are on the direct mention of Mr Babic's name, he has been given the right to reply and speaks it in a replica, so he did not speak of the agenda point. You have to let me explain. He went all the way and talked about Savi and Whisper. Okay, so Article 107, because Mr. Babic knows or would have to know, that he can't go down here in front of you in your presence to talk about all MPs using "some in warm rooms" because he was in Capac, and we stayed, he implies, "we were in warm rooms," so you let him say... ..
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2525	Mr. Stefanovic, please, I didn't hear him mention the MPs at all. He didn't mention the MPs at all. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2526	Please allow me because I have two minutes to explain. He did mention what you were saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2527	He just mentioned certain people who were or weren't in Capco. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2528	All right, so he didn't stop at it. You didn't warn him here, which put us all in the same basket, sewn to us that we were avoiding civic duty but you allowed him to imply that someone had given the boats somewhere, so people got killed because of it. And it's all said by a man who speaks to us, and you think it has nothing to do with it, but addressed you. If he was talking to you, then he insulted you. Why don't you react? So, explain to me how you think you tolerate this sort of thing completely normal. You can't do that. It's simple, if we're all equal, then you can't tell a man that she accuses us so monstrously that we didn't defend against the flood, and he did. And we didn't give the boats, so people drowned. You think that's okay? Well, it's not right. Please respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2529	Thank you. I don't think you listened very carefully to the speaker, because he didn't say that for selling the boats if someone had died but if they hadn't sold the boats, there might be fewer people killed, they'd have more lifeguards who could be working in the field. For his word, Mr. Babic, came forward after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2530	Mr. Chairman, Article 107. I respect your and your duty and the right to introduce a session into normal flows. I respect that you've been following the session very closely, so you've seen that unfortunately the floods and the accident that hit us have not mentioned or exploited me, but someone else in this room. Well, then when it's like a boomerang, like the hate that cares about us hating us, it comes back like a boomerang. I think you're carrying out the same arches as all the MPs, and that's good. But what's not good, what if someone isn't guilty, if they don't feel responsible, why is it identified in what I've been saying? Why is he recognized as responsible in what I said? (President: Mr. Babic, I would ask you to bring an end to the explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) Why will words such as goats, these, monstrous, horrible, disgusting, all those who arrange Serbia and all those who have sent such a regime into history with the help of Serbian citizens suffer in this room?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2531	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Aleksandar Jovicic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2532	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the subject of floods as parliamentary matters was yesterday, but I am glad that this problem is, I will only take one minute, in connection with the floods, united all of Serbia in that accident. I must be honest and say that I saw Mr. Borko Stefanovic participate in those actions. Mr. Babic didn't talk here about...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2533	Mr. Jovicic, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2534	Of course, let me explain. He didn't speak personally of Bork Stefanovic, but the mass of officials did not deserve to appear. Mr. Stefanovic was about Belgrade. As for amendments, more specifically amendments and amendments to the law as amended, I would like to point out that we have discussed in the tide that these tax reliefs will certainly reduce the grey economy. In fact, our job is to fight the gray economy and that 700,000 people... Please calm the MPs if they want to listen. If they don't want to, they can take a walk, it's a nice day. (President: Continue. ) So, 700,000 people in Serbia are in the gray economy zone and that's terrible. I believe both DS and NDS and any other party have really positive intentions when we talk about the unemployment of those below 30 and above 50. However, out of these 700,000 people, the analysis shows that most of them are between 30 and 50 years of age. Mr. Stefanovic, why is it important for us to introduce these people into legal zones? These are, first of all, young parents, who have one, two, three children, who don't even have pension insurance, who don't have health care, and if the child gets sick, God forbid, they don't have a chance to treat him in our health care system. I think it's important for these young parents and those categories of people to try every possible way to get them into legal flows, that they have the right to everything that the law guarantees them. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do in the next period is that we will really fight to find certain reliefs and for those categories of which I and the mass of my peers and generations are under 30. I think we all need to be solid in this move together, which is that we don't have any factor that can lead to a 35-year-old or 45-year-old not having the benefits that other residents and citizens of our country have. When we look at how many people who want to have a family, who want to have children, and that they have all the rights that guarantee it, more precisely, health and pension protection, I think it's important that we adopt this, and I think that you've had good intentions, but let us support this, to vote, and then all together with one consensus, one dialogue to find all the possible solutions that we've missed for decades back and you and we and you and blame whoever you want to be, so that we're future generations, generations that are just going to start working in our country, we get rights just like the rest of the EU countries are still wider in the world. Let this be a dialogue, let's support this, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2535	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2536	The Honorable Chairman, I believe he is a injured member of 108. The Rules of Procedure, which speaks in the first place, that the order of the National Assembly session is taken care of by the President of the National Assembly, in your case the Chairman. A fellow MP here told you what to do, silenced the MPs and sent them for a walk. I think it's absolutely inappropriate to discuss the subject. I ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure, because the MP cannot direct you in the manner in which order is being maintained and to tell other MPs what they should or should not do in this House. Please take care of the debate and what is said. I expect that we will talk more about the floods in Serbia and that this debate will not go in the direction that someone will try to increase their policy ratings or reduce the rating of someone else, that we will have respect for the flood victims and the damage that has been done to the Republic of Serbia, and that we will really, when that topic is here, and we have heard a promise from the prime minister that it will be on the agenda of the parliament's session, or that we will get a report, that we will discuss it with dignity, but that until that moment, we will not use the subject, which seems to me that in the previous few discussions there has been a case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2537	Thank you. I'm obliged to give you an explanation. Each MP shall have the right to object to the chairman if he considers himself distracted by other MPs. I think it was in the case of a colleague of Jovicic's. I estimated that he was right, so I warned the MPs to keep quiet, that they could continue their exposure. Right on line, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2538	I think this was an example of a constructive performance, I must say, because we're back to what's essential. We all want the same thing. So we all realize that there is a problem for young people up to 30 years old and we all realize that it is a problem for people over 50 years old, but it's not true that there is no incentive for employment between that and there is no vomiting on the part of the state, except that it's done in a few percent difference. It's not a minor difference, but that's why it exists, so that those who have made it possible for employers to have the motivation to hire them and have the motivation to keep them at work. That's exactly what you were talking about. So the difference is percentage. We all want the same thing. Our amendment is exactly that way. We're asking the State and the Ministry of Finance and the Government to take that step through a law that can do so now. I know there will be other regulations, and I know there will be other reform efforts in this country, but this is the law that is currently ahead of us. One of our neighbouring countries has passed a law that, in a unique way, regulates, say, everything about foreign investment in a very clear, short and summed way. All the living things that exist in a very clear, short rule of law. Minister, did you ever think that maybe this partial approach you're fostering is what I've already asked you, and what Minister Selakovic is doing in the judiciary, access to small under-steps, often, I have to say largely cosmetic, can it lead to any improvement? If we continue at this rate, it'll take 180 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2539	Thank you. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic reported on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2540	Thank you. Chairman, let's be constructive. A little while ago when I was talking, some of the debaters said we were going back too much. Otherwise, I'm a great opponent that we keep going back to the past, because every government will always claim that the previous one wasn't right. Since the Broz period, everyone has claimed that Stojadinovic's government wasn't good, so later everything after Tito's period was wrong, etc. I'm not a fan of it. Why am I saying this? Because you have a situation where, say, the people ask you, now they're floods, how the army doesn't have boats? Well, she didn't because she sold it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2541	Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2542	I'm going back to the amendment. Why? Because someone is asking you today - why don't you introduce something like this or, say, why is it being removed from the health fund? Well, we don't have the money, fair enough to tell the citizens. Yesterday you had Mr. Vukic as prime minister, who honestly told people – we have new elemental disasters ahead of us, we do not have the means to secure ourselves. Why don't we have the funds? Someone spent it in an earlier period. It's not nice for anyone to bring something like this today, but we don't have a choice. We're in a situation like this. Then, when you explain to people, there was a "Agrobank" here where you're pretty-looking, if you're privileged, you could come and give your ID card and they give you 10m euros, come out and never pay back the money. That's how the system worked. You had taxpayers who didn't pay taxes at all, the wrong system completely. You have to explain to people what this is about and why we don't have the means to live a little better today. We're a country that's essentially rebuilding from the ashes, rising. If we're gonna make it, I don't know, and I hope we will. We all have to be committed together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2543	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2544	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, we have tabled an amendment to Article 1(2)'s position. I'd like to point out once again what the essence of our change is. How did the government suggest? This view is – the employer who employs the new person has the right to recover part of the paid contributions for compulsory social security on the burden of the employee and on the burden of the employer, based on earnings for the new employee, paid in the end on 30 June 2016. Our proposal is to change this time limit in the government law proposal and to write on 31 December 2019 instead of 30 June 2016. Why is it important to adopt this amendment today? Every employer when he sees an opportunity for himself in case he hires new workers, he'll certainly be interested in what the deadline is, some time limit he'll be bound to in case he thinks he wants to hire a new person. This time period of two years, Mr. Minister, I find it very short. He suggests what the government's intentions are. It's a signal to the employer about whether the government is sure of its intentions. If it stands in 2016, for the next two years, I think the employer can conclude that the government is not sure what he really wants to do. You are here, in the debate we have already had, said – this is temporary, we are preparing other laws for which we will resolve this. Mr. Minister, so much before and these changes should suggest to employers that the government is serious when it announces such proposals. Please, don't forget that the amendments to the laws you spoke about begin to apply to those employers who already have some employees, so that all employers are equal before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2545	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would very much like to accept this amendment if it were indeed the proposal to bring all employers into equality. However, no matter what date you place, what happens after 2019? He could have put a co-proposer in 2029, 2099. The point of the law, at least this part, is that within the shortest period of time, a certain number of people from the gray economy move to official, that people regulate their working status, that we have as little grey economy as possible, because the grey economy is the biggest competition in the normal economy. The goal is to curb the gray economy and move people from the gray economy to their jobs. I'm not in the mood to banish extra labor that sells dwarves, rags, etc. on the markets, because it's their only way to survive, but there are also how those who chew up huge assets and deal with the gray economy. There are employers who can report workers, and they don't want to. There are also employers who can partially meet these obligations and may have 50%. The point of this law is, at least in the first two years, we're pushing that half into official flows. The question is great – where did this gray economy come from? Today, the most rebelling over this law is those who contributed, those who co-operated with tycoons, political leaders, and their friends, transition masters simply melted jobs into jeeps, in the jeep vip league, into houses, buildings. They built their own castles and told the people fairy tales. These transition masters also led us to a gray economy, because the chandeliers sold the equipment as old iron, cashed the locations and made apartments that they had no one to sell to now, and the workers stayed on the street in the gray economy. Workers are in the gray present, but that's why they are in the golden present and in the brighter future. Hence, so much resistance, that there is no reason why a huge number of legal workers, from their factories, by redistributing social wealth, in favour of a small number of people, stayed on the street. It would be easy for me to deal with the poor, or this country with natural resources would feed the workers, the peasants, feed the poor, but it can't feed the rich and the lame. It is not for workers and peasants to be ashamed of their poverty, but for those who have come to wealth in this way should be ashamed of their wealth.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2547	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, after the amendment. You have your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2548	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I am very pleased that the MPs of the assembly majority are interested in discussing a possible change in the position of Article 1 of this Law. That interest was shown by the previous days and by Mr. Minister. I just have to point out a few things that I still think it's important to ensure that Article 2 of this bill is amended. If the idea of an employer being wronged more about hiring people, and from the congregation's majority we hear an argument – it is important that the deadline is short for him to do so as soon as possible, then I wonder why the government did not put the deadline until the end of this year? The shorter the deadline, the shorter the government sends a signal to the employer that it is not sure whether these are measures or suggestions that the employer can be sure about. We have estimated that this time period, this time limit, which would provide the employer with one security in the government's proposals and measures, should we tie it to a period of five years, so that he can truly be convinced that he is planning to do so in the long term, and a confirmation of this could come when the government comes with this set of bill announced by Mr Krstic. It is only a question – what signal does the government send these proposals? The period from two years to 30 June 2016 is not a clear signal for employers, Mr. Krstic. So I think it's very important that we agree here today to move that deadline a little bit, for another three years, and to be valid until 31 December 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2549	Thank you. According to the amendment, the minister called.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2550	I'll be very brief. It's a very clear signal that the government is very serious. Of course, it's easier to extend the reliefs and solutions that by your nature are temporary and that's how you hold it forever. So it stops being temporary, rather than doing structural things that will change the environment in which our economy works in the long term. We've made this very clear for two years. We said very clearly – it will last for two years, it will not last for more than two years, it can plan and how. We also said that – we did this because in the next, and again we are very limited in time, specifically through the prime minister's exposés, among other things, we said that we would adopt laws that, in an indirect or direct way, also affect the concrete labour and employment market, notably the Labour Act. Moreover, I think that through a conversation with the Social-Economic Council and other institutions, it is very clear to all, both domestic and foreign investors and employers, what are the topics of the change of the Labour Act, i.e. the Institute. I think there's a predictability that didn't exist before. I think giving such a relief, which is, by its nature, temporary, of five years, as you suggested, five and a half, would just be the attitude of weakness and not honesty about wanting to implement structural reforms. It's not something I would suggest we consider in this form.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2551	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to be fully understood, I understood that unlike some of the previous ones, which from the regular economy made gray, they transferred workers from the regular economy to the gray economy, taking their property, the purpose of this government to make a country that we could finance, a state that could live off these revenues. The government does not want to melt jobs in the real sector for public sector jobs. Not only were workers pushed into the gray economy, but the rest of the workers had to support the surplus employees in the public sector. This is where we reached a figure of 781,000 employees in the public sector. That's more than Montenegro has residents. It's 50% more than Montenegro has population. We have almost one state in the public sector. The point of this law, and future laws will be to make a state that we, as citizens, can finance. With this many public sectors, I don't believe we can do that. I want to see this country that will not finance itself with deficits and loans, but that will be financed from the revenues it collects from citizens. In doing so, the taxpayer is not here to skin himself, but to get a haircut from time to time. You can cut it multiple times, but you can only skin it once. I didn't understand Mr. Blago Bradic's point either. However, he was interrupted before the end. I took his amendment as something that could have been acceptable. But I don't get this at all. The point of the whole law is to push out of the gray sector within a period of two years and hire in the real sector. One people here keeps talking, we won't go back in time. I want to go back in time, because without the past, there would be no present, without the present, there would be no future. One people doesn't just make up the present generation, just us. One nation makes up the last generation and future. We borrowed from our ancestors this country, with all the assets and natural resources, and we only owe it, even in the same condition, to the descendants of this country. I'm afraid these before us have robbed our dead ancestors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2553	The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2554	Mr. Risticevic, in two, I'd share the discussion, since you weren't sure what wasn't clear to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2555	I would ask you to speak to me, not Mr. Risticevic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2556	Accept my apology, because I'm a sad messenger, so I haven't learned the rules yet. The first part of my discussion was about tax cuts, and that's a political decision. My opinion is that it was extorted by a hole in the budget, a lack of money to pay out of state money for pension and social contributions to people who were employed under Articles 21v and 21d, and that is a political decision. It's okay. That's how the assembly majority solved it, and that's what your prime minister said, i.e. Ours, that's the way they'll be hired. Time will show whether you're right or wrong. What I wanted and insisted that I ask the Minister of Finance to ask MPs of the National Assembly to reconsider removing 2% from the position of contributions to social and pension. Downloading 2%, reducing 30 billion at the annual level of the Republic Health Protection Fund will make it even more difficult to operate health care in the Republic of Serbia. When the decision is passed, colleagues, it no longer matters whether it was voted by the position or by the opposition, it was voted by the National Assembly. We're going to have a very difficult time correcting a difficult situation in our health care anyway. The basics of health care are finance. I believe Minister Krstic has a good will to replace it from the budget, but how he will replace it from the budget when there is a problem on the income side. I insist that you think and withdraw the proposal, that the pension money be found in another way. Leave the money to the Serbian health care, which is in big financial trouble.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2557	Mr Mirjana Djokovic, by amendment, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2558	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, since I worked for ten years in direct mediation in the field of employment, I just want to say to Mr Pavicevic that the deadlines are indisputable, that the government's intention is clear what he wants to achieve with these encouraging measures, which is to speed up the country's employment process in Serbia. However, there are employers in our country who are not enough to follow them for 10 years. Those honest employers, who want to improve the employment process, you don't have to follow them. I see here a clear intention that this government has to deal most seriously with making direct provision between these incentive measures and the work that needs to be done by labour inspectors, because colleagues from the National Employment Service are not people from the police. They can have a system of emergency measures to influence employers, they can deny them that in the coming period they will never get another incentive measure. Definitely in this country, there's got to be a little bit of a gap in the area of labour inspection. Namely, they must know exactly what they are doing, not to be related, literally, to employers, and then when you have a complaint from a worker whose labour rights has been violated, then the labour inspector comes to the scene of the institution mentioned and the minors report the person who made the application. So, just by cross-checking the labour inspection, the National Service, the tax administration, we can only then make real shifts and have that control system rightly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2559	Thank you. According to the amendment, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2560	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I think I understood what was the message of Mr. Minister and I think I understood very well the performance of Mrs. Djokovic's honourable Parliament. Still, I have one addition to what I've just heard. As I understand it, on the basis of everything we have discussed so far about this bill, the idea is to increase the number of people employed in Serbia. So the idea is to hire some people. To achieve this, it is estimated here, and in the Serbian government, that employers should at this time get some kind of incentive. Why? To increase the percentage of employees in Serbia. I conclude this: the idea is long term, we want to increase employment, the measure is temporary. But to get to what's the long-term goal, you have to go through encouraging measures to the employer. That's the conclusion. This employer, who is one of the important actors in the cycle, must indeed conclude, under this bill, that the government is serious about the idea of employment. This deadline by 2016, by my court, by respecting all the arguments I have heard here, is still not enough to ensure what is the objective of the bill, which is to employ some people. I only have one more thing to add. I have often been in a position, during debates in this assembly, over various draft laws and this, to hear the announcement of a bill. They say, "It will be soon, but we are not." I believe, Mr. Minister, that we should finally no longer live in some shift to the future. Let these bill proposals finally come to this Assembly, so that we can agree and adopt what is best for all citizens in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2561	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Milorad Mijatovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dizdarevic and Enis Imamovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Sabina Dizdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2562	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, above all, our proposed amendment aims to allow employers to benefit from the return of parts of paid contributions to be time-limited, which would encourage the state and help preserve existing and create new jobs. On the other hand, the amendment also suggested that the percentage of return on paid contributions in the developed areas of Serbia be made differently, and that special benefits be introduced for employers in undeveloped Serbia's areas. So we have a case here that in Serbia, the unemployment average is around 24% while, for example, in Tutin, Sandzak, that percentage is 60%. This is one good indicator of the inequality of the benefits of employment conditions in different parts of the country. So here we propose one way to reduce the difference between the development of different areas of the country by in some way pushing the state to motivate the development of undeveloped areas, thus improving the overall state of the country. By adopting this amendment, the state would lay firm and serious foundations for balanced regional development and provide maximum assistance and support to those parts of the country that are underdeveloped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2563	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Jovanovic and Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2564	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I and my colleague Zlata Đeric have submitted an amendment to Article 2 which is amended by Article 45 in position 1 and after the words - employer, legal person, i.e. entrepreneur who employs a new person, the words and words, or a person with special needs, are added. In Article 2, which amends Article 45(s) seven, after point three, new points 4) and 5) to read-4) - 80% if they have established a working relationship with at least one and at most five persons with special needs and Article 5) - 95% if they have established a working relationship with at least six persons with special needs. I also said in the principle debate that although the provisions of the law have left provisions which the employer frees from paying for contributions if he hires a person with special needs, we believe in New Serbia that this should be strengthened even more and that the employer can get a grant for the employment of these persons, because in practice it has proved since this law lives, that unfortunately, we have a huge number of people, which are unofficial data, I have already said between 50,000 and 70 thousand persons with special needs, which are located at the National Employment Service and who unfortunately cannot find a job. This is why I ask, above all, fellow MPs, to support this amendment, because especially colleagues who work in the public sector who were in the local self-government know how many problems especially the families of these people are when they come, ask for help in the employment of these persons and how much it would mean that the Serbian Government and we as the National Assembly can help and strengthen needs and show employers that we are ready to further stimulate them to employ persons for special needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2565	The People's MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Finance and the Republic budget and the control of public spending did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm sorry, you can't do this instead of Zoran Zivkovic. (Employor Vladimir Pavicevic from the post: Can I, by Article 158 paragraph 8? You even took advantage of it. The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2566	I only answered for one reason. The government has submitted this amendment to Article 2 of this law, and the public does not know what the content of the amendments is. Every time he submits an amendment he explains it, he proposes new solutions with the aim of getting to know the public what he proposes. I think there's a significant question here for the unemployed, to explain briefly what this amendment is, what this amendment contains, because the public doesn't know when it's said – the government has submitted the amendment, the board has accepted the point. What did he accept? I want to take the opportunity to briefly point out that this is a significant issue when it comes to unemployed persons. They're usually in a position to play a major role when it comes to this law. One of the measures the government has proposed is to encourage private businesses to provide for the return of funds paid for the income tax and for contributions to compulsory social security from 65 per cent to 75%, depending on the number. Why does it matter? The important thing is that one of the objectives of this law is that the government is dealing with the gray economy and with black employment. So, just one small measure, on the one hand an incentive, and on the other hand we expect the government's rigorous measures when it comes to the gray economy and black employment. What's the biggest problem with black employment? What a worker doesn't have a job contract is not registered for mandatory social security. He's not pulling pension, health and unemployment insurance rights. So, in this case, the government said that for such unemployed persons employed in these companies, the government is returning contributions of 65-75%. He could have gotten the impression, given that less contributions would be charged, that the employee would also be reduced gross earnings, that it would be smaller. If the smaller gross earnings in that case are very important when social security rights are exercised, and above all, pension-inhabitation rights. In the case of health insurance and unemployment insurance, this is not the case, but it is an important criterion in the exercise of pension insurance rights in the area of pension-inhabited insurance is gross earnings. The essence of this amendment is that the government gives further clarifications, gives additional guarantees to the unemployed that this return on funds will not reduce gross earnings that will affect the exercise of rights. So they'll count on every employee, new employee, profit and full-time contributions. I think it is a very important, very important one message from the government to the unemployed that it will also have the right to an employment contract and all the rights that arise from it, declared to be mandatory social security and that it will be reduced in revenue when contributions are involved will not be affected by that person who is employed, but will have rights like all other employees. It is precisely because of this message, because of this clarification given by the Government that I felt that, with the support of course, it is very important for the public to declare and give the guarantee to the unemployed who will be employed that they will absolutely have no problems, that is to say, reductions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2567	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Articles 157, paragraphs 6 and 161 of Article 1(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 2 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. The proposing representative accepted this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić and Biljana Hasanovic – Korac. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2568	Mr Minister, in an analysis of the effects of this law, you say – The Ministry of Finance is also providing transparency, information and access to information in order to help achieve the objectives set by the law. I think this way just simulates transparency. We have asked this amendment for the ministries responsible for implementing this law to report three months to the relevant assembly committees, or to the National Assembly on the results of the implementation of these amendments and the addition of the laws. The explanation we have received says that the amendment is not accepted because the results of the effects of the application of this law will be published in public publications of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then you refer us to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly where it is given the right to Members of Parliament to ask parliamentary questions to the Minister or Government of their jurisdiction. In this respect, any MP you say can get an answer to a parliamentary question concerning the effects of applying a certain legal solution. I think it was necessary for this amendment to be accepted. Thus, the control function of the National Assembly, which is otherwise in its jurisdiction, would have been fully expressed. I'm just reminding you of article 7. The Law on the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-05-30-0.u2569	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 168 paragraphs 3 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, during the session of the National Assembly, may be put on the agenda of the sittings, including proposals for selection, appointment and resolution and termination of office, provided that the sittings are attended by the majority of the total number of MPs. On any proposal for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, the National Assembly shall, without delay, decide, when setting the agenda, or during the sitting, immediately upon receipt of the proposal, provided that the sittings are attended by the majority of the total number of MPs. Given that the procedure has been followed by proposals for amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which were submitted by the New Serbia and the Serbian Progressive Party, with a proposal to be taken by emergency procedure during the session, and given that today's session is attended by most of the total number of MPs, the conditions have been met for the National Assembly to declare these proposals. Accordingly, we move on to a decision. New Serbia's parliamentary group, based on Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, by emergency procedure, the agenda of the current session, the item – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND THE REFERENCE OF THE MEMBER STATE OF SERBIA I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, no one, with abstentions, has voted – 14 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Serbian Progressive Party MP group, based on Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that, by emergency procedure, the agenda of the current session, the item – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND THE REFERENCE OF THE MEMBER STATE OF SERBIA I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – no one with abstentions – has voted – nine out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION TO SERVE THE DECISION ON THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND THE REFERENCE OF MEMBER STATES' MEMBER STATES, you have received a proposal for a decision taken by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Before the search opens, I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer's representative, Borko Stefanovic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Thank you. So there's no record of a discussion. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to item 12 of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliament Group of the League of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer's representative, Bojan Kostresh, want a word? (No) Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Thank you. No MPs have been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the People's General Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a Decision taken by the New Serbia parliamentary group. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to comply with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure, applications. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3, but with Article 157(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, Miroslav Markicevic, want a word? (No) There is no discussion of any MPs. I'm concluding a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the National Assembly, with corrections you received a proposal for a decision with amendments from 30 May 2014, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, according to Article 193, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3, but with Article 157(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer's representative, Zoran Babic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) There are no applications for discussion. I'm concluding a unique search. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Since the National Assembly has concluded a debate on the agenda points of the session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 30 May 2014, starting at 12 hours and seven minutes, as the day for voting on the agendas of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 184 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Taxes on Civilian Income Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163, v – 18, abstentions - no, five of the 186 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to Article 1 submitted by MP Zoran Babic and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vojislav Vujic, Nevena Stojanovic, Mr Djordje Kosanic and Marija Jevdzic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 160 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Milorad Mijatovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 177 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 167 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidic and Biljana Hasanovic – Korac. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 169 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 181 of the total presence of the 191 MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – voted 180, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178, out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 175, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 169 against – 18, abstentions – one, did not vote 5, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Supplements on Obligations of Social Security Since the National Assembly has carried out a review of the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Law on Contributions to Obligatory Social Security, in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting on the vote of the Amendment Bill and the Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – 18, abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 8, of a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the government's amendments to Members of the 2nd and 4th People's MP Zoran Babic to Article 2 and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds on Article 2. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 172 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 176 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstention – voted 173, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 182, out of a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Milorad Mijatovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – three, voted 180, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 5, against – no one, abstentioned – three, voted 185, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Jovanovic and Zlata Djeric. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, abstentioned – four, voted 177, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, abstentioned—five, voted 179 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, v – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 184, out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidic and Biljana Hasanovic-Korac submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 176 of the total attendance of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a 6. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – 14 abstentions – there is no vote, eight of the total presence of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, v – 20, abstention – one, three of the 192 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. As we now move to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international agreements, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a Borrower and Government of the EMIRANT ABU DABI (United Arab Emirates) as a Borrower and Government of Emirat Abu Dhabi (United Arab Emirates) as a Borrower of the Law on the approval of the Loan Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a Borrower and Government of Emirat (United Arab Emirates) as a Borrower in relation to the loan of $1 million in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – 17 abstentions – there is no, seven of the total attendance of 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 4th item of the agenda - Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE GOVERNMENT BOOK OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE FUND FOR THE FUNDING OF THE FUNDING OF THE INVESTIGATION SYSTEM – AND I am putting into voting the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Development Fund Abu Dhabi for the financing of the development of the irrigation system – and phase, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, v – 14, abstentions – no, six of the total attendance of 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a LAW ON APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTION OF THE ‘APACKS FOR THE LITTLE AND CENTRAL ENTERPRISES AND OTHER PRIORITY III/A’ REFERENCE OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTICATION BANK AND OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF SERBIA I place the proposal for a law on the approval of the Financial Treaty "Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and other priorities of III/A" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank of Serbia, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, v – two abstentions – two, 16 of the total attendance of 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We are moving to the 6th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia on the UK OF A VISION FOR THE CITIZENS OF THE CITIZENS OF THE TWO COUNTRIES I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia on the abolition of visas for the citizens of the two countries, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 181, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the total attendance of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 7th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Laos on the Ukraine of the visa for holders of diplomatic and official passports I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Laos on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 182, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 of the total attendance of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 8th item of the agenda - Proposal for a CONFORMATION LAW BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE ON THE CONSULTURAL PROTECTION IN THE CONSULTURAL PROTECTION AND SERVICES IN THIRD LANDS I am putting the proposal for a law on the approval of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on mutual representation in the provision of consular protection and services in third countries, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 183, no one, with abstentions, voted nine out of the 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 9th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Saradics between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on Operational and Strategic Cooperation between the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 185, against – no one, with abstentions, voted seven of the total attendance of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW TO APPROVAL OF AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE 20. Article 1 I would like to put a vote on the Proposal for a Law confirming the amendment to Article 20(1) of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women. Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 187, no one, with abstentions, voted five out of the 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE SPECIFICATION OF THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND OF THE REFERENCE OF MEMBER STATES AS THE National Assembly has conducted a single review of the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the selection of members of the National Assembly board. I put to the vote the draft decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 183, no one, with abstentions, voted nine out of the 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE MEMBER STATES AND OF THE REFERENCE OF THE MEMBER STATES AS THE National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 181, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority of the votes of all MPs a proposal to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Social Democrats League. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE MEMBER STATES AND OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia holds the National Assembly's electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the New Serbia parliamentary group. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 180, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – nine of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the New Serbia parliamentary group. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and alternate members of the National Assembly, with corrections After the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia holds the National Assembly's electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with amendments from 30 May 2014, which the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group submitted. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 178, against – none, abstention – one, voted – 10 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia board, with amendments from 30 May 2014, which the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group submitted. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Zoran Babic, at a session on 26 May 2014, at 17.15 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether the injured member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – one, abstention – has voted – 186 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 28 May 2014, at 17.40 p.m., pointed to an injury. 105th and 106th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether the injured member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 173 of the total of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and by deciding on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 and ask that we listen to the anthem of the Republic of Serbia. (Intonation of the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. )
