ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-16-0.u30982	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am Milan Koraq, the oldest MP among you. Let me open the first (constitutive) session of the National Assembly in this session and, before work begins, welcome you and congratulate you on the election and on the trust that the citizens of Serbia have shown you and wish you success in your future work. Please first listen to the state anthem of the Republic of Serbia. (Intonation of the Anthem "God of Justice") I would like to inform you that today's First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly, next to the MPs, is attended by Deputy President of the Republic Election Commission Mrs Tamara Stojcevic, Deputy Secretary of the Republic Election Commission Mr Veljko Odalovic, as well as the other members of the Republic Election Commission, who I welcome. I remind you that, according to Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly, until the election of the President of the National Assembly, shall be chaired by the oldest National MP, who shall be assisted by one of the youngest MPs with four electoral lists who have received the largest number of seats and by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, or his deputy. Since I am the oldest National MP, I have the honour and the obligation to chair this session, until the election of the National Assembly President, in which I will be assisted by the youngest MPs and this: Katarina Šushnar, the youngest national MP from the Electoral List ALEXANDAR VUČIĆić – "Future in whom we believe" (Serbian Progressive Party, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, New Serbia, the Single Serbia, the Movement of the Socialists); Nevena Stojanović, the youngest national MP from the Election List of IVICA DACIĆ – the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, the Party of United Pensioners of Serbia and Unity of Serbia; Jovana Jovanovic, the youngest MP from the Electoral List "S Democratic Party for the Democratskts of Serbia", the United Party of Serbia and the United People of Serbia, together with the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Slovenia of Serbia of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia. I ask the youngest MPs and deputy secretary general to take their seats next to the chairman. I would like to inform you that, according to the information available to the National Assembly, 243 MPs attend today's session, well, according to Article 105, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 88(5) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there are conditions for work and decision. I remind you that the National Assembly at the First (Constitutive) session is working on the agenda set out in Article 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 16. Law on the National Assembly and Article 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with the provisions set out above, the agenda is as follows: D n e v n ir e d: 1. Confirmation of the mandate of Members of Parliament, 2. Election of National Assembly President, 3. Election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, 4. Appointment of Secretary General of the National Assembly, 5. Selection of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly, 6. The selection of members of permanent parliamentary delegations in international institutions. Let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are prescribed the way and procedure for confirming the mandate of Members of Parliament in the National Assembly (Articles 5 and 6). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The People's MP shall gain the right and responsibilities of the National Assembly on the day of confirming the mandate of the MP. Confirmation of the mandate of MPs shall take place on the basis of the assurance of the election for the MP and the report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. The National Assembly, at the First (Constitutive) session, educates a three-member commission, on the proposal of the chairman, most of the votes of the MPs present. The Commission shall be chaired by the oldest member. The Commission, on the basis of a report from the Republic Election Commission, shall determine whether the information contained in the assurance of each MP's election is identical with the information contained in the report of the Republic of Election Commission and shall report it to the National Assembly. On the basis of the Commission's report, the chairman of the National Assembly's First (Constitutive) session finds that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report on the elections carried out and on what assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the report, confirming the mandate of these MPs. The National Assembly shall be established by confirming the mandate of two-thirds of the Members of Parliament (Article 101(4)). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia). In agreement, and with the consultations carried out, I propose that the Commission determines the agreement of the Parliament's vote with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, the MPs shall be elected: 1. Jana Ljubicic, selected from the Electoral List ALEXANDAR VUČIĆ – THE FUTURE IN WHICH WE BELIEVE (Serbian Progressive Party, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, New Serbia, the Serbian Renewal Movement, the Socialist Movement), 2. Milisav Petronijevic, elected from the Ivica Dacic Election List – "Socialist Party of Serbia, United Pensioners of Serbia, Unique Serbia" and 3. Vesna Martinović, selected from the Electoral List "With THE DEMOKRATIC PARTY FOR DEMOCRATIC SERBIA". I would point out that, in accordance with Article 5(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 5(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, necessary for the Commission's proposal for education to be voted by the majority of the Members of Parliaments present. I am putting to the vote a proposal for the Commission's education to determine the agreement of the People's MP vote with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 240, no one, with abstentions, voted five of the 245 MPs present. Since we have educated the Commission to determine the agreement of the People's MP election with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I would ask the members of the Commission to hold a session at the Hall and in the Parter immediately. We interrupt the work of this part of the session until the Commission's report is received to determine the agreement of the People's MP's Election Contest with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. We'll continue our work after a 60-minute break. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work on the 1st item of the agenda – Confirming the mandate of the Members of Parliament. I would like to remind you that, with the invitation of this session, you have received a report from the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for the People's MPs of the National Assembly. Before the start of this session, you were presented with a report by the Commission to determine the agreement of the People's MPs' vote with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. Does the Commission's rapporteur want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-16-0.u30984	The verification committee found that the report of the Republic Election Commission was in agreement with the assurances of all 250 MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-16-0.u30985	Thank you. According to Article 27, paragraph 5. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and of Members of Parliament 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the basis of a report by the Commission to establish the consent of the Parliament of People's Parliament to the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I find that all 250 assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, confirming the mandate of all MPs. Since the mandate of all MPs has been confirmed, two-thirds of the Members of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 101(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, has been established. Please agree to Article 17. We approach the Law on the National Assembly to take an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms, and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice. "I ask the MPs to sign the text of the oath and hand it over to the deputy secretary general, Mr. Radoslav Vujovic, through the service of the Protocol of the National Assembly. Let me wish you successful joint work in the upcoming term of office. This concludes the session of the National Assembly for the day. You will be informed of the continuation of the session. Today we schedule that it will be held on April 23rd at 10:00 p.m. If there are any changes, you will be notified in good time. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am Milan Koraq, the oldest MP among you. Let me open the first (constitutive) session of the National Assembly in this session and, before work begins, welcome you and congratulate you on the election and on the trust that the citizens of Serbia have shown you and wish you success in your future work. Please first listen to the state anthem of the Republic of Serbia. (Intonation of the Anthem "God of Justice") I would like to inform you that today's First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly, next to the MPs, is attended by Deputy President of the Republic Election Commission Mrs Tamara Stojcevic, Deputy Secretary of the Republic Election Commission Mr Veljko Odalovic, as well as the other members of the Republic Election Commission, who I welcome. I remind you that, according to Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the First (Constitutive) session of the National Assembly, until the election of the President of the National Assembly, shall be chaired by the oldest National MP, who shall be assisted by one of the youngest MPs with four electoral lists who have received the largest number of seats and by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, or his deputy. Since I am the oldest National MP, I have the honour and the obligation to chair this session, until the election of the National Assembly President, in which I will be assisted by the youngest MPs and this: Katarina Šushnar, the youngest national MP from the Electoral List ALEXANDAR VUČIĆić – "Future in whom we believe" (Serbian Progressive Party, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, New Serbia, the Single Serbia, the Movement of the Socialists); Nevena Stojanović, the youngest national MP from the Election List of IVICA DACIĆ – the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, the Party of United Pensioners of Serbia and Unity of Serbia; Jovana Jovanovic, the youngest MP from the Electoral List "S Democratic Party for the Democratskts of Serbia", the United Party of Serbia and the United People of Serbia, together with the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Slovenia of Serbia of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia, and the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia. I ask the youngest MPs and deputy secretary general to take their seats next to the chairman. I would like to inform you that, according to the information available to the National Assembly, 243 MPs attend today's session, well, according to Article 105, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 88(5) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there are conditions for work and decision. I remind you that the National Assembly at the First (Constitutive) session is working on the agenda set out in Article 101. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 16. Law on the National Assembly and Article 4. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with the provisions set out above, the agenda is as follows: D n e v n ir e d: 1. Confirmation of the mandate of Members of Parliament, 2. Election of National Assembly President, 3. Election of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, 4. Appointment of Secretary General of the National Assembly, 5. Selection of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly, 6. The selection of members of permanent parliamentary delegations in international institutions. Let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are prescribed the way and procedure for confirming the mandate of Members of Parliament in the National Assembly (Articles 5 and 6). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The People's MP shall gain the right and responsibilities of the National Assembly on the day of confirming the mandate of the MP. Confirmation of the mandate of MPs shall take place on the basis of the assurance of the election for the MP and the report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. The National Assembly, at the First (Constitutive) session, educates a three-member commission, on the proposal of the chairman, most of the votes of the MPs present. The Commission shall be chaired by the oldest member. The Commission, on the basis of a report from the Republic Election Commission, shall determine whether the information contained in the assurance of each MP's election is identical with the information contained in the report of the Republic of Election Commission and shall report it to the National Assembly. On the basis of the Commission's report, the chairman of the National Assembly's First (Constitutive) session finds that the Republic Election Commission has submitted a report on the elections carried out and on what assurances of the election for MPs are in agreement with the report, confirming the mandate of these MPs. The National Assembly shall be established by confirming the mandate of two-thirds of the Members of Parliament (Article 101(4)). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia). In agreement, and with the consultations carried out, I propose that the Commission determines the agreement of the Parliament's vote with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, the MPs shall be elected: 1. Jana Ljubicic, selected from the Electoral List ALEXANDAR VUČIĆ – THE FUTURE IN WHICH WE BELIEVE (Serbian Progressive Party, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, New Serbia, the Serbian Renewal Movement, the Socialist Movement), 2. Milisav Petronijevic, elected from the Ivica Dacic Election List – "Socialist Party of Serbia, United Pensioners of Serbia, Unique Serbia" and 3. Vesna Martinović, selected from the Electoral List "With THE DEMOKRATIC PARTY FOR DEMOCRATIC SERBIA". I would point out that, in accordance with Article 5(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 5(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not applicable. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, necessary for the Commission's proposal for education to be voted by the majority of the Members of Parliaments present. I am putting to the vote a proposal for the Commission's education to determine the agreement of the People's MP vote with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 240, no one, with abstentions, voted five of the 245 MPs present. Since we have educated the Commission to determine the agreement of the People's MP election with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out, I would ask the members of the Commission to hold a session at the Hall and in the Parter immediately. We interrupt the work of this part of the session until the Commission's report is received to determine the agreement of the People's MP's Election Contest with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the elections carried out. We'll continue our work after a 60-minute break.
