ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6050	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 143 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6051	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, a January 2012 regulation by the government of the Republic of Serbia on the plan of a network of health institutions was also included in the establishment of a Public Health Institute in Novi Pazar that would cover the territory of the city of Novi Pazar and the municipality of Tutina. As early as 2009, the city authorities entered the process of preparing the establishment of this institution and established a five-member group of members of the city's representatives and the local health home, and developed a truly quality elaborate, i.e. an analysis of the justification of the establishment of this institution. On that elaborate he was extremely pleased, were representatives from the Institute of Public Health Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut and he received a positive assessment. After the decision was made, the city went and took a step further and he found it and gave the assignment a certain space which is extremely favourable at the very entrance to the city which is part of, practically, home of health, which has a special entrance and is very suitable for bringing the purpose, i.e. to carry out activities that are carried out in the health office itself. The space itself is slightly damaged, so the pre-calculation provides that about five million dinars are needed for its, let's say, resuscitation, adaptation and application itself. I have to say that I have information that in 2013 practically this amount was defined in the budget and that this budget predicted it too, however, there was no placement of these funds on which the auditor himself had a grudge. I would like to propose to the Government that these resources necessary for the adaptation of this institution are foreseen in the forthcoming budget rebalancing and I would like to ask the Minister of Health, when will this institution be established for the citizens of Novi Pazar and Tutin? As a representative of local self-government, I would like to point out that the local self-government of the city of Novi Pazar will support any kind that there are a really large number of quality and professional personnel in the city of Novi Pazar, that we also own some equipment from the former Hygienic Institute, that people, or those who would like, donors, appear daily to help the financial establishment and functioning of this institution. As an example, I would like to stress that last year, the Czech Development Agency offered to fund a $100,000 programme that would fully equip a laboratory that is the central part and which is the most expensive part of this hygienic institution, that is, this health institution that wants to be established. I want to conclude, and it is very clear that by setting up such centres, we will do a lot of things in the quality organisation of health care, in prevention, in hygiene, and for that, as I have stated, small, really small, or modest means are necessary. I believe it is doubtless that such projects are what is the course and imperative of this government, projects that, by means of small funds and better organisation and savings, lead to a significant improvement in health services, which is why I call on the Government, or the Minister of Health to support my arguments. The importance of this institution for raising health care and the quality of healthcare is very high. You know that, i.e. the elaborat, we predicted that practically this institution has five significant units to deal with the promotion of health, analysis, planning, organisation of health care, information, biostatistics, etc. Given that the part of Sandzak that covers this area is the endemic area for numerous diseases for sarcoidosis, tuberculosis, for many neoplasms, primarily bronchial cancers and colon cancers, the endemic area with high incidence, diabetes and coronary diseases, I believe that the prevention offered by this institution will contribute to improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6052	Thank you, MP. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6053	Dear President, I would like to address the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, one of the first measures introduced by the new government was a change of working hours. It is then said that this will achieve greater efficiency in public administration work and show commitment to the changes we need. How does one hundred days from the election of the new government end these days, and it is likely to be marked in various ways, my question is, what is the analysis of the results of this first measure that the government has introduced since 1 May of this year? Is efficiency increased to how much? Were there any resistances in implementing that decision? Were there any negative consequences? I think if it took two days to get to that, that's one good measure that after a hundred days, or three months, you can do an analysis, which is the result. Also, whether the government will give some recommendation to the school boards that they might change their working hours of school, so that it doesn't happen as it happens during May of the month that students of younger classes, children of seven years of age, come to school an hour before school. That there's no one to take care of them for those hours, because parents had to leave them early so they'd have to report to work according to the government's decision to change their hours at 7.30? At that time, it was said by the Minister of Education that it was the end of the school year, so that there was no possibility of changing school hours, but as the school year begins in a month, I wonder whether the Government, or the Ministry of Education, will direct some suggestion to school committees, which determine the working time of schools, that it will also move in line with the new working time in the public administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6054	Anyone else want to ask a question? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Jelena Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6055	Thank you. President-in-Office, honourable MPs, since we are discussing the subject of privatisation these days, my question is addressed in that direction. It concerns the privatisation of the “Milan Toplica” mineral water factory in the area of Prokuplja in the village of Tulara. Otherwise, the water source was used in the time of the Neolithics, later used in Roman times as a spa with healing water. In the twentieth century, we begin with the production of water at the same spring, the water which will win gold medals for quality in 1933 in Paris and 1936 in London at world fairs. Also, water won three "Belgrade winners" for quality. In 1968, there was a private route of the factory that mates with its water quality and water quantity “Radensko” and “Knjiza Miloša”. So, standing side by side on the world and on our market. It's the first time we've encountered a problem in 2001. It was the first privatisation, and in 2002 it was already broken at the initiative of local leaders who thought the contract was harmful. Local leaders have appointed one of their leaders as director. In 2004, there is another privatisation by auction, where Slobodan Radulović in front of the "C Market", Miko Brašnevic in front of "EKO-Product" and Dusan Knezevic in front of "Atlas-system", buy this company. After the bankruptcy mafia in which two of the three members were named, the termination of the privatisation contract and, no matter what, the customers managed to achieve to some extent what they had drawn out in the contract, which is the construction of a 2200-square-square-square hall, two mineral water wells, new wells, as well as new machines for bottled 12,000 bottles of mineral water in an hour. After the privatisation was terminated, the company went into bankruptcy in 2009, and in 2011 the bankruptcy was purchased directly by the Import International, owner Slobodan Simic, and since 2011 there has been no visible activity. When I say visible activities, no new workers, no employment, no old workers, there's only water that goes into the river. It is interesting that the same company has bought both Probuc Prokuplje and Probuc Belgrade, which have recently been bankrupt. I really don't want to discuss who is the main culprit, whether it is the culprit of DS, who at that time was the backbone of the local government or the DS whose member was appointed as director of the company, or if the DS whose member was appointed as bankruptcy manager or whose member was appointed as director and ultimately prosecuted for abuse of official office. That's what we leave to do with some other organs. What's terrible is that water has been running out and out for 10 years and flows into the Toplice River 18 liters of water per second. Just to make a comparison, the source of "The Water Break" casts 11 liters of water per second, and "Milan Toplica" 18 liters of water per second. I think it's very important to say that the water currently, which goes to Toplice, only uses peasants who lead their cattle to eat and also housewives who say extremely good foam, which I think is terrible for the mineral water that is used in this way. How much water is flowing and how much water is drained, we can just calculate if we compare that 18 liters expires per second, times 60 to figure out how much it expires per minute, so times 60 to figure out how much it expires in one hour, so times 24 to see how much it expires in one day. It wasn't hard for me to calculate, it's 1,555,200 gallons in one day, more than 1.5 million gallons of water. You figure out what it is in a month, what it is in a year and what it is in 10 years. It's very important here to ask the question of privatisation itself. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Mining and the Privatisation Agency. Has Invest Import International fulfilled its contractual obligations? To what did she commit and what did she fulfill? What is the betrayal of the source ‘Milan Toplica’? What is the quality and composition of “Milan Toplice” water? How many sources is there, exactly, or how many wells? Does Invest Import International have the right to exploit the source? If she does, did she pay all the fees neatly? If no contractual obligation is respected, what are the measures to be taken by the Privatisation Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6056	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6057	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will address today's question to the Minister of Health, and as far as the problem of the outpatient maternity facility, which was closed in Presevo in 1988, means more than 25 years ago. For a long time, how to open up and when to reopen that extracurricular distribution site. Three years ago, it started working on a rather suspicious project, which required permanent practice in an old facility, losing its business premises, offices, and reconstructing the facility to the maternity home. With the help of the government and the European Commission's donations at the beginning of this year, the reconstruction was completed. All the equipment arrived and, based on the agreement we had with the minister, with Mrs Dejanovic at the end of October last year, it was agreed that in late March, all the conditions for the start of the outpatient maternity facility would be created. But it's been three months and there's none of that appointment, of that promise. Still that equipment and that reconstructed object stand empty. It doesn't work. A week ago, we have a reaction from the ZC doctor in Vranj who reacts very sharply and directs criticism to both the Coordination Body and the Ministry that what has been prepared and based on information has cost 1.5m euros, there are no conditions for normal work. They say there are no adequate experts, neonatologists, transfusiologists, anesthesiologists, surgeons and all other accompanying experts that would allow normal labor of the maternity ward. My question is normal – what did the Ministry, in addition to this investment work, reconstruction of an outpatient maternity facility, do in human training for normal maternity function and what is the plan? As an MP, I still haven't found out. In the meantime, general practice had to be a new facility in a hurry, in my opinion very inadequate, without norms. Again would be a new question - did the Ministry agree to build this new facility for general practice of home health in Presevo? The question remains: when will it finally work, that it works again, the maternity home in Presevo, and when will the personnel problems that, apparently, have not been on the agenda so far be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6058	The word has been made by the MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6059	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, according to the conclusions reached by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and regarding the discussion of the 2012 Citizens' Protectors' Report adopted on 1 July 2013, the Government was obliged to submit once in three months information to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with information classified by the authorities and public authority holders at the level of the Republic, containing information on the number of recommendations sent to the authorities of the State Administration and public authorities at the level of the Republic, as well as the number of recommendations made and not implemented, and on reasons for not to act on the same recommendations. However, the government has not done so far. When we discussed the report by the Citizens' Protector for 2013, on 5 June 2014, the conclusions that were then reached contained an identical provision, but with the changed reporting dynamics, or the government should submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for six months, instead of three months so far, to submit information to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It hasn't been done yet with this extended six-month deadline. I believe that this report by the Citizens' Protector could be of invaluable assistance to the government and the Assembly in overseeing the work of ministers, or the ministry, but could also be of assistance to the ministries in relation to the authorities they oversee. My question is addressed to the Prime Minister – when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will receive feedback regarding the handling of these reports and recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6060	After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the National Assembly for the vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the seats of MPs to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Gordani Topic and Djorđa Cabarkapi, elected from Ivica Dacic's Electoral List – the Socialist Party of Serbia, the United Pensioners of Serbia and Unity of Serbia. On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and of the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Gordana Topic and Djordža Cabarkapi. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. Dear People's MPs, please, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MPs to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Let me congratulate you on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragan Jovanovic, Borisav Kovacevic, Jelisaveta Veljkovic, Milan Korać, Snezana Malović and Ivan Karic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the search in detail on the First Point of the Agenda, in addition to the representative Dr Kori Udovici, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, and Dr Dusan Vujović, Minister of Industry, I have called for the sittings to attend: Nenad Mijailović, Assistant Minister of Industry Marijana Radovanovic, V.d. Director of the Privatisation Agency, and Branko Radovic, adviser to the director of the Privatisation Agency. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PRIVATION LAW. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Neđo Jovanovic, Dubravka Filipovski, Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojsic, Dejan Capo, Milan Koraić, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Dr. Blaže Bradić, Ivan Karic, Boris Stefanović and Gordana Čomić. National MP Dubravka Filipovski, written along the way, withdrew the amendments to the article. Seven and thirty. It's a bill of law. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments, as well as reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On behalf of members 1 and Article 1 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6061	Thank you very much. As you know, MP Pavicevic and I are against passing this law. We believe that the solutions offered were contained in the existing law and that any small changes could be made by passing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation. I was already talking in the principle debate about the fact that there are few privatisation companies left, that the existing law is not an obstacle to the realization of this privatisation, but rather to the creation of general macroeconomic stable conditions for further implementation of privatisation, which is the main argument for which a new law should be adopted. In this law, there are many solutions that practically legalize what was illegal in the previous law, so that many of these 24 privatisations or 224, as I think, which are suspicious or illegal, would be legally governed by the law that you propose. Finally, here is a free contract that is hidden behind a strategic partnership, and that is all the reasons why we think this law should not be passed. I repeat, there was already a solution in the previous law. You will see from amendments to amendments that many members have only been transferred to the previous law, that something which has been explained or defined in Article 4 of the old law has now been transferred to Article 3 or to Article 5. This is unnecessary spending of time with only one goal to say – a new reform law has been passed for 200 or 300 companies to be applied to at best. When the privatisation process began, there were 4,000 companies, and today there are 600 and something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6062	Time. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandra Tomic, after the amendment of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6063	I must refer to the work of yesterday's committee and what we have now had to hear from the amendment's promoter, which is that yesterday on the committee the Proposer came on behalf of two independent MPs to say that they will withdraw the amendments if certain amendments from the second set of amendments and the addition of the Bank Act are accepted. We discussed 94 amendments, pleaded, in which each of them relates to a deleted member. We were essentially discussing 22 amendments to the Privatisation Act. So yesterday's day showed the essence of the proposings and the amendment that he wanted to create a single market on which no one simply wanted to participate. If you want to delete the amendments, we want you to delete the laws, so you don't want to participate in any debate. If you do not want to participate in the debate, then say it publicly, not come out of political anonymity by giving 94 amendments under the curtain – it is deleted, deleted. A long time ago, the people of Serbia erased the political option advocated by the individuals who are proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6064	The word has a folk letter from Dr Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6065	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament and citizens of Serbia, on the seriousness and work of the MPs who submitted this amendment and the next 94 amendments, I would not speak. But it is simply my duty for the citizens of Serbia to meet and say what it says. As my predecessor said, in all the same text – deleted, only members of the Privatisation Act are different. Otherwise, in front of us, as I said, 94 amendments with the same text were submitted by independent MPs, Mr Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. In all amendments, the same text is the only difference in the number of members. The Serbian Progressive Party will not support these amendments because this represents one unserious thing. On 16 March, Serbian citizens made it clear who they trusted and who they wanted to erase from Serbia's political scene. I would no longer be in debt, I repeat once again to the SNS, and the SNS MPs will not support these amendments, because this Privatisation Act, more specifically, gives the Privatisation Law a chance for companies who need to be given a chance to start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6066	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this amendment, amendment to Article 1 of the proposed law, be not accepted. I must, Madam Chairman, express my protest for this kind of game with the amendments, playing with the law, but playing with the entire National Assembly, but also with the citizens of Serbia. It's absolutely incomprehensible to me to have this kind of approach in writing and proposing amendments at all, and it's amazing to me that we've come to such a situation at all. This proposal for an amendment, where it says - the article is deleted and deleted - is then repeated again 94 times with the exact same explanation. So, absolutely the same explanation, just the member changes. It's totally unacceptable to me, and I really think this is a game. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed law is too important and serious to allow ourselves such luxury to play with this law in this way, but it is something that speaks of the promoter and his understanding of politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6068	Thank you. Let me add, it is the right of MPs to submit amendments, and it is the right of others to comment, so there is no replica of that. Everyone has a right to their own opinion. You have the right to submit amendments whatever you want, the right to comment on these same amendments. We're clear here. The word has a People's MP, Miletic Milija.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6069	Thank you. I, as an MP for the United Peasant Party on the SNS list, would fully support my previous associates and fellow SNS MPs, because I think this is a little unserious, to submit amendments from 1st to 95th in the Privatisation Act where it only writes - is deleted. Otherwise, I come from a small municipality, Srljig, which was one of the developed municipalities in Serbia in the previous period until 2000, where only some privatisations have been made since 2001, and the first one was done here in 2001. The privatisation of the company "Krno", where the people who bought the company "Krzo" under the law that was passed in 2001, immediately destroyed the company. The goods that were in that company were worth three times that of which the company itself was sold. At the same time, those people who privatized it were from the Federal Assembly, DOS, and I heard that later these same people were brought in and responsible for it. Some other companies are so privatized and I can say that the law that was and that we're changing now was very bad. In this way, this law that we are now voting we have the opportunity to improve and bring back to people the smiles that have remained to work and wait for companies to privatize. The companies that have 161 are in the restructuring process and the people in them need to help them secure their existence and work for themselves. That's why I'm sure this law will give us the opportunity to provide these people with a job. These are indeed reform laws and I have confidence as an MP for the United Peasant Party of our Prime Ministers Vukic and Minister of Industry Vujovic. I am sure this law will really improve the lives of all our people in our Serbia. As an MP for the United Peasant Party from the SNS list, I will vote against this amendment and any amendments submitted by previous MPs Mr. Zivkovic and his colleague, because I think it is unserious that in all these amendments it stands - is deleted. It's going to set a bad example for people and they're going to think we're insecure. I'll be against these amendments and I'll vote for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6070	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6071	The Honorable Chairman and the Honorable Mr. Minister, I understand this anger of the MPs, because today we must declare ourselves completely pointless amendments. The evidence is the first one, because someone's asking us to delete what's being defined by law. It's completely pointless what's required. I understand, parliamentary obstruction is something that is democratic fluid, something that exists everywhere, but this is going to cost citizens of Serbia today. Because we have essentially 22 or 23 amendments, some of them the government has accepted, which shows how good the law is, and the best indication that someone has not even read the law is exactly when they submit 95 amendments where they write themselves – is deleted, there is no explanation why it is deleted. I truly apologize to the citizens of Serbia as a People's MP, and I apologize to you, Mr. Minister and the entire state, for having to plead today, but obviously someone was so irresponsible. How irresponsible he was just shown two days ago when he said this law was being passed so that the current prime minister would sell businesses by direct contract, and he didn't even read the law because a direct contract was being thrown out in law, and perhaps he was used to living in life and his party buddies selling our businesses with a direct contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6072	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6073	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I understand why colleagues who are first MPs do not understand and understand what happened. It is difficult to understand, but it is something that has already happened in this House. There were political options, but I say this on purpose because it is a fact, therefore, there were political options on the political scene of Serbia that worked like this, each member of the law was given an amendment – deleted, even multiple times. These political options have been deleted and they no longer exist. The political parties are no longer in Serbia's parliament. The situation here is clear. There's something called a principle debate and there's something called a discussion in particular. So, as the previous colleague said, in this amendment, imagine when you have a law where this amendment defines the first member, and you say, deletes. What about this next one? In principle debate, you state your position on the law and say you're against the law. But then in the law of detail, where we, as the MPs responsible, need to correct the bill in relation to what has come from the promoter, we do – is deleted. So we're not fixing it, we're erasing it all. It's done in principle debate. We say we're against it, so when there's a vote in principle, we vote and we say it. There's a big inconclusion here. The political organization, obviously, if there are two representatives, by accident, of the DS who thought they would have no idea how many MPs in the Assembly so let's give two more and then they all barely crossed the census, which they'll probably never find in parliament again, not likely but I'm convinced, and let's as long as they're here to work, to be photographed, seen, etc. That's what I've already said under some previous laws, because we've had similar amendments from the two MPs. I'm saying there aren't any after that. So, we put up with them, Serbian citizens look at them, but after that, they will never exist on the political scene of Serbia as the organisation. Someone may make a mistake to put them back on their list, but it's hardly like those who put them on their list to go with them census. All these amendments are pointless. I am sorry that the Legislative Committee has accepted all these amendments. They may be able on that committee, to look at the legal practice and other parliaments in the world, but, such amendments, if they are in accordance with the Constitution, but I do not understand how something can be in accordance with the Constitution when everything is completely pointless and when the procedure is known. Because you know what a principle debate is, you know what a debate is in detail. This is exactly the opposite of the discussion in particular and if someone says it is formally possible, okay, but then the citizens of Serbia should see who is acting in what way and how. This is unserious. This is against the interests of Serbian citizens and the Serbian parliament of something that is unserious should not be dealt with and lost all day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6074	For the sake of the public, every amendment submitted enters the procedure if it meets the conditions and is handed over in time. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, after the amendment. Time group or your time? So it's group time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6075	I must say that, when amendments are made in the Serbian Parliament, you Madam Presidents have noticed this well, there is no basis, no political, no human or legal basis, that anyone can challenge the right of the MP to submit the amendment. Dot. All this other stuff you're talking about here serves and is meant for your political folklore. The MPs have the right to submit amendments as they personally believe they should. And if someone here is talking about what's pointless, what's offensive, what's bad for Serbian citizens, that's what Serbian citizens will determine and confirm in the elections, you're right. I think it's inadmissible behavior, Madam President, that certain colleagues give themselves the freedom to talk about what's wrong, so they call for some parties that have endured thousands and thousands of amendments that change the decimal point, dot, delete, etc. and they don't realize they're sitting in a party of those people who did it. Is it possible to forget it so easily? There's no need to get it out of the closet. Come on, let the MPs say what they think, let them suggest what they think. You have 208 MPs, without any argument, I really don't want to argue with anyone and spend time, fights are very counterproductive in this situation, you can vote that the country is flat, that it stands on the back of an elephant, you have 208 MPs, opposition 17 and NDS 15, so I have to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6076	I didn't understand this about an elephant. I don't understand this laugh.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6077	So, I don't do math, but the opposition is now certainly NDS, New Party and DS. But, come on, laugh a little. What's the point is, I beg you, do you see now, instead of talking about the amendment we're talking about principles that are based on the law, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6078	Ambassador, you, too, have come forward by amendment. I totally understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6079	You heard the predecessors. An MP from southern Serbia stands up and says, "This doesn't make any sense." What are we even doing? It's best for Mr. Wolf to tell us everything in advance and go home. Why should we even talk about anything?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6080	We understand your intention to derail the amendment. But you're wasting the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6081	In no word did I mention the party of the majority, and Mr. majority leader is already reporting because I mentioned Mr. Vukic. If you give him your word, I will look for it whenever Pajtic is mentioned, or Gilas, or Tadic, or anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6082	We'll give you the right word. I would like to say that Parliament is completely open. Everyone has the right to say their opposition to an amendment, as the amendment can read however MPs feel they should. I'll refrain from my commentary. Replica, MP Zoran Babic. We'll hear it now. You yourself said you'd be answering, and that's how we're gonna show the citizens. I'd like to pray without throwing it away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6083	Replication based on mentioning and the biggest party in power, not directly, and mentioning Alexander Vukic. You know, we're proud of our president and of course we'll always answer for the mention of Alexander Vukic and you can't stop it. After all, as the democratic right to submit amendments defends here, I really have nothing to dispute and I have nothing against making amendments, but that they are meaningful, for a reason and to be like that to fix the essence and the core of the law itself. But I'm against the fact that someone in the speech is saying -- here, someone's getting ready across the street, and if you give him your word, it's against democracy. When was it against democracy if anyone spoke? These are the basic principles of democracy to speak both sides and third, to face attitudes rather than hatred. I have no hatred and no vanity whether someone will submit an amendment or speak in the National Assembly. On the other hand, the SNS, and I've been in SNS since its first breath, has never endured thousands of amendments. And the respect of thousands of amendments submitted by some parliamentary group that is now no longer parliamentary, you know, the previous speaker would have to know and he would have to be informed that his MP group and his party strongly co-operate and co-operate and in local areas where they need them to maintain power and in Vojvodina, where they will do everything to maintain power. Don't insult the one you're working with, and that's definitely not SNS. On amendments tabled and on the law itself, for these laws, and on privatisation and bankruptcy, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we as a state, have been given the consent and commendation of the international community...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6084	Time, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6085	Just one more sentence. ... and international communities and the IMF that these are good labour laws, good for workers, for the state, but they're not good for you, definitely.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6086	Thank you. I'll have to take time from the group. You want a replica? Are you sure? The word is Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. By the way, I want to tell you that there are 99 of the same amendments and don't waste time on the first amendment, but I don't mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6087	I agree with you, Madam President, we started this early, there's plenty of room left. Let me just replicate my colleagues. As a party, we will always try, dear colleague, to make as wide a front as possible against you, because we believe and are deeply confident that you are leading the country in the wrong direction. But not with those parties you mentioned. We're not ashamed of the people we're working with, some of them are on our list, some will be, but it's much worse to be ashamed of your past. You're talking about some group that's not here anymore, and you know that most of you were in that group. But it speaks more of you. I think it's also very bad when a colleague says they have nothing against amendments and freedom of speech, if they're meaningful, if they're for a reason, etc. You're not a man, not all of you in that party, not in any party, including a democratic one, who can judge such a thing -- whether it's meaningful, meaningful, useful, and I don't know what else you've said, for a reason. You can't judge that, because if you're assessing whether we have a meaningful amendment, then we don't need to exist, politically or physically, because you're going to decide everything. I know that's what you want, and I know you're working on it, but it won't work, gentlemen. It's just not gonna work. I think it is incorrect to introduce a practice in which party leaders are mentioned, with your party's leader as Serbian prime minister, interpreted as the basis for replication. I suggest you don't do that. If this is done, then we will certainly, fortunately, have much more opportunities to replicate because we are a democratic party, which means we democratically elect leaders, so I will be able to report at least five times.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6088	Thank you so much for this. Thank you. Otherwise, I could react on all sides, because there were also the words "markets" and "folk". I think it's all nice and it's the usual words in Serbian, so everything's fine. The word has Zoran Babic, a replica. I'm closing a circle of replicas, that you're aware of, because I'm not going to let us talk all day about the amendment and defend the amendments, not the bearer who doesn't object at all. Here you go, replica and close the circle of replicas, whatever you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6089	Speaking of this democratic election of the president, it seems to me that in the past 24 years, every democratic election of the president in the DS has ended with debates and some new parties. So much for democracy and democratic choice of president. Only a peaceful, normal, polite, cultural and democratic election of the president and a change in the position of one party president took place in the SNS, and that is when then the president of the SNS, and now the president of the state, fulfilled his election promise, but also the constitutionally prescribed obligation not to be both party president and president of the state. All what some previous presidents of the state ignored happened in 2012, when Aleksandar Vukic took over from Mr Tomislav Nikolic and was unanimously elected as SNS. It is the only democratically elected president of one party, in a peaceful, dignified and cultural manner, unlike those of those periods when we saw only divisions, only quarrels, only new democratic, or old democratic, or washed democratic, or I don't know what kind of democratic parties came out of it. As to whether the SNS and the SNS parliamentary group will be defined by amendments, of course we will define ourselves according to the amendments. Each of the 136 SNS MPs is the owner of his mandate, the owner of his thinking, his head and what he thinks about certain amendments. That some understand democracy in a way that they suggest that no one should even talk about it, that no one should draw a critical note, because, for God's sake, it's a reduction of democracy, it's a oppression of the opposition, it's in a severe problem with the understanding of democracy. It's been two minutes, thank you. ) Of course we will have an opinion on each law and amendment on the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6090	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic, a time from an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6091	Thank you. I'm using the time of authorized representatives. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6092	I said I'm closing a circle of replicas, my right. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: How can he do that? By punishing me when someone yells and tells the president how you... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I can't hear you absolutely because you're throwing away, we're not out of Parliament. The word was received by Gordana Komic and I cannot interrupt the speaker. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6093	And if anyone wanted to, they couldn't. I want to support the amendment submitted by fellow MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, for two reasons. The first is that I recognize a concept that is legitimate, legal and prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. I'm going to give you a digression. Unfortunately for me, because I was the only one in making the Law on the National Assembly, which I signed, and in the Working Group for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, who had a proposal to stop this amendment and all amendments with discussion on committees, all today who, with ease of forgetting what they said only two years ago or four years ago, who tried to disqualify a man, not the content of the amendments, are making one serious mistake when it comes to the right of our speech of freedom in plenary or on committees. One terrible misunderstanding can arise if the argument is that the amendment is not good because of how much support the MP has behind him in the electoral body, as he is called, what he does, because it comes down to ad personam and ad hoc communication, which can be acceptable, but no good result can bring. It's that famous dialogue where you say that in an amendment or in a bill it's not right and that, and on the other hand, from any thought context, you get that your dad is ugly or that you're already something offensive. This is unacceptable, and I therefore thank the President of the National Assembly for reminding us that MPs have their rights and duties in the mandate of the MP, in the Law on the National Assembly, and the right that as long as there is an opportunity in the procedure to submit amendments to which they wish to be explained, because this is our job – explaining to people why what we consider inadmissible in some draft law, we as MPs want to remove or why we want to fix something or why we want to change. Each type of qualification of the content of the amendments is welcome, as I am trying to explain to this address why I will vote for the amendment of my colleagues Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavic, because I respect their right to prevent, in the context of business opportunities, the adoption of the Privatisation Act, which they consider inadmissible, which considers to be a future source of corruption, the way they read the strategic partnership, by looking at a hidden contract, and especially by agreeing that the Privatisation Act has been adopted as an auxiliary tool to solve a serious problem, which I have nothing to do with, but I object to having one story, another written in the provisions of the law, and thirdly, when it comes to privatisation. The election of MPs to the content of the amendment is his free choice. The choice of another MP to disqualify him on any basis is inadmissible. So thanks again to the president of the National Assembly for reminding us all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6094	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. By amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6095	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6096	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6097	Thank you. President-in-Office, member 104 has been injured. - if, in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly, an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group is offended, stating his name and name or function, or incorrectly interpreting his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or political party to which MPs belong, the president of the parliamentary group shall have on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply. The President of the National Assembly shall decide on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article. So, you can't do it before you give the word to Mr. Babic, I'm concluding this circle of replicas. It doesn't say anything in this article. We followed this discussion, we didn't answer, we didn't engage, and then in the final presentation, Mr. Babic spoke offensively about the political party that I belong to. I asked for the right to a replica, and you didn't give me the right to a replica. I again appeal to you that you have no double arches. Mr. Babic cannot appear on this Rules of Procedure every time Mr. Vukic is mentioned, if that mention is not offensive. It cannot be a basis for replication only when it is said -- Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, if nothing offensive is said about it. Yesterday we were talking about Article 8. The information law, how elected presidents must put up with criticism for their work. Please, you can't always let the circle of replicas end by someone from the Serbian People's Party closing a circle of replicas and you telling me my discretionary right, you or any other chairman, always ends up like that, so Mr. Babic has the last word. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure, treat all MPs equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6098	Two minutes, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. I'll pay attention to what you said and Article 104, you yourself said it didn't specify what happened in the O.R. The word now has Zoran Babic. So the MPs themselves give it to this debate. Just as I'm expected to do, I keep giving my word. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You want to give me an explanation, and ask me if it will be voted on, whether to vote. That's what you should do by the Rules of Procedure. () When you allow me, first I must try to hear when MPs are getting me out of my seat, it is an additional effort if I do not use the microphone. Exceptionally, believe me, and I don't have that disposition to go in and out of the O.R. whenever I want. But from what I understand when you're throwing away, you have to let me finish the sentence, and then there's the question of whether or not we're going to vote. So, if you understood me or listened carefully, exactly Article 104 that you read was not possible that the chairman hurt her. Well, I've listened to your suggestion, so next time I'll finish the round with another MP, but the circle of replicas must end at some point. You know very well the chairman before, no matter which foreigners belonged to, they had the same right to determine when the replicas were finished. Here you go, MP. Would you like us to vote on this? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. I thank you. We'll vote anyway. Now you've caused it yourself, but the replica you're looking for doesn't exist, the replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. All right, here you go. [[Zoran Babic, from the place: No, the replica is a breach of the Rules of Procedure]] Which member was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6099	Infringement of Article 107(1) I have no right and I will not comment on the previous speaker, except for the finding that you are holding a session with democratic patience and acting as the first among the equals, I thank you for this, but I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure not on the previous speaker, but on the presentation of my colleague, Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6100	To my behavior, to her exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6101	Of course, because you didn't interrupt on two occasions. She reported on the amendment and talked about democratic principles and not about the amendment, so that wasn't the point of the agenda. But what was much more dangerous, and what was said to be said, one is said, the other is written in the law and the third is done and that is the source of corruption. I beg your pardon, for these legislative proposals and for the proposal for a law on privatisation, for the draft bankruptcy law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has received all the consent and praises of both the international community and the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank and the European Union. For everyone in the domestic public and in the world, these laws are reform laws, good by state, good for citizens, good for employees, good for businesses, only not good for the opposition, only not good for the Democratic Party and for the amendment promoter. So let them say they're against employees. Let them say they are against the people of Serbia. On the other hand, where does the law say there's a direct contract? Where does that say in the law? What member? Which side? It's not enough to just say and hide behind parliamentary immunity and rights so you can say whatever you want and have immunity and the right to do something like that. Besides, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia will come today. Mr. Wolfie will be here today. They'll answer all the questions. He'll bring all the contracts. He'll show. But who's the next of kin of those hidden contracts, the solutions and the "Fiat" contracts you made up, and you invented it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6102	Thank you. You used two minutes. I'm just trying to respond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I do not think I have hurt the Rules of Procedure, because I have allowed all MPs today to comment on an amendment that says "expects" of such an amendment, and it has defined itself and spent four minutes and 10 seconds. I will allow that to everyone at least end up on the third amendment all the time you have as MPs. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Just say the member I just hurt? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: Article 27(2)) I'll give you Article 2, I'll break the Rules of Procedure right now, just you change that. Change it, find some MPs' unit and call right back. I really don't do technique. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, the Honored Ministers, the Honored Guests, the two of us MPs of the New Party, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 2. A proposal for a law on privatisation and an appropriate explanation for our amendment. Namely, Article 2. The proposal for a law on privatisation is defined by certain terms which are relevant for the understanding of this law. This is privatisation, public capital, and then it states what is the subject of privatisation, which are subject to privatisation, the privatisation models within which we have learned in the debate and the use of a new one, although later in the amendment in Article 8 I will show that this is no new thing. He then says - a participant in the privatisation process, which privatisations, then who is the buyer, which means strategic investor, payment means, letter of interest, fair market value. Then it is said what is the method of public collecting offers with public competition, then the method of public collecting offers, and again it is explained, the initial price for selling capital, selling capital, selling property, and we have 32 terms which are defined only by Article 2 of this bill. We thought two things were very important here. All of these categories, and these terms, have already been defined elsewhere and there was no need here for a special member to commit to it, but what is much more important for us is the following. The two of us analyzed the content of this bill, and that's what we said here the day before yesterday, concluded that erasing all 95 members of the Privatisation Law bill is the only way to fix this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6104	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6105	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, for the sake of truth and the public, and to inform my colleagues who have supported the previous amendment of their colleagues, the amendment-proposer came to the Committee yesterday with the idea that he would withdraw 94 amendments and for this there is a video of a session that you can download on Parliament's site. Therefore, in the hope that we will really constructively discuss today, in the hope that we will not discuss eradicating the concepts of this law in general, that the Privatisation Act is deleted at all, we have implemented the procedure as a Committee and voted on any proposal for such an amendment without entering the qualification of whether it is unserious or serious. Obviously, there is one misunderstanding between the two applicants, Mr Pavicevic and Mr. Zivkovic, because I see that Mr. Pavicevic was not informed that Mr. Zivkovic said he would withdraw 94 amendments. What's interesting, which is that it's so decadent that the amendments have to be withdrawn in writing for which we have received an answer and a promise that today in the tide Mr. Zivkovic will make it public to withdraw these 94 amendments. I'm telling you this for informing other MPs that they know what they're up to. Whether they are in favour of what was yesterday or what is now and what is the essence of the advocate in general and the support of such amendments and such work in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6106	I must give my word to Zoran Zivkovic, because you spoke directly to him and asked him if he would withdraw the amendments? Please, just for a minute. You want to withdraw the amendments?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6107	I hope you felt pleasure when you gave me your word, not just because you had to give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6108	That's right. You've been mentioned and the question has been asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6109	Fortunately, board meetings are transmitted and recorded directly, so that except for members of the government and government institutions and twenty MPs and the Serbian public could hear and see what was said on the board yesterday. I said I wouldn't discuss the amendment on the board, discuss these 95 amendments, and we'd withdraw the amendment to the bankruptcy law, because the government's people convinced us, above all, the director of the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, that it was a solution to the IDs that was good. So that's what I said, I told you whether or not it's enough to say it orally, you said it in writing, and otherwise it's "written" and we agreed that I should withdraw it today when that amendment is on the agenda. Therefore, there is no reason to be false, especially when it is very easy to verify what I said on the board yesterday. On the other hand, I am very pleased that our amendments have encountered such a high level of interest and activity and that speaks of their quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6110	Let me tell you, you have to withdraw the amendments in writing, so Col. Comic will explain to you, to that law you said. We'll be happy to accept, I can't wait for you to give up those amendments. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic's injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6111	It is only now that I see that, just a moment ago, despite being an invalid card, I have properly intervened, so I am going to ask you to consider just a reference to Article 27(2) and to Article 162. Rules of Procedure, given the indisputable fact. First, all MPs have the right to submit an amendment in accordance with Article 161. It could be one, it could be 100, it could be 1,000 amendments. We've had here in previous meetings of the situation when there have been many amendments we've discussed, but the question is whether we're coming here to abuse procedural powers, and to that, you president, you have to react. How does abuse of procedural powers seem? It is simply by applying Article 162 that it is mandatory to state in the amendment an explanation which contains an explanation of the proposed solution and the objective achieved by that solution. These 94 amendments achieve one goal. That goal is not to pass the law, not to adopt it. If that's the goal, then they didn't need 94 amendments, it could have been just one amendment, not obstruction as it seems now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6112	Thank you, but the chairman did not participate in any amendments. I did not set the objective of the amendment, it entered the procedure, the committees approved those amendments, and now we have an interesting debate. The word is in the order of Alexander Markovic, you're wasting the time of a group of MPs, you know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6113	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I propose not to accept this amendment to Article 2 of the proposed law, which is to be deleted, with the exact same explanation, as in the amendment to Article 1. I cannot accept the expropriation of this article, because this Article 2 defines absolutely all the key terms and terms that this law treats, that I do not list everything, but privatisation as such, public capital, then the subjects of privatisation, the subjects of privatisation, the models, the methods, the participants in the privatisation process and everything else in this bill. It is absolutely useful for one law to contain one such member who defines all the terms in one article and it would be, Madam Chairman, to change such a member without meaning, as was the proposal of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6114	The word is Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6115	I would now also like to thank my colleague Negai, who has made it clear about the amendment to Article 2 and all the other 90 amendments, the two MPs that we have received, what I have been saying, and what has caused both the speech and the replicas of some MPs of the opposition. If you have a principle debate and you say in principle that you are against the law, you are against the whole law and you vote in principle and in general against the law, you are against it. If you bring to 90, to each member - it is deleted, it is obstruction, it is pointless, and that is funny, even with that recent explanation that they have come to the conclusion that this amendment will prevent the removal of that member and all other members from passing a bad law, which the IMF, the World Bank, the EU Commission supports and says are reformable. I understand, they can absolutely be against Serbia's entry into the EU, they can disagree with EU standards, they can ask to delete this member of the law and everyone else in that way, but then they're people who don't want good Serbia, who don't want to standardise Serbia and I have the right as a national MP to say it. As they have the right to write a meaningless amendment and I have the right to say that they have written a meaningless amendment and that I believe, and that the citizens will ultimately assess everything and that is true, but that I believe that those who work in the way they do, do not do well in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, what the other MP has the right to say, if not. So they're not doing well, they're not for EU standards, they're disabling the public, they're obstructing, they're wasting the time of the National Assembly. All day long, more employees will remain here, increased diaries, increased costs, overtime and everything else, cost the citizens of Serbia, two non-serious MPs, and Serbia's citizens should know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6116	You yourself said what an amendment, a discussion on the other side. I approve today to discuss the way you feel it is necessary, no offense, just to pass article 104, please all together. By order of which, Gordana Komic, I call, you're wasting your time with authority? Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6117	I use the time of authorised representatives of the DS parliamentary group, again to support amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, for an obvious reason. An amendment that contests...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6118	I'm asking Mr. Toskovic not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6119	We can do it properly, we're Novosadians, we throw it away, we do it right, so Wolfette, automatically. So, I want to support this amendment for obvious reasons, because it was obviously a direct cause for a rather interesting debate that is unequal, as we listen to whether the motionor is being challenged or the procedure is being challenged, or whether it is talking about abuse of proceedings for which there is no sanction or trying to suggest that the Proposer, or whether or not they have proposed an amendment, which they want not to, the law that is before us to be adopted. The argument is also disputed, and it is clear that the proposal and amendment aim not to adopt the law. If your goal is not to adopt the law, then the means are made possible by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to use the amendment. What is interesting, since the content of this amendment that has been deleted is such that it is repeated, more or less with one exception, is the reason that such a solution is supported by the IMF, the EU, and so on. Then we're not talking about the same laws. Since the law on bankruptcy, amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and the Law on Privatisation, and today the lack of an amendment and addition of the Law on the Privatisation Agency are laws supported by the World Bank and worked by a group of experts of the World Bank and the Law on Labour, with a promise, that the implementation of these laws will have the support of the World Bank on various amounts of money, in one case 250, in another case 400 million dollars, but this is the truth about the Law on Privatisation and the Law on the Bank for Privatisation, and then also for the Law on Planning and Construction. If the idea of disputing the right of the MP to "wipe" the content is to prevent and reach the public, why would he want to prevent law-making if the idea of being a mantra repeats that this is the work of the European Commission Brussels, not the process which we have witnessed in the last six months, plus six months, plus two years, since the laws that are to be started in co-operation with the World Bank in 2010? Then it would be good for all those for whom we write amendments, for which we have mandates, to choose carefully to support some law by quoting international institutions that do not have a bearing on this law. So that's an additional reason why I want to support the amendments that have been submitted by my colleagues because they've obviously produced a much more interesting debate than their intention was possible. Their intention is clear, they view the law as harmful, in principle they are against, each member considers it harmful and wants to exploit the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Law of the National Assembly guaranteed the right to explain by submitting the amendments why they believe that both the law and its application in the future is harmful. I find it very creative to defend this law to the European Commission, to defend this law with the support it did not have. I will have a question for the Minister about the World Bank's support in this case when the amended laws are passed. Now is not the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6120	Thank you. Dr. Darko Laketic. The time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6121	The President-in-Office, or President-in-Office, respected ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, as far as I know and the law on privatisation and the Law on bankruptcy, therefore has the absolute support of European financial institutions, and as far as I can see, we do not have the support of people who only formally declare themselves "Europeans". So I've also heard the proposal's explanation, but I've also been searching for the reasons for such proposals, so it's "expunged". I'm talking about amendment number two, so I'm talking about all the amendments, so all 94 amendments that are proposed in the same way, and that's two words "expunge". I have indeed sought the reasons and motives of submitting such amendments. I found them in a quote, in a quote of the late impression of journalism by Aleksandar Tijanic, who said the next sentence when he was asked if he took Zoran Zivkovic to write him a column, an open quote: "It's not possible," he said, "How does he write when he can't knock? Ilem, from the day he buried the first chocolate, somelier Zivkovic is no longer related to himself." Closed quote. I really think that with this quote and literally with this explanation I can interpret, and we can all read together, the motives of submitting 94 amendments with two words "explicate". I think, too, that this sentence depicts not only one giant business venture of the mentioned gentleman, of course with the subsidy of the state, here I am ending, but also the state of the spirit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6122	Ambassador, please. You've come forward after the amendment. Zoran Zivkovic, you mentioned him, quoted his sentences. I have to give him my word. It's a two-minute replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6123	Thank you to an esteemed colleague for giving me the opportunity to get some more time, not to answer the nonsense he said, but to further prove that this law is not good and that this law must not be passed, or I hope that after such exhaustive, high-quality, deep debates by the majority, the minister himself will understand that the law should be withdrawn, because adopting a law with the support of such grand minds will be a really complicated thing. But say hello to anyone who writes about me...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6124	Ambassador, speak to me. Mr. Micunovic asked all the MPs only for a speaker yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6125	I'm sorry. Tell the previous speaker, President, that I love people who do my work, business, political and sports, and I don't know which everything, that it's very nice, that it's the job of every politician to draw attention and it's a positive attention that I understand the attention of the predecessor and that, with today's lack of my already chronic biographer who isn't present in the hall today, there are still a lot of high-minded people who are dealing with my history, which I do, and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6126	Thank you. I'll take a break. The word is Dragan Nikolic. I apologize, Marko Djurisic had previously answered if he still wanted to, according to the amendment. Just tell me, the time of the MP or the time of the boss?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6127	It's time for the boss.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6129	This Article 2 defines the concepts contained in this law and one of the terms is a strategic partnership. It says – a strategic partnership is a model of privatisation through the institutional relationship of domestic or foreign persons with a privatisation entity, i.e. the Republic of Serbia, which is implemented through joint investment through the establishment of a new company or the recapitalisation of an existing privatisation entity. We have heard from many predecessors that this law will prevent corruption, as it has been praised by various international institutions, so I would like to read a press release from an institution, it is called "Transparency of Serbia", which starts like this -- privatisation remains at the risk of corruption. "Transparency of Serbia" believes that the current Privatisation Law does not remove enough risks for corruption in the area, even though it declares transparency and prevents corruption among the fundamental principles and brings some good solutions. The "Transparency of Serbia" estimates that it is extremely important that the bill leaves out the most controversial provision in the draft, the possibility of privatisation being implemented according to the method of the direct contract. On the same day, however, the public was informed that direct contracts would still be made, but that they would be applied directly on the basis of interstate contracts. This continues to be a dangerous practice, the creation of a parallel legal regime in which the state, on the one hand, prescribes strict competition rules, transparency and procedures for the availability of public property, and on the other hand, is easy to deny all these principles when dealing with foreign partners from the selected countries, whether it is about the sale of enterprises, public procurement or public, private partnerships. The bill contains a strategic partnership model where competition, the public, the method of public collection of offers will exist, but the problem is that criteria for selecting this model and the qualifications of investors are not precisely set up, but is left to the government to find them arbitrarily from case to case and to continue to make a statement, I would not now read. So, it's not like everyone has a positive opinion on the solutions set out in this law, here I have cited the "Transparency of Serbia" statement that is often taken here as someone who assesses the transparency of the law that is passed and implemented in the Republic of Serbia and I think that, I have quoted, I have used the debate in this Article 2 which defines the strategic partnership and I have included, I hope sufficiently argued in the discussion that this law does not, however, eliminate all the risks of corruption, as some fellow MPs claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6130	Mr. Granny, can I give you group time or your time, since he didn't mention anything?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6131	Group time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6132	Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6133	What makes this law much more flexible and better than the still valid Privatisation Act, for which we have seen how disabled it is because it is disabled as soon as it has left nearly 600 companies in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency, which has left 161 companies in the restructuring phase. He's definitely bad. He has put a question mark on 88,000 workers in Serbia and definitely cannot talk about a law that is good. For a law that has a direct or indirect cost for the Serbian budget of nearly 800m euros for these firms in restructuring or those companies that have not found their strategic partner, we cannot talk about as a law that is good, but rather about a law that needs to be changed. What makes all these companies more flexible and better is this proposed Privatisation Act, which makes every single one more transparent to make all these companies, and I would like all the companies to find their strategic partners, I'm not sure and I don't want to fool people in Serbia into saying everything will be settled. I would love to, but it's almost impossible, because the previous regime of this kind of law, by introducing companies into restructuring, sleeping and management and employees of these companies, said - you don't have to pay anyone anything, you don't have to do, you get paid, you get a small salary, you don't have to fight for that salary, that salary will provide you with taxpayers, that salary will be provided to you by other people in Serbia, that salary will provide you with that little healthy economy in Serbia that remains. That kind of economy, in my humble opinion, is dilettaneous. On the other hand, I respect the role that the NGO has in every society, including in Serbian society. I respect every critical tone. I also respect the role that "Transparency of Serbia" has in our society, but unfortunately, "Transparency of Serbia" has not brought any investors. "Transparency of Serbia" did not bring funds to these companies, did not provide production, does not provide credit lines. There's this elegant role in critical role, the correct role in society. This is good and must exist, but cannot be measured by the same strength of the "Transparency" opinion compared to the Fiscal Council, compared to the International Monetary Fund, compared to the World Bank. Whether you want to admit it or not, whether we like it or not, we depend on those international institutions. We do not depend on “Transparency”. Repeat, I respect what "Transparency of Serbia" does and what it means to a corrective factor in our society, in every society, and also in Serbian society, but cannot measure a critical tone in relation to those who consume this law from which the Serbian economy and on whom the Serbian state depends. Of course, we have a more important view of the World Bank and a more important position of the International Monetary Fund and the EU compared to "Transparency", by comparing these two opinions and making it a sign of equality is unserious. This is a law that no one has imposed on us. These are laws that no one has written and written and said – this is what you have to do. These are the laws that are the need of our society, which are the need to put an end to the privatisation process, of which the largest number of our people is turning their stomachs. My colleague Martinovic spoke nicely, of all these privatisations, 28 privatisations are being held as successful. Imagine thousands of privatisations that have been carried out, and that you have the first prominence of successful ones and to say yes, that's good. Do you have one prominence of success and praise this law? You stand for a European path, but you do not respect European values, do you not respect European opinion? Then speak openly – we are not for the EU, you have another time. If these laws are reform laws and that's why we got support, if these laws are good for companies that haven't been privatized yet, if these laws are good for employees in these companies, and they're not good for you, so say we're against citizens, we're against employees, we're against these companies. Well, speak plainly, then. There's not one in the program, and the other policy is being implemented. I can't double the standards. Because of all this, because of what Mr Vujovic said a few days ago, because of international support, because of the lives that these laws bring, and about privatisation and bankruptcy, the SNS will support this law in the voting day and of course will not support these amendments that everyone has the right to, but amendments that have no idea other than – is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6134	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6135	I'm using the time of authorized representatives of the DS parliamentary group. I have one request. Since I listened carefully to the previous speaker, one adjective was used, one word for which I can only beg not to be used, because the laws that change, that is, in this case the laws to be replaced, have been assessed as disabled. The disability isn't a negative thing, nor is it a negative description. I know that we need more goodwill than there is a way to determine it in the Rules of Procedure, and that is why I appeal to this good will. As laws can't be disabled, so it can't be amended qualified, as it tries here, except for repeating the truths about reasons, about time, if you want about authors, and about supporting legal privatisation and amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law. To at least on this amendment, which defines what the law will apply, we would try to obtain relevant information, responsible public words, I am now asking the Minister whether the World Bank and whether it remained in support of $250m, as announced for the adoption of these laws in December 2013 or January 2014? So does the World Bank have financial support for the application of these laws to the Government of the Republic of Serbia? To end with who and in what way supports the application of these laws, with one request that we choose our own words more carefully and that we do not call the laws invalid because there are people who are simply and unfortunately easily recognized in such words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6136	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6137	Thank you. Before I answer your question directly, just one note. There have been many attempts to change the laws previously and allow for the continuation of the privatisation process. The reasons why they did not lead to the final effects are complex and I think they exceed the scope of this session, but I can say next. We put this bill on the Agency's website. There was a lot of time for 20 days for public discussion. As part of this public discussion on the law we wrote, and not them, we received comments and suggestions from our professional public, international financial organisations. Two weeks after the conclusion of this debate, we adopted all those objections which we believe and, in the government's view, because the government adopted the amended text. We reflected it in the amended text of the law. If you want, we can go through the detailed changes we've adopted. That text went to the government. Therefore, this is about supporting international financial organisations to the text of the laws we have proposed, about the interaction between the public discussion and the bill addressed to the government and which the government adopted and delivered to the Assembly for consideration, which you have before you. Therefore, this is absolutely true, that we have received support from all organisations mentioned and more than that, meaning, from other organisations active in Belgrade, bilateral organisations, professional organisations etc. As part of the talks on the application of this law, we continued the talks with the World Bank and provided not only the support that was before, but much deeper support. We want to make a full so-called. DPL for this law that will allow all of us to within the so-called matrixes to develop results...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6138	Time. You spent two minutes on the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6139	... We follow that law. So, it's gonna be... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6140	The word has been issued by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, there are several reasons why the SNS considers the government to have done a good job of refusing the proposed amendment. I understand that some fellow Members of the people are MPs, to say in the language of the people, new in this business, but I think they've got one book that I've received in my own time, and it's called a set of regulations. Here are the Constitution, the Constitutional Law, the Law on the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure and one act on which MPs, these new ones, seem to have forgotten - the unique methodological rules for making regulations. These unique methodological rules for making regulations, which I would like to remind my colleagues who are a little longer in this National Assembly, have been adopted by the Legislative Committee on 30 March 2010. These unique methodological rules for the making of the rules were published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" a few days later, in early April 2010, and at the head of the Legislative Committee, if I am not mistaken, there was a MP from the DS. Why am I saying this? Because this amendment proposes erasing Article 2, where definitions are found, that is to say, the definition of 32 concepts which are essential for the application of the Privatisation Act. Why are these unique methodological rules important? For the following reason, Chapter 2 of this Act is referred to as ‘the contents of the introductory part of the regulation’. In this Chapter 2 you have a Article 7 which reads – the definition is part of the introductory part of the attribution, which is located after the subject matter of editing, and contains an explanation of the meaning of certain terms used in the regulation. The definition uses generally known and unequivocal terms. What do you propose with this amendment? With this amendment, you suggest that the National Assembly does not respect the uniform methodological rules for making regulations. You propose to delete 32 definitions of concepts, or concepts that are necessary tomorrow, when this law is passed, when it applies. You are saying, which is not true, that it is unnecessary for these definitions to be found in this bill when those definitions already exist in some other laws. I ask the promoters, since I suppose they are much better lawyers than I, in which laws do you have a definition, except in this bill, privatisation, in which law do you have a definition of the subject of privatisation, privatisation entities, privatisation models, privatisation methods, participants in the privatisation process, strategic investor, buyer, fair market value, public tendering method, etc? What you said, how can I tell you, in business, legal, formal-technical terms, is not true. What I also do not understand – how did MPs who voted for these unique methodological rules at the session of the Legislative Committee in 2010?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6142	Please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6143	I'm talking about the amendment. So how is it that MPs who voted in favour of these methodological rules now say - you have no right to refuse the amendment, which says - should delete 32 definitions from the bill, and write nicely in these methodological rules that is necessary, that is the obligation of the legislator, to define the concepts used in the draft law at the beginning of the bill? So it's one, not just a lawyer, it's one big political inconsistencies. That is, to say the formal-legal reason why the government did well when it rejected this amendment, because the amendment is really pointless. You cannot erase 32 terms and definitions of that concept, these terms, when the obligation of the National Assembly is according to this methodological rule to have those definitions. That's a formal reason. It's a material reason. My colleague Zoran Babic was already talking about this material reason. What does it mean to delete, or propose, all members of the bill to be deleted? This means this: we want the Serbian economy to remain in the frog-creation, we want the dead sea to remain, we want hundreds of enterprises, which have not been privatised so far, remain in that status, we don't want to solve the problem of the enterprises that are in restructuring, we want everything to remain the same, and we want it to be in the EU, we want the citizens of Serbia to live better, we want them to have a job, we want them to have salaries, so as with this privatisation law. One more thing. As an additional argument as to why these amendments are, I'm not going to say pointless, that colleagues are not offended, but they don't make much sense, not legal, not political, not God, not economic. The colleagues, among other things, have suggested that you will see later when we come to these amendments, that those members who are in a context identical to the members of the applicable Privatisation Act be deleted. This means that you, not only do you not support this Privatisation proposal, but you are now against that Privatisation Act that you yourself have proposed and voted for.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6144	The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment. Are you using your time? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6145	The Minister's reply, given that his answer is related to the contents of this amendment. So you gave me the answer, and I didn't ask you that. Secondly, you will probably become Minister of Finance, so perhaps it is time to learn together on this easier case that the questions of the MPs here must be answered precisely because it is a common interest. In response, there cannot be some organisations, some financial organisations, in Belgrade and everywhere in the world, some international ones, such as cannot contain part of the response in a foreign language, which I understand, but may have other colleagues who do not understand. The question was very simple – in this case, does the World Bank's prior agreement on financial support for implementation, extremely difficult implementation, the Law on Privatisation remain and if there is an amendment to the Law on the Privatisation Agency, the Law on bankruptcy and the Labour Act? It is important that we know that answer, because your answer is quite accurate to us, too, whether we continue to, with understanding, treat the basic reason for this set of laws, which are December decisions of 2007 on enterprises in restructuring. It's an objective problem about $600 million in the budget, which goes to salaries, which goes to failed privatisations. We have an awareness of what the problem is. We are not an opposition to Serbia that wants to solve this problem, but we are an opposition to the government that is trying to tell one story, the other is writing, and the third is working. That's not gonna work, 'cause it's not good for anybody. My question was very clear and it is not a matter of whether I deserve a clear answer or not, but rather a matter of seeing in this case whether you, as minister, future finance, and I, as a national MP, share the same view of what is a common interest, and what is common damage from these four or five laws that will be under investigation in the Serbian Parliament. Not because of me and not because of you, but because of the public who listens, you owe the precise answers to the names of financial organizations, whether there's 250 to 400 million dollars in support or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6146	Thank you. You can't, Minister. You spent two minutes on the same amendment. Next time. I'm sorry the procedure is like that. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic:
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6147	Thank you. In Article 3, there is clear evidence of what we are saying that this is just one little amendment to the existing law. Let's say, here you have attitude one. – the provisions of this law apply to privatisation entities established in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The same text is written in Article 4 of the previous law. Article 2 is interesting in this article and therefore, among other things, we are against and to delete this Article 3. It says – if this law regulates the question of which other law is regulated differently, the provisions of this law apply. So this is one law that has more value than other laws. Without definition of the laws, which are the questions to which they apply. These are inconceivable consequences of Article 2 in the application of the law. I hope that at least someone has carefully tried to see what the consequences will be since there are probably several thousand and several hundred laws in our legal system. Has anyone been able to examine all the possibilities in which such a provision will not cause bad, less good, or even catastrophic consequences in the area of privatisation or in other areas? So I'm interested in explaining what this attitude was meant to be and is any analysis done? What consequences will this view have in the first place on the legal system of this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6148	The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6149	Thank you, Madam President of Parliament. I reported on that second amendment, this is the third one, but it's exactly the same. The comment will be the same because the proposal is identical in 94 cases, which is, it seems to me unprecedented. Of course, the SNS won't vote for this amendment in voting day. My proposal as an MP is not to vote against it either. I think we should refrain because it is a shame to waste electricity in this House by voting against all these amendments. Before that, I wanted to welcome the Minister of Economy, a minister who will soon, in my knowledge, be a minister of finance, but thank him for giving this assembly a very serious study-based, thorough Privatisation Act, which will cancel many of the privatisations that are stuck, which will allow the companies that are in restructuring to start out of this vicious circle and I am sure that in the day of the vote, as a parliamentary group we will give support to this law as a whole, and that we will accept amendments that have exceeded, which have made this law better. The day we got the amendments, I was happy, there were 120. The president, or head of our parliamentary group, told us, I was happy and told – the opposition understands the gravity of this law, its seriousness, but the moment I saw that it was 94 amendments, 10% is just two words, and that is – it is deleted and it shows all the unseriousness in this very difficult situation in which Serbia is. That's why the option it belonged to, the one who gave these amendments, received less than 4% in Vranje, and the SNS received over 50% of the votes. Every one of us who enters this parliament is either on the party or on the list, but then his name and last name are highly recognised in Serbia. It's recognized in the city she lives in, among the people she's moving with and...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6150	MP, please on the amendment, that's out of the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6151	... I'm talking about this amendment right now about the quality of the amendment. I am impressed because we will have the opportunity to report today 94 times and tell the Serbian public that SNS is one very serious, one very responsible party and that Serbia's citizens will certainly never regret voting for us, and I expect in the next elections to win over 60% of the vote in Vranje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6152	The word has a folk letter from Dr Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6153	Thank you. The necessity of passing this law, and at the same time the rejection of this amendment is too much to say, because the previous Privatisation Act has proved to be very bad. In fact, 400,000 workers are out of work. Specifically in Kruševec, the city from which I came 15 years ago, there were 40,000 workers, of which 17,000 workers were in primary production. Now there are only 17,000 employees, and of which about 3,000 primary production workers. The need to pass this law is multiple because we need to think about the workers "14. October", Trajala, then Muscular Factory, because in Kruševec almost all factories are either in the restructuring process or in the privatisation process. Kruševac, who was a fifth-place town 15 years ago, is now a devastated area. Therefore, I believe that this amendment as well as the next 93-94, how many fellow Members of Parliament have submitted, we should refuse and this law should support the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6154	Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6155	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, I think that the proposings of this amendment are without any need to scare the citizens of Serbia, scare the public and scare the businessmen that in Article 3(2), there are some kind of monstrous provisions that will completely disrupt the functioning of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Article 3(2) The proposal for a privatisation law is – if this law regulates a question which is otherwise regulated by other law, the provisions of this law apply. I would like to draw attention to the amendment's promoters that students at the first year of each law school in Serbia from cases called Introduction to Law somewhere, somewhere the State Theory and Rights teach that there are two rules in interpreting legal rules, two interpretation rules. One rule in Latin is – lex specialis derogat legi generali, so – the special law suspends the provisions of general law in a particular area. The second rule – lex posterior derogat legi Priori, which means – the later law suspends the law that was passed before it. There's nothing illegal about it, there's nothing controversial about it. It does not bring any chaos into the functioning of the legal system. To enter, no Roman lawyers would, from these ancient times, formulate these rules. These rules have been in force for centuries in every democratic, civilized legal system. Even if the legislator, therefore the Government of the Republic of Serbia, does not have this provision in the bill, there are these two rules, theoretical rules that apply to the interpretation of every legal regulation it adopts, regardless of whether the National Assembly, Government or any other state body. So there's nothing controversial about it. Why am I saying this? Not because I would hold any academic sermons to the applicants of the amendments, but only to send a clear political message to the citizens of Serbia, and above all to employees in enterprises that have not yet been privatised, i.e. enterprises in the status of restructuring, that there is nothing terrible will happen when this law is passed and when its application begins. On the contrary, this law is the only remedy for the serious disease in which the Serbian economy is unfortunately found. You know what our people say. An angry grass is placed on an angry wound. This law is an angry grass for angry diseases in which there is a Serbian economy, and these angry diseases were not caused by Aleksandar Vucic, SNS, or Dusan Vujovic. These severe and angry diseases are inherited and we are trying to heal those inherited diseases with these angry grasses, to make it better for us, but above all, to make it better for our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6156	I thank Dr. Martinovic. The head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6157	counterpart Martinovic, showing his outstanding legal knowledge, explained all the reasons why the SNS would vote against the amendment. With my modest knowledge and modest political experience, I will also remind the amendments and all other MPs that "lex specialis" is not a newspaper in our political system. It seems to me that the first "lex specialis" in Serbia's recent history was thus baptized and written by Ratko Markovic in 1996, correcting irregularities in the local elections in 1996. It was then that angry cure on the angry wound that stopped some of the processes that were rightly happening at the time. In this way, this law is the new angry grass for an angry wound and for irregularities that occurred in privatisations under the existing Privatisation Act, which left people out of work, which left people without perspective, which was only a burden on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which did not give the possibility of production, did not give our children the opportunity, as Mr Martinovic said. "Lex specialis" should not scare anyone, especially those who, when this "lex specialis" consumed, was good, and now it is not good, especially since I will repeat and repeat to the 95th Amendment, that we have received the support of relevant international institutions – the World Bank, the IMF, the EU, of all those people who really want good for Serbia and Serbia. That's why in voter day, we're going to refuse this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6158	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The People's MP, Dr Marko Atlagic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6159	Dear President, Mr. Minister with Associates, of course, I suggest that this amendment be rejected and that I say in the Voting Day that I will not vote, and I call on MPs of position and opposition not to vote for this amendment. Why? Because the amendments also state in their explanation, if you have read their explanation, that the solutions offered in this proposal for the privatisation law will not lead to better conditions for economic development and the preservation of social stability through the opening of new or preservation of existing jobs. Mr. Chairman, I think, on the contrary. It is just one of the new privatisation models that offers this bill of sale of assets in the privatisation process, which when compared to the sale of assets in the bankruptcy process has exceptional positive effects in the wider business social context precisely through maintaining employment and retaining existing jobs. Why? It is precisely because the sale of assets in the privatisation process, which has its own strategic value in what we have defined, which is re-industrious, because it activates human resources in traditional areas, for example, by safeguarding the personnel structure when it comes to industry. It's very important and very important. On the contrary, however, an existing law that in some ways, not in some way but in fact forces the purchase and sale of assets in a bankruptcy process, does not have that intensity. What's important is, I'm surprised, which is one of the legislators and the university professor, and yesterday he said he'd pull all the amendments just to adopt one. I'm asking him, if students know a 99% response of 100%, he's not denying it, and he's not tearing down a student? Therefore, I suggest that he vote in favour of this amendment and of this law. If he knocks down a student, he's pissed off at those students. I suggest we vote for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6160	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6161	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable fellow Members, I am reporting again on this amendment, eradicating Article 3. The Privatization Act. I think it's the same as in the previous two amendments, first of all, I don't think it's right that in this way we're doing this, because we're all witnessing that the economy in Serbia is in a very difficult situation. We have 584 unfinished privatisations, we have 161 entities in restructuring, so it is very important that this privatisation law is adopted as soon as possible so that we can provide jobs for people, because 400,000 unemployed who were employed in the previous period, that means during the DOS period from 2000 to 2012. I come from the municipality of Srlig, in my municipality we had over 6,000 workers. During the DOS 2002, the first privatisation was made which is very bad, I said earlier "Krzo Svrlig", and later, in 2006, a privatisation of EI "Svrlig", where a privatized company and owners were two young guys who had very strong and powerful people behind them. They took the company, mortgaged the property, took large loans, took from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia large funds, and normally, very quickly drove the company into bankruptcy. It was such a privatisation, and so our people from our municipality, the small municipality of Srlig, lost their jobs. What I'm saying - one small municipality of Svrlig, this applies to another 3,000 companies that are privatized and where this bad privatisation is done. As an MP for the United Peasant Party from the SNS list, of course I will not vote for this amendment and I will not vote for the other 92 amendments, because I think it is crazy and I think we need to adopt this law as soon as possible and all other reform laws, because our country Serbia has to take some quick steps to ensure jobs, that municipalities such as Svrlig are municipalities of a developed type, as they were in the 1980s. We can only do this with these reform laws. As an MP for the United Peasant Party from the SNS list, I will vote in favour of this law and all laws that will give good to our country to Serbia. Also, privatisations made in companies and businesses where agricultural activities were, where cooperatives were, and I represent the peasant party and peasants who worked in these cooperatives and I am sure that they will have a number of companies that are not privatised, which may be among these 584, which will tomorrow have the opportunity to employ some agricultural producer who will open up some dairy, dryer, freezer and where our agricultural producers will be able to give their products. Once again, I will surely vote in favour of the law and all the laws proposed by the Government headed by our Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6162	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. He's using the time of his own MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6163	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Guests, I just wanted to intervene in relation to the importance and importance of the so-called. Lex specialises in 1996 and comparisons to the importance of the law with the position of Article 2 of the proposed privatisation law. I'd like to remind all of us here that there was a lex specialist in 1997, so there wouldn't be any confusion about what the meaning of this kind of law was then and what the law is about with this proposed law on privatisation. Every MP and citizen, I think, needs to understand how he might appreciate whether this bill is worth it. The Honorable chairman, in 1996, took place, following recognition of the actors of these events, the largest, according to they themselves, to claim, election theft in Serbia's history. Four months, I as a first-year student of college studies, then we protested the streets of different cities in Serbia, asking to admit that election theft was committed and that opposition MPs and committees were then given what they deserved in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6164	Mr. Pavicevic, get back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6165	I'm going back to the amendment. This concerns the position of Article 2 of the proposed privatisation law. I'm talking about Lex special. Watch out for the lex special then what's done. That election theft was masked. In fact, there was a way to cover up that election theft was done. Only in that sense, the Honorable Chairman, can I see the connection he made with that law, Mr. Babic, when he spoke, because I can understand that this bill also wants to mask something that was hidden. This wood specialization can really be done, as it was in 1996, but the two amendments to this bill want to prevent it. Gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6166	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The SNS parliamentary group head, MP Zoran Babic, called on the line to mention the names and last names directly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6167	With the suggestion of you, I won't answer the Rules of Procedure, talk about amendments, not pick up amendments and talk about whatever we want. What I'm trying to say is that in this way and in this Lex specialization, nothing is covered up. What I would agree with the previous speaker is that the 1996 events are ugly, in the sense that no theft, and especially election theft, can be good. But in this way, the only way we're going to agree, as this lex specialis detected the theft in the elections, in some way he solved it, this is how we detect the theft that was in the privatisation process in Serbia and we solve it. There, it's a link between two Lex specials between 1996 and 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6168	Thank you, Mr. Granny. National MP Aleksandar Markovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have to point to a breach in article 106. The Rules of Procedure, which says the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I will remind you, Mr. Chairman, that a few days ago you took away my word for not being, in your opinion, the state of debate on amendments, and now you've allowed Mr. Pavicevic to talk about everything, just not the amendment and the agenda point. I appreciate, Mr. Chairman, that Mr. Pavicevic is a professor and he probably has great knowledge, but I urge him to use his knowledge in a better and more noble way, and that is to at least explain to his friend the difference between restructuring and restitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6170	Thank you. Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stoimirović came to the floor You have no right to a replica, you are not mentioned in a negative context, in any other way. [[Vadimir Pavicevic, from place: Please, replica.]] (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) After the injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word is Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6171	Article 107. Mr. Babic and the previous speaker directly mentioned me and misrepresented me. On the basis of Article 104, I have the right to a replica. And you gave Mr. Babic the right to a replica based on the same member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6172	Mr. Pavicevic, Mr. Babić was granted the right to reply because you directly mentioned his name and name. He didn't mention you and you have no right. As chairman, I can interpret that you don't have a chance, he didn't mention...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6173	Please, just ten seconds. Mr. Babic did not mention my name, but he said – a previous speaker. It could only have been me because I spoke before him, Mr. Chairman. The last speaker said directly – Mr Pavicevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6174	Sir, don't be insecure and we as chairman must interpret which speaker was thought or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6175	... So, please, if I don't get a line right now, then this is a violation of all the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6176	Please, be my guest, end the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6177	Please, two minutes just for the replica, I'll do it briefly and concisely. Dear Chairman, thank you very much for your understanding and for the opportunity to use my right to replicate the Rules of Procedure. Two things are important here, I think. One thing is, if anyone in this Assembly has always spoken on the agenda, so it's the two of us, Zoran Zivkovic and me. Any remark that we're not talking about the agenda point doesn't make any sense. The other thing is, I didn't mention Lex specialis here in 1996 first. That's what he did, the Honorable Chairman, precisely Mr. Babic. Since he, in my court, misrepresented some of the things of that time, but also made a good connection with this time, I just wanted to explain it and say that the theft of the election year 1996 was detected by Zoran Zivkovic. These protests started from Nis, we continued in Belgrade, and then Lex specialis wrote a man on behalf of whose party was being held an election theft. I think it's really invisible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6178	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has been made by Professor Dr. Ljubisa Stoimirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If the previous privatisation and bankruptcy laws were good, we wouldn't have come to a situation where we're now voting new laws and we wouldn't have come into the situation if our colleagues had to endure this number of amendments. The task of all of us is to create an environment in a state that will provide conditions for work and prosperity. However, we often forget that obligation. Now I will quote Professor Dusanic, who, eight or more years ago, pointed to the lack of those laws. He says: “After two years of talking about privatisation, which at first looked like a beautiful fairy tale, seems less and less like it. Now we can expect a new story. It'll be a story of bankruptcy, and that story will look like a pretty fairy tale at first. They'll convince us that bankruptcy shouldn't be feared, because only bad owners fail in them, but not bad businesses. They will be taken over by new, better owners, or bad owners, who will replace good ones, and from the sick through bankruptcy we will come to efficient businesses that will increase the number of employees and their salaries. It remains to be seen whether there will be enough of those who will believe the same stories and this new fairy tale. But that's not all, either. The World Oligarchy is already writing a new story that has a work title – international bankruptcy over the countries in charge, which we will soon be able to officially see in action. I want to believe that we will have enough wisdom not to put the country in a state where and above it an international bankruptcy with a bankruptcy manager will be imposed. I want to believe it, but I can't let go of my anxiety. “ This is what Professor Dusanic wrote, who is one of the more famous economists and showed us that we have to make sure that we do not put the country in a position to bring bankruptcy upon it. I want to believe that colleagues with best intentions are giving amendments and trying to help with something called the creation of a new law, but it is evident that they are not coming across our understanding, because these amendments are now contrary to what needs to be given to Serbia and its citizens at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6180	Thank you. The People's MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6181	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected guests, as well as in previous cases and in previous members of this bill, we propose to delete both Article 4 and the name above Article 4, which reads - the principles of privatisation. As part of this article here, six principles of privatisation are defined. We compared it to the existing Privatisation Act, and we have an identical member, even though number 2 in the existing Privatisation Act, with a somewhat expanded circle of principles. We believe that the existing framework is sufficient and that is one of the reasons why we believe that this article should be deleted. However, I think that the debate on this amendment to Article 4 deserves one direction towards a principle that is always most important for the privatisation process, which is respected ministers, the principle of rule of law. In order for us to make good privatisation under any law, we must act in the conditions of the rule of law. Now the question is for us here – how do we appreciate the rule of law in Serbia today? There are two other things I want to say here, I would remind the MPs, especially those who belong to the congregation majority, that we are part of these three draft laws, and even with this bill, we are actually part of a constructive opposition. I remind you that we have agreed with members and members of the Minister's team to accept their justification for amending Article 2. The law on bankruptcy, therefore, shows the will to co-operate, but we believe that this Law on Privatisation cannot be corrected in any way and therefore we have submitted the same amendment, "is deleted on all" and I must remind you, not 94, but all 95 members of the Privatisation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6182	I didn't hear anything. You're lucky. There's a word, Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6183	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, you have missed nothing very much. An analysis of the effects of privatisation in Serbia exists on the Privatisation Agency website, beautifully done, in detail, methodological, comparative analysis and the 1997 law, the 2001 law, shows practically what the consequences are, i.e. what results are related to privatisation. It concludes that from 2006 to 2009, 852 companies are privatised, of which 40% are between 2008 and 2009. But what's interesting is that in 2010 out of 597 transport companies passed about 4.6 billion euros, which is only 7% higher than in 2002. If you compare to 2010 and 2003, then you will see that the substance of these companies, i.e. capital is reduced, property is reduced, traffic has increased by 7%, and that three times more MPs have been fired during that period, and this shows figures that say 137,000 people have been fired from companies that are in privatisation, a117. Thousands of companies, those who haven't privatized. The result of today's, or today's figures, based on this privatisation policy that has lasted 750m euros a year from the budget, of which 200 million years of non-payment of practically public-public liabilities, i.e. budget funds to public enterprises, such as the electricity system, such as the Administration of Income, Taxes and Contributions. The assets of these companies are 6 billion euros and 100,000 people, who are still working in these companies. The commitment we have defined to the Declaration in co-operation with the EU to adopt and define relations regarding the stabilisation and accession of the European Union, we have assigned ourselves the task of simply completing the social property. What we have as a proposal for a new law today, means, no changes and additions, are defined models, methods and measures. Now, let me go back to Article 4. – the principles of privatisation defined by Article 4, which requires an erasure, says – the promoter wants to erase "the creation of conditions for the development of the economy, the reduction of negative financial effects, public security and transparency, the lack of corruption, the formation of a selling price according to fair conditions and the creation of conditions for social stability". If you're looking to erase it all, does that mean that we want to create conditions in which the economy doesn't want to develop in which we want it simply to have no transparency, to increase corruption. Do you want us to create conditions in which we will have social instability? This means that according to this amendment, the proposer wants total instability in the country, lack of the right to advocate, and is less and less willing to reform the country and move forward. I think that MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party simply stand firm in all their exhibitions, that we are as a party, and as a government headquarters, and as someone who has a prime minister on the European path, on the path of economic reforms, that we have received over 50% of the people and that simply all international institutions and all found neighbours in the region have recognised this firm determination to move forward and that no one on that path will simply prevent us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6184	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Articles 6 and 6 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. Like you said. You've reached out. Just to sit down and replace the minister on the bench. The word is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6185	The amendment to Article 5 is of course – it is deleted, because it is a practically repacked Article 3 of the existing Law, and that is, once again, to repeat the essence of our amendments and our desire to indicate that the situation in the Serbian economy is a bad privatisation that has been done somewhere in the last ten years. That means in two years ago she was doing well. I think we have witnesses here of this good privatisation, at least half of these people sitting here working at the Privatisation Agency, and they're also witnesses, and I think the minister himself had a clear picture of what was going on in the Serbian privatisation process. To remind me of January 2002 to March 2004, 1,300 and some businesses were privatized. These are all the wave of good privatisations that have achieved their goal. Among these privatisations there are none that can be called suspicious, there are failures in the sense that the economic operator could not continue his business, but not as a result of the crime in the privatisation process or later, but because he had practically no place on the market and that is more than clear. When you speak, when we all talk about the failures of privatisation, about the difficult situation in the Serbian economy, I completely agree, but don't transfer Mr. Pavicevic and I. Mr Pavicevic entered politics a year ago, when we all went to parliament together four months ago, and I was in politics right now, my first part of politics ended at that time which I could freely do very and subjectively, but I also think objectively to call the golden age of reform in Serbia, that is 2001, 2002 and 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6186	It's been a while. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6187	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on the proposed amendment to be rejected, and I also join the argument that my fellow Members, who have responded in this way to the submission of the amendments and to their respective formulations, particularly this kind of defense, have so far been put forward. I suggest that the amendment be rejected for a number of reasons. Number one, because the amendment proposes to delete something that is very clear and very good and that is said by the amendment's own proposal. Whoever suggests erasing says that this is something that's been taken over from the previous, that is, the current law, that he doesn't see anything controversial there, but to see disputedly what's being transferred from one member to another, that certainly isn't the reason for erasing, and that's not the essence of what's happening today. And what is additionally controversial besides asking to erase something that has no reason to be deleted is the way it's done, and here we're talking about a very principled attitude. I think we talked about this subject a few weeks ago on the second law, and yet on the same problem, which is how the arguments are formed when the amendments are submitted. I am talking about good practice, Madam President, whether or not it is not acceptable for this place to genetically form horrendous amounts of amendments with one and the same explanation as in principle, which is not at all concerned with the essence of the amendment to which it relates, which is simply in principle, as regards the quality of the law, in the manner in which the amendment promoter sees it as to whether or not I have to quote it – "it is such or such a policy". What does that really mean? So that we can challenge the amendments in principle, in general by criticising some policy, are we going to criticise this or that government, this or that promoter tomorrow? What further pulls as a repercussion in the sitting itself? Does the obligation for the amendment promoter to adhere to what he has only explained, which would be logical, which makes sense, which is a good practice, if there is one, and I'm afraid we're losing any contact with good practice today. If you did, if you stuck to your reasoning, it would put us all in a position to attend another day of debate in principle, because that's just the way the argument is. If they don't want to do it, if they want to discuss the amendments themselves, and today we were really in a position to hear each other from the promoters. He doesn't stick to what he's given as a reason to refuse both the Committee and the Government, and what's the point of all this, what's that all about? Does the conclusion that the arguments can contain any text, that it has nothing to do with what is required of the reasons for it. Does it lead to the conclusion that after the discussion that it can have nothing to do with what was put into account, is that what we want to achieve. I hope, frankly, that I do not dispute, on the contrary, I welcome everyone's right to formulate a political attitude and everyone's right to disagree with any law in general. That is why we are here, but there is also an appropriate way to make it known to others and that this position is represented, nor is it disputed by any right to have a problem with whether certain international institutions have shown support in any legal solution or not, even if it has a reserve. That it has a reserve on whether certain legal solutions are useful for Serbian citizens. I also believe that the unequivocally vast majority of the people present here see the real direct usefulness that you could find in just two details just to forget everything else, and that is how much the practical shortcomings of that law that is still in force are improving. How simplistic the procedure is where it is the result of the failure to get the right result and the right solution. But let's forget all that. What if we don't even take care of the way we're trying to get something of our own out? What if we don't take care of the rules about how this place is supposed to work here? I'm only afraid of one chance to talk enough times today at this session here, and that maybe it doesn't worry about whether that address will focus on amendments or there will be stories in principle or something else, like some political careers. Let's forget all that, but that's not the essence of ladies and gentlemen MPs. It's not the essence of our stay in this honorable place. A chance to show up enough times in free minutes. It's not the essence of the opportunity to be seen by people who support us and to conclude that we dress well and speak fluently. The point is to achieve something for our people and what concrete benefit our citizens will see after a full three-hour debate on three members by an identical explanation that has nothing to do with what happens next in the debate. Nothing. So, we have to ask ourselves, let me start by talking to myself, and then to anyone else, what kind of impression should this leave what's going on today on the people who are watching us? How much they'll appreciate us, and if it's our own fault that we're acting, some of us in the way we're acting today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6188	The word is Ljubica Mrdaković-Todorović, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6189	I am reporting on the proposed amendments, all 95 proposed amendments to the independent MPs, for which we will not, of course, vote. I'd like to say something. What the communist system has managed to create and institutionalize after the Second World War in a very short time, we can't demonstrate for nearly three decades. A unique phenomenon of world conditions, so-called social property, hanging on the neck of all of us and the entire state as a ballast to be freed. A number of attempts by the governments so far to deal with the problem and once and for all to shut down the story with that self-rule, have produced no results at worst, and in the best case scenario, partial results. Not to be fooled, the companies that exist today, which are in the social property regime, are burdened by all of us in this country, starting with the state register, which is always there to help, and to workers who have survived for years without any income and work for a certified health book and for a stamp for transport, who live under the minimum of human dignity and who only lead to paper as employees and neither what they have done, nor have they done in recent years, and on regular incomes, without any production, it is illusory to speak, to tax obligations that are accumulated from day to day, without any chance of ever being charged. For this reason, the new privatisation law is tasked with ending the agony of the so-called "prevatation" within a relatively short period of time. social property. Institutes, mechanisms for what has not been decomposed or sold into the depletion of the past years, are foreseen in a clear and less complicated way, a very transparent way to privatise social capital and to keep employees who are still working and are in these businesses, provide new jobs, or to preserve existing jobs. That's why the SNS will support this set of laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6190	The word is Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, four members of this law are essentially connected. The principle of privatisation, the subject of privatisation, the obligation and the time limit of privatisation. When we listen to the discussions of the amendment promoter today, then in one of the previous explanations, we could hear that the rule of law was something that was to be contained in this law. If we start with strategic planning and the idea that strategic planning contains mission and vision, then certainly the mission of this law is what is contained in Article 1 where we say that in the privatisation process we want to change social and public property in companies that own it, in private property. We can argue, but that certainly the principles of privatisation are vision. A vision to which this government, or congregation majority, tells what it wants to achieve by this law. With this law, we want to change key things, things that define themselves as growth and the development of the Serbian economy. When you look at 584 companies today and 161 companies that are in restructuring, you realize that they contribute to the creation of a social gross product at one level that they contribute to. This growth in GDP, the increase in employment levels and monetary stability today is not available. It is indisputable that this law changes both fiscal rules and fiscal effects. If you have companies that we have to change in the ownership structure and that are related from the budget of the Republic of Serbia 800 million dollars, yes, it is our vision and vision of the Government that these 800 million are no longer given from the expenditure side of the budget, but that social separations move to the side to which they need to be. We, of course, if you look at our vision, at the functioning of the principle, say these laws will contribute to increasing stability, economic and social inclusive activities in the functioning of the Serbian state and that is quite normal. We don't think and we don't think it's possible to make it happen in all cases where these companies are going to be privatized, but certainly if we make a move or one case, it's going to be something that this law should work for. The government of the Republic of Serbia in Article 6 in relation to the draft law, amended this law and said – everything we want to do, and what our vision, our function, the mission of this government, this majority of parliament, we will do in a shorter period of time than what we have said in principle. We will do so by 31 December 2015 and it is undeniable that different political parties, different political groups can have different visions and ideas and deadlines to achieve their goals. The proposal makes it clear that the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia want immediate full social reforms that will have as much economic importance as possible in the shortest period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6192	The word has Dr. Alexander Peranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6193	Dear Presidents, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a law before us that is another one in a series of reform laws that will create conditions for a normal, quality and better life in Serbia in the coming period. We also have 95 amendments before us that are proposed to be deleted. It suggests erasing the subject of privatisation. Gentlemen, if we want to erase something that is an object, then what are we actually trying to do? We are trying to challenge Serbia's improvement in reform and progress. What we're hearing today is an extension or just the representation of how they acted during their reign. The town I come from, Shabac, is a real example of something like that. Many privatisations, more than 30,000 workers were out of work, just at the time of the rule of those who are now proposing to delete members of the law. This is completely unacceptable, the people and citizens of Serbia cannot allow this and all of what we are hearing today to erase one, the other and 90 and more members is the way they left hundreds of thousands of people out of work. As they today represent and as they propose to delete members today, it is the subject of eradicating Serbia's economy during their rule and this is absolutely unacceptable. We must not allow the economy to be wiped out and Serbia to be wiped out. Serbia must go in one right direction and must be supported by one reform law, not by such an amendment as the proposing one has given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6194	The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6195	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to propose to my colleagues that this amendment, amendment to Article 5 of the proposed law on privatisation, is, of course, "expunged". I can't accept erasing this member, and here's why. Article 5 of this law, which bears the title "Privatisation Subject", defines very precisely what is the subject of privatisation, what can be the subject of privatisation and what cannot be the subject of privatisation. Therefore, social, i.e. public capital and assets in enterprises, public capital expressed in shares or shares, shares and shares transferred to the Privatisation Agency after the termination of the contract on the sale of capital, shares and share of the Action Fund, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and the PIO Fund, are all subject to privatisation and this member regulates it very well and in detail. That is why I propose that this amendment be rejected and I hope that we will refuse to do so in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6196	The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6197	Your Honor, I have to intervene now because we have been discussing the content of Article 5, which Mr. Zivkovic explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6198	No, you weren't careful, 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6199	No, we can check that out. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: No, please, the last speaker is... )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6200	You have colleagues following the session and they didn't suggest anything to me. You two are wrong right now. I'm very happy to do it. I don't care what we wipe out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6201	We skipped article six, and he's the most important thing we've got here right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6202	I believe so, but you weren't paying attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6203	Yes, we've been careful, please check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6204	Please sit down, just to get the right information. Thanks for the suggestion. Do you want to be kind, that's why we're being served, and they say we're discussing this amendment, it's no problem at all. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Remember what the last speaker said. Now we'll see, maybe he was wrong. Nejko Jovanovic, we read number 6, he said with his hand that he didn't want to discuss it, you're wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6205	Nejko Jovanovic submitted an amendment to Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6206	I understand all of you, but if the services they're tracking also say you're wrong, really by the end of the law we'll find it if something's missed, everyone's gonna be extremely tolerated, but everyone's saying it's not missed, we're gonna look for a stenogram, it's gonna be okay, don't get upset, there's 90 and something. The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment. I've read this, the Committee's position. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6207	Thank you very much. Of course we didn't talk about article 6, just before, but you'll see it in the stenogram analysis, and that's no problem. It's a little bit of a problem that it's the only member in this law that makes sense, and this law was supposed to be called the Law amending the Law on Privatisation and only to change this member that defines the deadline for privatisation, I'm talking about Article 6, because that's the point. The original 2001 law had a deadline of 31 December 2004 and it was moved later for completely pointless reasons, and that is one of the factors why this situation was made in the Serbian economy and it was not done at the time when I was involved in politics, and for Mr Pavicevic, we said that he was not in politics at the time. But to move to Article 7, which, of course, is reassuranced in a different way by Article 5 of the previous law, which is, of course, the reason to delete it is, of course, not to interrupt the privatisation process, but to break the farce where the repacking of the old law allegedly offers a completely new solution. See Article 7 and compare it, if you have followed or if you have a member of the 5th previous law, the current law, and you will see that it is the same. Let me tell you one more thing, which is that the reasons for the government, which rejects our identical amendments, are all the same, so if you're transferring something to us that you have no reason to transfer, you're doing the same thing to the government for no big reason, and in the very text of the argument, there's a third paragraph that's very interesting, but I don't have time to explain it right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6208	The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6209	I would like to take the opportunity to respond in this case to the amendment and to the comment of the applicant for Article 7. First of all, I would like to comment on this question that this law is not so different from the previous one and that there was no need to pass it as a law at all, i.e. That's a small difference. I really think that, although there are enough solutions that are identical or similar to the previous law and that it is logical that the essence of privatisation does not change, the difference that exists between this law and the previous, or the difference in procedure is a nuance, but as the French would say, the physiology of a woman and a man differs very little, but lived that difference. The fundamental difference is that this law is asking the question, come on, suggest, come on, say the ideas and the means that you have how we can save what hasn't moved out of place by now for several years. That's a very important difference. In this context, I must respond to the comment that to the extent that there is a difference, it opens privatisation of greater corruption compared to the previous law. The amendments themselves said that the previous law was applied first in one way and then in another way. The law cannot prevent, I think, and that is where I would like to respond to the comment "Transparency of Serbia" that there is, of course, a space for corruption in this law. Listen, if we close down all the businesses tomorrow, fire all the people and say, "Nothing moves."
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6210	It's been two minutes. Thank you. The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6211	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished ministers and guests, colleagues Zivkovic and Pavicevic have submitted an amendment to delete Article 7 which defines the authority responsible for implementing and controlling the privatisation process, which is the Privatisation Agency. The other national authorities and institutions, at the request of the Agency, shall, without charge, provide the information necessary for the provision of assistance, professional and technical, in order to make privatisation more efficient. The main idea of the proposal for this law is to apply the proposed measures to companies with sustainable business and thus create conditions for the development of this privatised enterprise itself, and thus to the development of the entire economy. Just because another ex ante assessment of business sustainability will be carried out, together with information from letters on the intentions of potential investors, may be a guarantee that the right decisions on modelling, method, measure in these companies will be established. The new law will allow solving current problems due to failed privatisation of companies, which have accumulated and thus create conditions for social stability. Therefore, I propose that SNS MPs not support this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6212	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. You have a minute and 35 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6213	Thank you. Given that it is Article 7, whose title is "Privatisation Subjects", which is defined in the first position – the Privatisation Agency is the legal person who conducts and controls the privatisation process in accordance with the law, I have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister, who I am asking because he is not the Minister of Economy, he made the claim, but I have no chance of asking him. In the principle debate, he said the Agency could be a promoter of bankruptcy or privatisation. Since I haven't been able to figure out the conditions in which the Agency is a bankruptcy promoter, then I would ask to clarify the dilemma. Otherwise, the Minister of Business also spoke of this law as a need to create a purgatory, quoting, or purgatory from the "Divine Comedy". When we look at all the provisions of the law, I'm afraid we don't extend the limbo to 160 plus 600 companies. I failed to reach out to the Minister with a question and on the support of the World Bank on the amount of money and a reasonable offer that we want to explain that there would not really be a limbo for companies that under this law can be privatised in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6214	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6215	We have now and under this amendment even had the situation that the minister had to report and explain the difference in the nuances between the current bill and this which is now the bill and once again confirms what I was saying, which is why all previous amendments of the two independent MPs should also be rejected and all others. I am even sorry that we pay this much attention to it, but we need to protect the integrity of the National Assembly and the House when someone writes 95 amendments to 95 members of the law that require erasure. I'll remind you once again what our Rules of Procedure in Rule 161 says. "Amendment is a proposal to amend and supplement the bill." So we're not talking about a valid one. A new bill has been submitted. The legitimate majority, the legitimate government passed a bill based on the will of the people, i.e. Serbian citizens in the election. Article 162 states in one part – an explanation which contains an explanation of the proposed solution and an objective which is intended to be achieved by the adoption of amendments. If the aim is not to adopt this law, it is said in a principled debate. Serious people, serious MPs taking care of citizens, the cost of parliament and everything else say in the principle debate. They say that they are against, they vote in the day to vote against, and they are not discussing it according to each amendment per person, so that this amendment should absolutely be rejected, as well as everyone else, but I think it is necessary for the MPs who are members of the SNS, and of course all other serious MPs, to point out this anomaly and this non-seriousness of the two MPs so that this thing doesn't happen to us again. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6216	Who broke the Rules of Procedure? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Article 104) Rules of Procedure. Mr. Shormaz said I was insecure. He didn't say. If I'd heard it, I'd have reacted right away. He didn't really say. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: He said, "The applicant of the amendment". There's a transporter here. He wasn't explicit. Don't recognize yourself. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: You accept that we are serious? I accept that all MPs are serious. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure now. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6217	Given that my colleague Shormaz is literally quoting me, I will only repeat once more that there has been an abuse of procedural powers, and these procedural powers are contained in the Rules of Procedure as a procedural and legal norm. Indeed, the promoter here took advantage of one possibility that undoubtedly represents a democratic principle, to highlight the amendments. It's not disputed to stand out, but not this way. If the aim is to devalue the law, to dissuade all norms from the proposed text of the law, then it could have been done without this many amendments and without spending so much time and energy on all of us MPs in this assembly. What is important is to point out, some of the representatives of the opposition have been pointed out which they can hardly agree on, which is that there is a threat to the state unless these amendments are allegedly accepted. Is it possible that something like this could have been expressed as a finding? The danger to the state unless these amendments are accepted and, on the other hand, there is no threat to the state if one law of the 2001 law survives. What's the problem here? Is this about absurdities or is it about reality and real facts? With the new proposed text of the law, we eliminate everything that has been generated as a problem by the 2001 law. The main problem is the lack of control mechanisms, lack of insight into the implementation of privatisation, lack of insight into the realisation of the contract. All this proposed text of the law represents something that is eliminated and better and better-quality solutions are given. Is it possible to support the position, to support the position of the promoter, which also improves these provisions, qualitatively improving? How many broken-downs, how many privatisations were cancelled, were said many times here and colleagues from SNS and colleagues Martinovic spoke of it, and I will not repeat it, I just have to point to one fact. If in time, when the Privatisation Agency were managed by someone else, and not by anyone in the ruling coalition, that was when the control mechanism was put in place to monitor both the privatisation entities and the way privatisation is implemented, we today would not have a problem and the need to pass such a law, but would be satisfied by the fact that privatisation has been successfully implemented, that we do not today have wildly empty drives, that we do not have devastated companies today and that we have a large number of employees today. What we're talking about can come down to a simple sentence. This law is necessary, this law is a reform law, this law requires the EU, this law contributes to the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation, and it is inevitable that all MPs are thinking in this direction, not that thinking is going in the direction of how to devalue and reason something that implies principles that accept EU economic and legal standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6218	Thank you. The names above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is proposed by the amendment by Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6219	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, Ms. Udovici, the Honorable Guests, we have submitted the amendment to Article 8 and I would like to comment on the content of Article 8. The proposal of the Privatisation Act, only to note that, apart from the principle of argument, we should not adopt a new proposal of the Privatisation Act at all, for each member here recently, we have prepared a special argument as to why each of these members should not be in the Privatisation Act. Here, for example. I have two additional notes that I can think of to be useful. First of all, in our debate here between MPs, and then perhaps for the people who perform here on behalf of the government. For example, it says the privatisation models are this one, and that one, so one of them is the sale of property. I noticed, analyzing the content of this law and the entire history of the privatisation process here, that the greatest criticism, e.g. This model of privatisation, it did once come from those people who today most advocate adoption, among other things, and the contents of this member of the law. There's a kind of inconsistencies. We're about to be consistent entirely. There's one more important thing, and it's about the fourth model mentioned here, and it's a strategic partnership. Gentlemen, a strategic partnership in the conditions of the secured rule of law of a developed democracy, of course, can bring some interest and benefits, but in conditions in which we, very, respected Mrs. Udovici, are far from applying all the elements of the rule of law. The strategic partnership we've already had with the Fiat, with Etyhad, can actually be bad for us. In these examples, in our understanding, they were bad. That's why we have our doubts about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6220	The word has a minister in the government, Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6221	So, answer to the comments on this amendment, why it is submitted, and the comments that have been made, I can continue the argument that I started for a little while. The only way, and maybe it wouldn't work either, if we completely ruled out the possibility of privatisation corruption would be if we just shut down and didn't give any property to anyone, and then I think at night she'd be withdrawing property from some kind of stopped enterprise. The only chance we have today for a relatively small number, a small part of the company that will privatize under this law, to continue to extract from them, that is to re-extract true economic benefits, development effects on the ground, is to open ourselves to flexible forms and possibilities. This law is necessary and possible today. I agree that the previous law was a good law when it was passed. It was then necessary to privatise, as mentioned, thousands of enterprises. At that time, the capacities, both on the side of the government and on the side of the control that the opposition and the non-governmental sector needed to provide, were much weaker than today. Also, some of the negative consequences of previous laws are being resolved today in this assembly by adopting, for example, the bankruptcy law. The problem that existed in the environment, for example, that the connected faces could have been in bankruptcy to benefit, even though they destroyed the privatisation company. That should change in the bankruptcy law. It's one example of how it's not just up to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6222	The word has a folk MP Jelena Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6223	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I am very pleased that fellow Members of the People and Proposers of this amendment appear and speak so confidently about their amendments. Just for the sake of Serbian citizens, I'd like to read what it is to delete. Privatisation models are sales of capital - deleted, sale of assets - deleted, transfer of capital without compensation – deleted, strategic partnership – deleted. I will refer to the principles of privatisation, which were in Article 4. Maybe if in the privatisation models in Article 8, as the fifth model, there was some oral contract, maybe it wouldn't have been deleted, but we're not going to talk about it. The principles of privatisation, the creation of conditions for the development of the economy – wipe out, public security and transparency – are deleted, the disabling of corruption – is deleted, the formation of a selling price according to fair market conditions – deleted, the creation of conditions for social stability – is deleted. You know, I was a little worried, given that one of the MPs, these groups of two MPs, held high positions in the DS, even served as prime minister of the Republic of Serbia from 2003 to 2004. I'd just like to remind you that in 2003, by some statistics, there was a triple number of privatized enterprises. In 2003 709 companies were privatised, and in 2004 238. I think it's clear to the citizens of Serbia why we're in such a difficult situation, why there are only 28 successful privatisations, why factories are closed, why workers are on the streets, why workers don't receive salaries. I think every further explanation is why the SNS won't support this amendment, too high. We fight for Serbia, not for personal interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6224	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica. You have no basis for replication. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6225	I thank you, I use the time of the parliamentary group. The proof of this discussion is that it's a good thing we're going to explain everything to people. I will quote again the economy minister who said this yesterday -- both of these laws, the Minister of Business said in principle that both the Law on Privatisation and Change and the Supplements to the Bank of Serbia's budget has been related to people who have been in Serbia's budget since December 2007. I quote his words – so far they haven't had a job, and from now on they won't even have a salary, you can check in the stenogram. So I ask everyone who participates in this debate to decide, or the minister is right, and then we won't vote, no one for the law, or the minister is right, so we'll vote for the law. Under the law, 57,000 plus 30,000 workers will remain on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, where, to remove any dilemma, I do not advocate such a solution, nor did I advocate it in 2012 or 2010. But it's not freedom of speech to lie about what's verifiable. So, this Law on Privatisation and Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Serbia should solve a huge problem concerning 584 plus 161 companies with cancelled privatisations and a total annual expenditure in the budget of the Republic of Serbia of about $600m, which is paid to people who, again, based on decisions and laws in which we have participated since 2007, receive salaries. Minister, I quote, they haven't had any work to do yet, and from now on they won't have any pay. But there are plans, and we have no reason to suspect that plans exist, that they find jobs faster once they've been out of work for at least seven years, so they don't have a salary to be employed. All the optimism that's legitimate, so it's perfectly legitimate that when you're representing the law, and you're defending it, or you're trying to support the government, to do it in the most beautiful way possible, as legitimately as anyone else who reads it says -- wait for this nowhere in the law, then why are we talking about it? So it's perfectly legitimate to have a plan to get people employed, but it's not legitimate to say that it's done to these laws, because it's not done. So I would ask all of us to take care of the public spoken word, to remember that everything we say here is part of a stenogram and that the ease by which we quote what we like to be the consequence of the law, unfortunately for all of us, is often in the process of the real consequences of the law. My proposal has been for every announcement, and there will be an explanation of its amendments, that we understand that stubbornness and the arrangement that you are doing this law with jobs, that this Law on Privatisation eliminates the errors of earlier privatisations, therefore insisting on such an argument is not good for anyone. Whoever wants to support this law is free to do so, but who won't also be free to point out that even after this law is passed, we have a common problem. No one's at a loss. If we don't know the details of the plan and how nearly 100,000 people who are going to lose their pay, and they're already out of work, how will they be insured? There are no guarantees, no eternal security, but in what way will we MPs keep an eye on the plan in detail and that those within a period of three, six months or a year will still find a job. It's my request to both colleagues and anyone who uses an argument that's easy to make sure it doesn't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6226	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6227	I cannot agree with the amendment and the proposal to delete Article 8 because Article 8 introduces models and defines what are the models of privatisation. It is a good thing that this range of privatisation models is as large as possible, and I see that in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency there are almost 600 companies with 88,000 employees, which is easier and faster to get to work and to work, to earn, to continue production and to continue to work and to live. Of course, of all these models, I personally give the greatest agreement to the strategic partnership model, which, when it comes to former JAT, has shown to the current Er Serbia and the strategic partnership with Etyhad that 55m euros per year have been sucked out of the Republic of Serbia's budget that it has become a profitable firm. In other things, today we will have the opportunity to get answers from the prime minister about the very elements of the contract and what it means to be a real strategic partnership when a company is dissipated unfortunately, we get a respectable company. I hope that this path will be chosen and won by most of these, not only by companies located in restructuring but also by other companies located in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency. On the other hand, she burned the ears of a sentence used by an esteemed colleague, that you had nothing to do so far, and from now on you won't even get paid. You know, someone who doesn't have a job, who doesn't work where he can take it, who can make sure someone doesn't work without getting paid? What's that worth? I think it's a non-serious policy that's been led in our country. This unserious policy began in 2002 modestly, in 2003, but in particular in 2008, with me more than 60 companies as introduced into the restructuring process, when messages were sent to employees in these companies – working, you do not get paid. That salary and those expenses were paid out of the budget. It's taken from what's healthy, given to those who haven't worked, it's burdened with the budget, it's burdened with the economy, and I think it's unsustainable. A message that says - who does not work cannot expect to have a salary because it is normal and it is something that applies to everyone and everyone. Of course it will apply in Serbia as well. This law on privatisation, and the law on bankruptcy, are laws that are on not only the agenda of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, which are on the reform path that Serbia is on, are on the path of life which is necessary to return to the Serbian economy, not to give money for social peace and for lack of political knowledge to put an end to the process. These are laws that open the perspective of the Serbian economy, these are laws that create an atmosphere for people to come to Serbia to buy businesses, to continue production. That's why erasing Article 8 which would also erase privatisation models, I think is ultimately unserious and unacceptable for SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6228	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6229	The words that disrupted the auditorium, that the workers had no business so far, and from now on they should have no salary, are not mine. Those are words said yesterday by Minister of Industry Dusan Vujovic. What I need to quote is easy to check in the stenogram. So I wouldn't say it, but if the minister said it, it's a public word, and I just said it again. So I'd like to pray that we all listen carefully to each other, we all benefit from each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6230	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6231	You're a good substitute for thesis. I'm just saying it's normal for someone who doesn't work not to be able to even receive a salary. It's perfectly normal and it's also a minister's line. What someone is trying to scare Serbian citizens by not having a job so far and those who have not had a job so far will not even have a salary is a terrible thing, because so far, the salary has been secured by the government and the former regime putting its hand in the pocket of Serbian citizens, a healthy part of the economy, to give to the unhealthy one. Because he didn't want to get rid of them, because he didn't want to pass this privatisation law, because he was hiding behind money that wasn't theirs. It's normal in any company, in any society, anywhere in the world, if it's not done -- you have nothing to receive. What's wrong with that? In this way, I didn't wrest at the words of Minister Vujovic, I support this, I sign these words. What bothers me is that it bothers someone, someone to say it – it's okay, you can don't work, and you'll get paid from the budget. In this way, 780,000 people, unfortunately, are used to not doing anything or most of them not doing anything and getting paid, and yet adding 88,000 people to companies in restructuring and privatisation. How much longer? From where? Do we have business activities that can follow that? We don't. This law is a law that paints reality and the words of Mr. Minister are absolutely right and I can stop and sign those words.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6232	Thank you, Mr. Granny. National MP Borislav Stefanovic came to the floor. The time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that this amendment and the whole law and all this is said here in the sense that there is a clear link between employment prosperity, solving problems in large systems that we have not been able to solve so far, putting our hands in the pocket by the former regime, and the current regime is deeply, putting its hand in the public's pocket, shows essentially that some representatives of the majority, especially previous speakers, are only dealing with claims that are great and that I would even say, well elaborated, but there's nothing behind what it supports. We don't hear any evidence. We don't have any evidence, any empirical, any representation, any number that we keep asking for days to let us see the relationship between that prosperity of employment, the growth of standards and this law. We keep asking you that. Minister Vujovic says well – we will provide you with the analysis, it will be done, and I trust him, but I also believe what he said, and you are angry, so that's what Minister Vujovic said yesterday. I agree with you, if you are so sure of what you say, go to Krusik, take Minister Gasic. Minister Gasic went to Krusik the other day, which is an important factory for the whole region, and he says – no one will touch you, we take you off the minimumer, otherwise the workers, just so you know, they don't work, and they're getting paid, so go to "Krusik" with Gasic and say – you won't get paid anymore because you don't, and what you don't do, we can't find a market for you, we can't find anywhere to place your product that's of strategic interest. You tell them you won't get paid anymore, because you don't. Tell many others in Serbia. Tell the people in JAT Etihad, 36 million made JAT loses a yearly euro. Today, Etihad "Er Serbia" is making over 70m euros in losses, twice as much. And you're bragging about what a great job it is. Wait, please, these are exact things. Serbian citizens over 60m euros pay annually out of their pocket for the company, whose contract, of course, is already known, no one has seen except a few people. How can you? Do not get up immediately and constantly start talking - in the previous period of the former regime. Get the men to solve one thing from your portfolio. I agree, a large number of workers are getting paid, and it's not working. Go and tell them that. You said the opposite of the campaign. You said -- we'll secure the market, we'll secure the placement, we'll modernise the production process, we'll settle these things. What are you talking about someone hiring? You're talking about it? Look at today's data, your data, your state.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6234	Mr Stefanovic is currently on the amendment to Article 8 submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6235	Let's at least be specific about that. The amendment is in a deep relationship, in a clean and clear connection with everything Mr. Babic said and in that sense I welcome it, to him. I love his exposure. I'm taking the exact same ferry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6236	Thank you. The head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, reported. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6237	I'd just like to ask my previous esteemed speaker to remember what he's saying. I know that often in a parliamentary debate and because of speed, a certain mistake is made, but if he made a mistake in two days and that mistake is worth 30m euros, there is little. Speaking so inspired against "Etihad", against "Er Serbia", against the modernization of a company that is now safe and happy to fly, which has increased the number of passengers and the number of flights, the company with which we will have a direct flight to the United States next year, and I can see that it bothers the previous speaker, the company that until last year, the citizens of Serbia's state cost 55m euros, so if with that 55m euros, it has made the loss of another 50, and you see at which stage it is, that in that heat of struggle and debate, it said it had lost 40m euros last year. I memorized that information well, and I'll also look for a stenogram to remind him. He said 70 today. Is that gonna mean he's gonna say what tomorrow? Don't let us get on with some things we don't know, don't use some data for political theatre and get some small points, but we're saying this in public. Remember, it's said. I'll be standing here calm and steady in a year. Then we'll see the indicators of this privatisation law. The empire that shows that the previous law was not good is 584 firms that were not privatised, is 161 firms in restructuring, is 800m euros, as much as these companies cost directly or indirectly Serbian citizens. That's why it's necessary to change the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6238	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6239	Replica
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6240	You have no right to a replica. On behalf of members of the 9th and Article 9th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6241	Thank you, Chairman. Article 9 is part of a pool of members of the 10th and 11th existing law with one innovation, which is that instead of the privatisation method through the transfer of capital without compensation, so far it has been a solution to transfer it without compensation to employees and citizens of Serbia, depending on what is the object of privatisation. The solution remains to be passed on to non-refundable employees, but instead of Serbian citizens it is introduced to strategic investors in accordance with this law and regulations that determine the incentive of direct investment. That's what we're talking about, it's one of the members who creates conditions for a hidden direct settlement that of course didn't exist in the existing law, which, of course, never existed until now, which existed in the draft of this law that this government has proposed, so on the pressure or call of mind, it would have been too obvious, but this is one of the roads, one of the holes that allows direct bargaining. Finally, since they were two minutes short, the trip to New York existed in 2003, direct, to remind you, and I am glad that Vice President Udovici said that the privatisation in 2002, 2003 and 2004, at the beginning of 2004, was good and that the law was good, because I would not expect another from a respected vice president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6242	Thank you. The word has a minister, Cory Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6243	So this law brings flexibility, which at the beginning of the two thousand would not be possible, we would be tampered with at that time with 2,000 companies and more for privatisation and thus could not be managed. Unfortunately, today it's necessary and possible, because it's the only way to get out of one piece, and I don't think that's going to be a very big part, these 161 enterprises in restructuring, are still going to have a development effect. It means to save production, work and one part of employment, and when the work and part of employment is saved, it will have developmental effects and wider and will produce time-consuming employment. This is good law. It contains several solutions that also reduce the possibility of abuse, such as a request for registration of assets over which there is a ban on selling, during the time of the sale ban. I must also thank the MPs of the New Democratic Party who have proposed an amendment that has been adopted, which will be made public by public publication on the Agency and the Government's website. As I once said, there is no law that can completely eliminate the possibility of corruption. It is said that it depends primarily on the way it is done, but also the way it is controlled and above all the transparency of the process that this law is now providing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6244	Thank you. The word is Mr. Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6245	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable citizens, this is a kind of precedent to bring amendments to each point of the law to a complete one. Since the beginning of this building, even a small group of MPs have failed to submit all amendments to one law. I wouldn't be surprised by one MP, independent, but I'm surprised by the other. But probably the other one affects the first one, the first one, and this is the result of that result. So, this law is transparent, bringing in something that can't be passed by now and that can't be done. Let me just read what the proposer says at point 9 of the law. It says – the method of privatisation, the method of selling capital and property is public collection of offers with public competition. Capital, the privatisation entity expressed in actions can be sold: “under point 1 – according to the law governing the market in securities of value; under point 2 – acceptance of bids for takeover, in accordance with the law governing the takeover of stock companies, and the privatisation method through transfer of capital,” etc., etc., all transparently or, as our Serbian people say, publicly. You see now the amendment that two independent MPs have submitted, saying that everything is deleted. Then this law wouldn't exist if all of this were erased and we were paranoidally to accept their proposals, then we'd stay on the previous law, and for the second time we'd ruin this country. In reason of Article 9, they say – we believe that the solutions offered by the Privatisation Law will not lead to better conditions for economic development and the preservation of social stability through the creation of new or preservation of existing jobs. And the previous member of the Government's Bill of Law says there will be both employment and layoffs. It is further said – which is not achieved by stabilising the macroeconomic environment. So the macroeconomic environment of the previous government was not created. What do we have to do with the new law? Further – because there is no responsible economic policy. How can we see now, through this law, that this economic policy is not good and that this law of ours is not good? So, this is really one precedent and regardless of the Rules of Procedure and whatever other regulations of the Serbian Parliament, I think this should be dealt with by someone who is authorized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6246	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 1800 hours, or 19.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 10th and Article 10th of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Ms. Udovici and the Honored Other Guests, I have two comments on our amendment, as some sort of additional clarification to Article 10. A proposal for a privatisation law sent by the government to the Assembly. In Article 10, the term of Article 10 is a combination of multiple models and methods. And then it writes – in the privatisation process it is possible to apply a combination of several privatisation methods and models to make this process more efficient. Two things. First, this term “combination” in the name, including in the text, in Article 10, may sound one way or another. I, of course, read what the combination could mean, here, and in the Serbian dictionary, to make it all clear, and I found that instead of saying "combination", which, in most citizens, certainly causes that other association, and when we take into account all of our comments of this bill and its contents, then the picture is complete here. Our proposal would be that instead of saying "combination", it says: "jointing", which is the true meaning of it. Then it would be: "jointing more models and methods". I think that would be fine. Secondly, I would like to give a commendation here to the MPs of the congregation, although I do not know how much it means. We finally came to this, and it turns out that today was a way to properly comment on, read, interpret and amend the laws that come from the government. We are finally able to go member by member and citizens to explain what's wrong, what's wrong, and what needs to be changed. Unfortunately, this bill should be completely deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6248	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6249	Mr President-in-Office, Madam Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find this amendment unacceptable, as well as the other 94 amendments of the individual Members of Parliament, because they are mostly poorly explained. And not only that, they're all the same, and here we get some completely different arguments, which I find extremely unserious. Extremely unserious towards this honorable home and extremely unserious towards all citizens of Serbia. Because Serbian citizens expect the opposition to be a constructive opposition. An opposition that will suggest something better, not just buy itself time for all sorts of stories. I think it would be good for the independent MPs to stop this practice, because it could happen in the next losing elections and this promotion of support that they have now received and not only that, but that they lose and support the parties that have passed this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6250	Thank you. You're reporting for an amendment? Replica? You can get the amendment, but you can use the time you have. There you go. That's the only way you can get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6251	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman and the Honorable Guests, I must now say I did not understand Mr. Micino. We've just shown that this is a way of reading a member per member of a bill here in the Assembly, we're debated, we're checking each other, we're proposing better solutions, and I'm saying, well done, and you're taking part in it. Mr. Micin says -- no, no, no, I don't want to participate in the debate, I don't care if a Serbian citizen hears everything in every single member here. I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6252	Thank you. On what grounds? (Sarko Micin, from the place: Replica, I was directly called by the name. ) Don't please now, there's no need for replication. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6253	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Honored Chairman, Honored Mrs. Udovici, Honored Guests, Article 11, has a name – measures for preparing and discharging the obligations of the Privatisation Subject. This article is now talking about these measures, etc., that I am not wasting my time right now and not wasting my time reading the contents of Article 11. Several MPs, here I must now remind myself, in the argument of the reasoning of our amendment to Article 11, it was here that when we say, "decease," it actually comes down to our discussion here and our position above all, that by erasing everything through one fundamental debate, we show that it was necessary only to change the existing Privatisation Act, not to adopt a completely new one. So I'm very sorry that we didn't get a chance, maybe it was a technical mistake, to explain one of our terrible dilemmas that we had, about Article 6, for example, where we accepted, we wanted to accept Article 6, so we had a dilemma about whether we were writing an amendment to the content of a member that was acceptable to us. Then, as a responsible and constructive opposition, gentlemen here, we have concluded that if this assembly were to happen most, in some context, or government, accept all of our amendments, then the entire Privatisation Act would actually be reduced to Article 6 and then the whole privatisation would just mean that the privatisation ends by the end of December 2015. As responsible people, then we have made an amendment to that article, including Article 11. Gentlemen, this is what I mean, an example of constructive action in this assembly, openness, transparency and changing what needs to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6254	Thank you. The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6255	Unfortunately, Ms. Comic is not here right now, and I am not sure if she will return, and I would still like to answer questions about this amendment, which again points to some dilemmas that have also emerged in the issues of Mrs. Comic. The first question is, when does the Privatisation Agency start bankruptcy? That question is clearly answered in Article 80. All cases and the most important case are listed if the deadline is due by the end of 2015 and the privatisation is not completed. That's the answer to the first question. To the second question, whether purgatory will turn into limbo, the answer to that question is in the previous one, therefore not. Limbo, or undefined company status in the privatisation process, can last for the longest time by the end of 2015, and it is very likely that a certain number will last much shorter, because at a time when there is no credible programme and a proposal for a method and a measure of privatisation can be initiated already bankruptcy. Finally, the question of the World Bank's loan to support development policies. This loan is granted on the basis of, or granted on the basis of, the quality of the policies. He is on the table and absolutely this law was an important step in granting this loan and in the context of further negotiations with both the World Bank and the IMF.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6256	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6257	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm a mathematician by vocality, and I'm going to assume about the National Assembly that today, on all these 95 amendments in constructive dialogue, we said yes. Then what would happen? In mathematics, there is a law called the Law of Counterposition, that if you assume something incorrect, you will never come to the right conclusion. I do that a lot in my life. Let's assume that today we've done the great pleasure of the promoter, which is the result. The result of all this is that there remains an old law that has disastrous results, and Serbia has no time for such a game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6258	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mrs Udovici and other guests, we have submitted an amendment to Article 12 of this bill, which treats the buyer in the privatisation process, and here in this article it is defined who can be the buyer, who can't be the buyer and we have other than that principled remark that the whole of the law should not be adopted, I have two additional remarks. One, it seems to us, that one argument in favour of just maybe changing the existing law somewhere is that it is very similar to that of Article 12, which is the same as what is written in the existing law, is Articles 12, 12a and 12b. So we don't have any big changes to say here, so let's say the whole new law has to be passed. There's another thing that's important to me, and here I'm responding to Mrs. Udovici's performance, you said this proposal provides flexibility as one principle that needs to help the whole privatisation thing end in a good way. But I also have one remark here. For example, your principles in this proposal of the privatisation law are defined in Article 4. In this article, among the six principles none refers to flexibility. So, flexibility is not recorded as such, and the existing Privatisation Act, here I am now reading Article 2 that says – privatisation is based on the following principles: creating conditions for the development of economy and social stability, public security, forming a selling price according to market conditions and fourth principle, as a principle particularly isolated and stated, flexibility. In this bill that came to the congregation of things among the principles, and principles are important, these are the foundations of some content, some law, there is none. I therefore use this as an argument that a new law on privatisation should not have been proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6260	The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6261	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister and Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, according to the methodology and the drafting of the law adopted by this assembly in 2010 is said if one third or more of the members of the law in force before this proposed law is passed, it is not going to amend and supplement the law, but rather going to the draft new law. We have a situation at this point that we have before us the Law on Privatisation, not on Amendments and Supplements, because fundamentally I said that we are changing this law on privatisation, because it is one of the sets of laws that we have proposed in the pre-election campaign, and it is about reforming the entire economic system in Serbia, which is calling for us to create a new business environment in which both foreign and domestic investors will come, to invest money in new plants, in new jobs. That's what we promised, which is why the citizens of Serbia voted. Of course, this amendment will not be accepted and I will not vote on the amendment in the day of voting, so as not to spend the electricity of this National Assembly and spend the money of the Republic of Serbia's budget beneficiaries. I think we should protect this patent when it comes to erasing, or making a proposal to delete the amendment, because I see that two innovators did it with the Media Act, so tomorrow we're going to have the same thing, just as far as other laws are concerned. This is briefly and simply called exhibitionism and political exhibitionism. I'd just like to read what erasure is all about. It refers to deleting Article 12, which lists who cannot be a customer in the privatisation process, which will follow the adoption of this law. These are domestic legal entities that operate on the majority social capital, such as natural, legal persons and legal persons who, according to the privatization entity, have reached and have not settled obligations. A natural person, a legal person and the founder of a legal person with whom a sale contract has been terminated and four, a natural person convicted of a crime against life and body, crimes against property, crimes against business, crimes against official duty, crimes against human health and crimes against the public order of peace, who have been threatened with a sentence of five years or more severe punishment, or who have been prosecuted for these crimes. So, if we were to delete this member, then all these people, all these people who are legally convicted of serious crimes, where a sentence of up to five years or more is threatened, would be able to buy businesses, which is in some previous period and was done. Also, all those who owe on all sides have not reconciled their commitment, they can also appear as buyers, so I fear that the idea of the people who have made this proposal is precisely to protect these people, these kind of axes, these kind of con men, these criminals, who have done so in the previous period. I am interested as a MP here and therefore will vote in favour of the Law on Privatisation, what will we do with the workers of the Jumka, workers of Simpa, the Welder, the HiVA, the MIVA, the Rasadnika from the Vranjska Banja, because when I return they will ask me what this law means, what does the Labour Act mean. I've been answering all these questions, and I'm saying, professionally and politically, and as a man who has two sons, who's worried about getting a job tomorrow. I will vote for this law because it creates an opportunity for competition and fighting to reach a job, not to wait for a job, to go to a job. We lead an aggressive policy as a government, we will always support such a government as a parliamentary group, and in voting day I will give my vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6262	On what basis are you answering Mr. Pavicevic? (Employor Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I have the time of my own MP, I have another minute, so you told me, let me explain. You have the right to contact only once, and you have used it rightly. Come on, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6263	I will now tell you, according to the Rules of Procedure – an independent MP has the right for five minutes in the amendment debate, and these five minutes can be shared if he wishes to make a statement, just to clarify. Just one brief intervention compared to what Mr Nikolic said. Mr. Nikolic, please inform yourself as part of the preparation for participation in the work of the National Assembly. Zoran Zivkovic and I have not submitted as many amendments as members have on all media laws. In our principle debate here, we have even given conditional support to these bill proposals, provided, it is conditional support that the Government accepts our 15 amendments to all three media laws, because we believe that through these amendments we can really fix all these laws. We also told Mr Vujovic here, Mr Nikolic, that we are giving conditional support to the draft bankruptcy law and that we have submitted only one amendment there. We have a reason why this amendment cannot be accepted and we will vote in favour of this bill. Mr. Nikolic, I think it's a matter of some kind of responsibility for each and every one of us to inform each other here, like the two of us, that he's only telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6264	There's no need to replicate, Mr. Nikolic, please give up the replica, he did, but it's not that offensive. The word is by MP Mirjana Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6265	Dear Minister, I would like to point out that the law on privatisation and how important it is, that Serbia finally stands on its right feet and that we finally start hiring our fellow citizens. As for Article 12 and how significant, evil and wrong it is if we were to delete this member or if we were to make some changes, for the simple reason why it is and how important who can buy in the country of Serbia. Why? Because so far we've had practice that our companies have been buying people with suspicious capital, it wasn't a practice in every privatization, it's been happening, but I'm going to set an example of my city of Chačka, where some people can buy certain information houses and underage children, which is incomprehensible at this point. What was the fate of these privatized enterprises? I have to say that these companies have failed, so of the three newsrooms, there's only one newspaper living today. My personal opinion and I think it's the opinion and commitment of the SNS that we will never again support such privatisations. And how important it is to know what money is bought and who buys it, and whether or not that company can move on. Giving businesses to certain people, who have nothing to do with a particular company, or having certain work experience, when it comes to these companies, will not lead Serbia forward. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6266	The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6267	Thank you, Chairman, I just want to commend the government for accepting our amendment, which was intended primarily for the fact that agricultural land in the Republic of Serbia cannot be bought by foreigners. So you dealt with the Constitution, because the Constitution predicts that agricultural land cannot buy foreign faces. Thank you for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6268	He has a word, MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6269	Thank you. I'd like to say a few words about this amendment, first of all you should know that the Union of Duke Hungarians is the same against our natural treasure, agricultural land to be sold or to be given the land to buy a foreign or physical face. Here in this explanation, it says that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the agreement states that by 2017, foreign persons have the same rights as our natural persons, or companies to buy agricultural land. So far, it's been a bad practice for a natural person to team up with a foreign physical person and form a company and that firm could buy any company that owned the land. So the land was sold by law. Unfortunately, we can and can do it today so they can buy land, so, like our citizens, but they have the funds of foreign relatives or firms or anything. So this amendment, we think, is in some sense accepted by the government, but it doesn't give a solution to this problem. As I said, unfortunately it doesn't give a solution that our legal or natural persons can buy land with other people's money, so, with money from foreign investors or foreign companies or foreign individuals. It's good to say that a domestic buyer or a domestic natural person can buy land, but it's not exactly defined under what conditions. Our parliamentary group has been in this problem for years, and we have prepared a solution, a complete solution to this problem in the proposal for a law in agricultural land, because there we will specify that, for example, a natural person who deals with agriculture, means he has a farm or a farm for five years now, that he can buy land or if the company was founded five years ago in that area, in that municipality where land is sold or possibly if we look at the headquarters of a company or the residence of a domestic natural person, that he can buy land around that residence about 20 kilometers around the area. These are examples that our neighbors built to solve the problem of buying land from foreign individuals. So, only domestic natural persons can buy land like that. I think this amendment is in some way, I'm not saying it's not true, but I can say that with this amendment, it's a public deception. Our citizens will think that only they can buy land, but in fact they can buy land that has money from foreign relatives or foreign companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6270	Mr. People's MP Zoltan, I'm rejecting your time as an authorised representative. Thank you. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6271	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12 because of my opinions, which I do not think consortiums should appear as customers in the privatisation process. Why? Because so far we have had many bad experiences with them, because relations between consortiums have been legally undefined, because they have slowed down many privatisations, because contracts for many privatisations have been broken and we have had long court processes and I am not sure that the new law can in any way regulate relations in the consortium itself. I am sorry that this amendment has not been accepted, I felt that I should once again explain the reasons why I submitted this amendment and also take the opportunity to thank the government for the four other amendments I have made to this law. It is very important that by accepting these amendments, the Government has actually understood my intention to only help these amendments make the law as clear and more applied in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6272	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6273	Thank you very much. Of course, there's an amendment here - to erase. Of course, our intensity that by erasing all the members of this law shows that the existing law was quite sufficient legal framework to end the privatisation process in case it was carried out consistently, that means legally and without exception and that they prevented all the criminal acts that naturally took place in this process, especially from the half of 2004 until today. The Agency for the Prevention of Money Laundering has existed since 2001 or 2002. It was founded in this home when the Federal Parliament was here and I took part in it, so all these protection mechanisms were possible under the old law. What's interesting is these are the reasons I just pointed out that our amendments are being rejected, such as our amendments are practically very similar only to the regular number of members. All arguments are the same, and one part of the government's argument why our amendments are being rejected – the idea of the bill is that the proposed models and measures are applied only to companies with sustainable business. In these definitions, Article 2 does not say what sustainable business is. Who estimates, by what methodology, what standard is sustainable business and what is not? It is also a good condition that this law is used as a basis for corruption. I don't think that's the intention of the minister and you sitting next to him, but I'm telling you there's a great opportunity for corruption and crime. I'll continue with this explanation later.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6274	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6275	Yes, by amendment, of course. This Article 13 whose removal by amendment is required has four positions. The first of those four attitudes I think is also the most important and I would like to and personally think that the opinion of the promoter of this amendment is to erase this first position, I suppose, because it would be a very different mistake, and this is that before the contract is concluded, the Agency is getting from the competent organisation to prevent money laundering opinions on the absence of interference on the part of the customer, i.e. the strategic investor for the conclusion of the contract – point. Is this how the bill promoter thinks that everyone with a bag of money, obtained perhaps in a bad way, perhaps by reselling drugs, perhaps by kidnappings, we have seen what was in the past, that in such a way by eradicating this whole member, and in this way the first attitude that anyone who comes with a bag of money obtained from crime, obtained from drug trafficking comes to buy through Serbia, to legalise their money, I think it was the time that Saric bought property through Vojvodina, and that no one asked him anything and that he was a respected Mr. Investor, I would not like to return to this amendment at that time, because by erasing and eradicating Article 13 and Article 13 first, I cannot possibly interpret him except that the promoter of this amendment wishes otherwise. The bill promoter says – the existence must be established, i.e. the confirmation of the origin of the money, whether there is any interference about money laundering, and the amendment promoter says - no, we don't need it, let's let the drug dealers buy a little bit, let's let someone else who acquired capital in some other way. That's why I think the amendment promoter made this amendment by mistake. We can discuss both the second and the third and the fourth attitudes, but I don't think anyone can put a question mark on that first position, because when someone proposes to delete, I can only interpret it in a way that we don't need that proof of the origin of the money. I think it is necessary, therefore, to call on the amendment's promoter to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6276	Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6277	I think this is another one in a series of deliberately incorrect interpretations. Of course, it is not the goal of allowing money laundering in Serbia. I repeat, I was in the federal government that proposed the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and formed a Commission on the Prevention of Money Laundering. Under the law and in the work of the commission, there is every legal basis to prevent money laundering in Serbia. Why isn't that stopped, it's a question for those who allowed it. I'm waiting for the fight against crime, which was promised two years ago, intensely, which I've been representing my entire life, to be particularly happy that it's intensified, at least on the words of the last two years, to come to an example and see in prison someone who's guilty of some bad privatisation, of laundering money, or of any abuse. I am one of the most interested in it, because their work since 2004 has compromised what I entered politics and compromised what many people have fought for who have given their lives to achieve this policy and compromised what people have fought for, for these bright goals on October 05th. I have the greatest interest in those who have compromised all these ideals and all those goals, as soon as possible behind the lock. My return to politics is for the cause and that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6278	Thank you. Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6279	I suppose these words of the amendment promoter are a confirmation of my previous words and mean that this amendment is withdrawn, because I have not heard a single argument that should not be stated in the law that before the conclusion of the contract the Agency obtains from the competent organisation to prevent money laundering from having an opinion on the absence of such an act. As for the fight against crime and corruption, it is all in words only for the past two years, because our country's irrelevant international organisations placed 86th in the fight against crime and corruption, last in Europe, among the last in the world, that in 2014, we have made 14 places and that we are 72 now, but what you won't hear from me, you won't hear from any man who is responsible for politics, which is sending it behind the lock. He does not send politics behind the lock, nor send messengers behind the lock. This isn't a courtroom. We don't judge, we don't defend anyone. I will not interfere with the judicial and investigative authorities of our country because politics has no right to such a thing. I believe that. What politics has brought, what the SNS has brought, what Mr. Alexander Vucic has brought is a zero tolerance policy for crime and corruption, and that there is no protection in this fight against crime and corruption, no matter how much money we have, no matter how much money we have, no matter how much they come back or whether they have had in politics or any membership card. It is the policy of SNS and Alexander Vukic, as well as that everyone does their job and that in these investigations, which are at least 24 controversial privatisations of completed investigation, court proceedings, neither am I entitled nor will I influence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6280	By amendment, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6281	Thank you. I confirm the impression that this amendment should not be accepted. I repeat that we cannot accept the oral reasoning we have just received, because it is principled and gives no good reason why we would accept something that implies the elimination of the obligation to do a verification by the Money Laundering Agency, which is not in agreement with the proposed written explanation, which is also principled. I underline the need to take business seriously, because a concrete job is not a principle debate, a concrete job is a debate on concrete amendments and what results from what the amendment promoter actually wrote down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6282	By amendment, MP Janko Veselinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6283	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, has raised the issue of fighting corruption and money laundering. That's certainly an important question. The channels of corruption and money laundering tend to find some shortcuts and some paths that are not within the legal framework. In this debate, it may be important to include an answer to a question raised these days that many do not have an answer to. I suppose Minister Vujovic has, and it concerns possible indications that in Serbia, through the form of paying off enormous earnings to managers, money is being laundered. We also have reports from last year that individual workers, managers, received monthly salaries of over 200,000 euros. This question depends not on any political option, but rather on the question of the minister and his associates, since I see that the minister is likely to be the new finance minister, to check whether this method of payout over a certain amount, with taxes of only 10% to 15%, has created the ability to launder money, because there are companies that thus draw money out of the account, sometimes damaging and trusting people through payments to managers and this truly small taxed part is the best way to get the money out of the account. Minister Vujovic, are you going to do something to finally resolve this dilemma whether it's really management salaries or whether it's money laundering? It's not an individual case. It's a mass phenomenon. I'm going back to the beginning, the money channels have found some way, found a certain hole in the law, and thus avoid taxing those funds. Maybe that's the answer from the high-level manager's salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6284	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6285	I thank you for this comment. I think it's been noticed a long time. I still don't have that jurisdiction. I think this is a good question and that it may appear within the most recent time before the MPs of the Assembly, but in some other light, not as part of this member. I think this member confirms the proposal that the Agency's opinion on the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing should be applied in all laws. I think we should introduce that to tax laws. In other words, let's do everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen. Thank you for your suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6286	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6287	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, this is a key law, as we have said, to save our economy and finally get conditions for economic development. It is true that all MPs can submit a series of amendments and that we can discuss them, but as far as this amendment and the Proposer himself are concerned, I have heard wonderful things here and I really congratulate you, and that is to say that finally those responsible for the failed privatisations come where they belong, to answer for it. I'm glad you're a fighter, an honest fighter for a healthier Serbian economy. I don't understand how you were on the list of those responsible for those privatisations. Was it just a moment where you wanted to enter this parliament, because you're saying you're fighting for the Serbian economy and finally the ones who ruined it, and we know who's in the majority part responsible for it, and then you go on their list and you get into this parliament? You should have gone as a new party, a party that offers new ideas, and we saw today the 95 amendments you offer, which is – deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6288	Mr. Jovicic, let anyone go to any party, it's not the subject of debate. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6289	Thank you. Thank you for your concern about the political fate of the political idea and the political organization I represent and lead. I mean, here I am now not being modest, that's not necessary, because for ten years I've been out of politics, I'm back in politics. I was on the list of people that no one, as far as I know, was here or Mrs. Comic or other members of the party that was on that list, accused of any crime, nor is any investigation conducted against them. Unlike some family members or members of your MPs' club, some are on the run, some are there, some are here, some are talking about privatisation, so they're gone. Mr. Stevanović, if I am not mistaken, and Mr. Nikolic, who participated in privatisation under the old law, which I know from some other parties, when they deliberately advocated applying everything that you and I are now condemning together. Therefore, do not worry about my political destiny, and the message to voters is for past elections, and that has already passed, but for the future, when you vote do not worry about the fate of politicians, worry about your destiny. When you vote, you define your destiny, not the fate of this politician or that politician. Thank you. (Alexander Jovičić, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6290	Don't, Mr. Jovic. You've caused a replica. (Alexander Jovicic, from the place: I am right. If you like, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6291	Thank you, Chairman. I have special sympathy for you. Perhaps Mr. Zivkovic in those ten years, in his rest from politics, did not see that the party on whose list he was, made it possible for some people who would end up where they belong and who would be subject to the procedure, that they had allowed all citizens to reach some benefits and some privatisations, which were corrupt, that thanks to these people, who run the list, Serbia had come to such a difficult situation, that unemployment grew from 14% to 26%. I said you were a fighter for a healthy Serbian economy, but I'm just a little worried and weird that you just went on that list. Perhaps you could do another, given that there were several other parties from the party after which they also advocated a better Serbian economy. You just went to Dragan Gilas and Mr Pajtic, and we know that in Vojvodina we have the "Vojvodine Development Bank", a fund that was robbed, one region that was the richest, and today is the poorest. That's all I've come to doubt your intentions, but you have a chance to show that your intentions are fair and fair in this conference, because it's going to take another three and a half years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6292	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6293	I repeat, I am very pleased that many colleagues confirm with their inspirational discussions the importance of these amendments that Mr Pavicevic and I have submitted. This has obviously caused interest that speaks of the quality of these amendments and the thinking that, if we agree on it, it is our common goal, which is to somehow find salvation for those 85.90,100 thousand people who have stayed in those 600 and some businesses. If it's common to us, you think it's meant to be solved by a new bill, and we think that this new bill is just one estranged event, that it's actually a recycled old law, which could have been consistently implemented to lead to the same goal, which you're in favour of. This is a set of three laws, where we support two. The bankruptcy law, unfortunately, today is the only cure for the largest number of enterprises left unprivatised. It's a clear economic logic and it's being taught at an economists' entertainment site. There is no doubt that our intention is good, and that here we want to point out that, once again, recycled estrace law will not contribute, and in it, not by the minister's intention, but I'm afraid of someone else's intention, they create conditions for corruption. The Deputy Prime Minister said there is no law that absolutely rules out the possibility of corruption. It's a very dangerous statement and it comes from the government that you defend and that you represent. I think it's one dangerous statement and we can't talk like that. The laws can't be flexible. The basic objective of the law is to be very clear and precise. The flexibility of the law is lawlessness, and you stand for flexibility in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6294	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6295	I'm advertising Article 107(1). I think it's a violation of dignity, or you've violated Article 107(1). Because you didn't warn the speaker when he treated some of the MPs of the SNS with extreme malice, generalizing certain things on the entire parliamentary group, with enough courage to defuse himself with people who weren't in the O.R., and they were just up and coming back again. I will remind you, too, because you were present, as well as the Serbian public, the relationship between SNS and crime, according to corruption is zero tolerance. In the previous meeting of the National Assembly, in one difficult day and at a difficult session for the SNS, we abolished the immunity of MP Dragan Tomic, the SNS MP, so that the judicial authorities might not mind doing their job. That's the attitude of the SNS. Can one party in the past work be praised by such a relationship, by such an attitude? He can't. Therefore, by imputing and burdening the SNS of such things or individuals when they are not there, I think that's how the dignity of the National Assembly was violated, Mr. Chairman. You must have MPs, who are late to warn you of such things and take away your word for it, to introduce this session into normal flows. I did for facing attitudes, opinions in 94 or 194 or a million and 94 amendments, but mentioning it in this way, not based on the truth, is really inappropriate to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6296	And again, even though I've repeated it several times, it's not my place to determine the truth. I have to admit, I didn't understand the purpose of advertising the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to vote on a voter's day to plead? (No) The word has the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6297	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I see nothing wrong in this famous article 13. It is required to examine the origin of capital that needs to be privatised. I don't know what's going on here. Is it disputed that some who were involved in large tobacco trades during the government from 2001 to 2003, when they bought some of the most serious agricultural industrial combinations? I think some of the "Fast" cigarettes were at stake. Where'd you get that kind of capital? Also, is this a surrogate law compared to the previous Privatisation Act, i.e. the one that was brought in back in 2002 or 2003, I can't remember exactly when the value of capital, the subject matter of privatisation and its initial price is determined by the accounting value of capital, which is 10 times lower than the actual market value of capital, and then the initial price was 20% or 1/5, means one 50th part of the market value of capital? This was also prescribed in the next Privatisation Act, thus privatising Serbia's economy. Now that you buy something with a lot less money than it really costs, you make an economic account. Maybe it's better to fire the workers, stop the activity of the subject of privatisation, and make housing buildings on the property of the subject of privatisation. Because, my God, it's going to be a lot faster to make money, or to resell the production parts to a number of wholes, so that more money can be made. These are the results of the Privatisation Act, which defends itself by this amendment to Article 13. These are the greatest achievements we've achieved in our privatisation so far. Because someone was buying something cheap in depravity, suspicious capital, because they never worked in that business. He didn't have any touch points with that activity, he doesn't know anything about it. It was important to buy cheap, money of suspicious origin, and sell as expensive as possible, no matter what the fate of those workers was. That's where the 400,000 new unemployed come from. We may be able to blame those who bought such enterprises, but I think the governments that proposed such laws are far more responsible, and those MPs who supported both such governments and such laws. That's why I don't think an amendment like this should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6298	The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers and the Honorable Guests, we have tabled an amendment to Article 14 and to discuss this amendment, I would like to point out two additional things that I think may be important. In our attempt to convince the government's representatives here, above all, the minister, to the end of this amendment's debate, that perhaps he might give up this proposal of the Privatisation Act. As for Article 14, we are not satisfied with the argument given by the Government. This is the argument that stood out in the explanation for the submission of the Privatisation Act, where it is said to be a stable macro-economic environment and responsible economic policy, in fact what now provides for the adoption of a new law on privatisation, and then everything will be resolved. We don't think those grades are correct. I can here, to discuss this amendment just to show that the very fact that we had one minister of economy, and now the finance minister, and now some kind of rock in the government after the election, is that stabilisation and responsibility are not some categories that we can link to the adoption of this Privatisation Law proposal. Second thing, I just have to tell Mr. People's MPs, for example. in Article 14, if it writes in the first sentence, the participant in the privatisation process shall have the right to object to the legality of the procedure carried out within eight days of the date of the proceedings. Just because we say that this attitude as well as all the views of this member should be deleted does not necessarily mean that we consider that the content of an attitude is bad or unacceptable, but then we direct the MPs to the existing Privatisation Act that implies mainly such things, and if we do not adopt this law we do not remain clean. We have an existing law that we can abide by. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6300	The word is made by MP Vladimir Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6301	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 14. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, independent MPs have submitted an amendment that is absolutely unacceptable, and I must stress, no matter what, as well as all the other 94 amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation. Simply, without an adequate explanation in terms of the amendment, they are not adequate that we can discuss them this way. Article 14 refers to the objection of the participants in the procedure. It is clearly defined that the period of appeal is eight days, that the complaint is submitted to the competent ministry through the Privatisation Agency and it is clearly specified that the reply is delivered within eight days and that any legal person who submits the complaint has the right to appeal and initiate proceedings at the competent court. I think the amendment's intention was to sort of take away this Parliament's time, and I think it's very valuable for us, and that we should respect it in the next period, so that we don't have time to go the way it was for the past 12 years. What I would also like to point out in particular is true, one of the previous speakers made it clear that the election of MPs on the amendment proposal is his free choice. I couldn't agree more, but in this way, I don't think we're going to get a concrete proposal in terms of the amendments, because the amendment serves to make certain failures, if they exist in the law or something that isn't foreseen by law, in the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6302	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6303	I wanted to submit an amendment to Article 14 in the same text, to delete it, but I want there to be a measure of objection. I haven't been able to find a good form to change the amendment, but this debate about it is a reason for an explanation everyone can benefit from. It is the position of Article 14(2), which says - the complaint is submitted to the Ministry of Business Affairs, via the Agency. I didn't have time to explain it well enough, so please give an answer now what does that mean – through the Agency? Does it mean the Agency can decide which objection will be forwarded or not, which I doubt is the idea of a member of the law. Does it mean that the Agency must be informed that any participant has a lawsuit because it implies after the administrative dispute? I repeat, I failed to give a formula that would leave out any dilemma. What does it mean to say that the objection is submitted to the Ministry and through the Agency? He can't do that with sublegals. I mean, if that's the answer, then I'll remind you that the resolution on the legislative activity of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in June 2013, obliges all the proposings to submit sublegal acts together with a bill or notice why they can't. But I think this is important because of the possibility of disputes, which I don't hope for, and because the objector then has other laws on grounds for administrative dispute. So, what does it mean that the objection is submitted to the Ministry of Business through the agency?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6304	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6305	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a clean second-degree procedure in Article 14 of the bill, which, among other things, is regulated by the Administrative Procedure Act, because many laws rely on this administrative procedure and it is regulated. Now imagine the next situation to be directly referred to by the competent ministry. The competent ministry must send a request to the Agency to deliver the files on the subject of the objection and then decide to return only the files, but not the result of the complaint or how we will discuss it. So, the normal way is to make a complaint to the authority that has adopted a certain act, and he is obliged to submit with all the files to the second-degree decision-making body. I think it's so regulated and there's so much legal practice, the law on administrative procedure is I think one of the oldest laws we have. There's absolutely everything regulated. The problem may be with administrative courts that seem unable to implement the Law on Administrative Procedure, but that's another topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6306	By amendment, Mrs. Comic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6307	I don't know why the minister won't give me an answer. If there were any words that we weren't good, what to do to you, you're a minister, I'm a national MP. I do not consider the explanation given by my fellow MP to be binding on anyone, but I do insist on your answer, because I think it is a common benefit. So, by means of the agency, to make a complaint about what it means, and how will the agency act? If you say it clearly here, I think we're all winning, whatever the answer is, especially what could be the source of many disputes, unnecessary for interpreting the attitude we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6308	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6309	I would like to give a brief answer, although this proposal has not been submitted in the form of an amendment and therefore does not appear directly under discussion. The amendment is just to delete this member. I want to answer you, in the current practice of the agency, the agency appears with first-degree authorities, the ministry appears with second-degree bodies, as a colleague has already explained. Objections to the second-degree body are addressed through the first-degree body, hence, the complaint is submitted via the agency as a first-degree body, the ministry decides as a second-degree body in this situation. If you want a written explanation, we'll send it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6310	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6311	Thank you very much. In this article, which of course existed and in the current law is defined as paying for privatisation and is of course paid for by dinars and foreign exchanges. There could hardly be a third solution. Of course we're looking for an erasure, not because we're against privatisation being paid, but because it's pointless to recycle a good solution in a law that, I repeat, could have been good enough to be legally implemented. To read again what I just pulled out of an explanation for refusing our amendment. Let me repeat - the idea of the bill is that the proposed methods, models and measures are applied only to companies with sustainable business. I asked what that meant. Minister, I'm waiting for an answer. In this respect, another assessment of the sustainability of business will be carried out. What does that mean? Who's doing this? And which, together with the information from the letter on the intentions of potential investors, will serve as the basis for a decision on the model, the method of measure for companies with sustainable business. Three times a term is mentioned that we don't know what it means, and as far as I can see from this, from a letter about the intentions of someone who wants to buy something, the government will choose through its competent bodies which model will be privatized, and yet it depends on someone's assessment, we don't know who, whether these companies can operate on a sustainable basis or not. It's a cat in a sack, it's a dark fairy. It's so flexible that you can hang it on any other side and that's the problem in this law, one of the basic problems, which is that you can create conditions for corruption. Finally, I told the two previous finance and business ministers not to enter this government, because after six months they'll come out of it with the feeling that they've been cheated and I don't want that to happen to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6312	Does anyone else want a word under this amendment? The word is given to the People's MessengerBratimir Vasilivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6313	Since the chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, comparing the proposed Law on Privatisation and comparing it with the amendments, is the impression that serious work is involved, but if we look further at the importance of this law, what it allows, what it brings to businesses and employees in Serbia, there is a clear insight that the objective was obstruction and irresponsible and irresponsible work on amendments only to delay a document of this importance that is needed primarily in the nature of Serbia. No wonder we're looking for an erasure of each individual, from one to 94, if we see applicants seeking to delete these members, we know they've wiped out Serbia's economy, so no wonder what they're asking for and delete these laws, because that's probably what they're after. What is most dangerous is trying to blame the SNS and the Serbian government for trying to make such proposals and laws do everything possible to get the economy out of the dead. I certainly cannot support this amendment, and I believe not all the serious people and MPs in this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6314	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? (No) Members of the 16th and 16th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Mr Minister and the Guests, I believe that here we are by now, and we have reached an amendment to Article 16. The proposal for a law on privatisation has shown how well it is to deal thoroughly with the proposed points of a law that came here to the Assembly. I'd like to point out three things here regarding article 16. It is not our intention to delay the time adoption of this bill, our idea has been here since the first day, when we first addressed the people who came here from the government and from different agencies, to convince them in the course of a few days that we have to discuss that they give up this bill, and we do it now. The second thing, we felt, and it is important here somewhere to record, that the "law-making approach" will not direct us towards those objectives defined in the context of the adoption of this law, or the presentation of this bill in the Serbian Parliament. We also consider the third thing to be related to Article 16. It has been said here that there may be no need to cultivate such an approach, that there are so many amendments, because electricity is being spent in the National Assembly, and therefore the taxpayers' money is being spent, and that means Serbian citizens. That logic, gentlemen, I don't think it's good, because that logic, if we follow it consistently, we can come to the conclusion that maybe parliament shouldn't work at all because it's going to waste some electricity, and that's all going to pay for by some citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen, democracy is an expensive model, but it's the cheapest and best of all and here we have to cultivate it, not endanger it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6316	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6317	The President-in-Office, the position of the 3rd member, speaks of the Minister responsible for business in the economy as a regulation of the amount and type of costs to be recognised at the level of the actual costs set out in Article 1(1). Later members also play a very important role in implementing this law, according to the minister responsible for business affairs. Article 92 speaks of the need for all sublaws to be adopted within 30 days of the date of adoption of this law. There is now a great concern with us, given that in the next few days we will be left without the Minister of Economy, because yesterday we received notice under the law that the minister who is now doing the job of the Minister of Economy is proposed for the Minister of Finance, who will be doing this very responsible job and whether these deadlines will be able to be fulfilled, such as the one that speaks of the way in which the minister in charge of business matters is determined. What are we gonna do, 'cause that minister's probably not gonna be here next week, and the deadlines are gonna start running? Eight days after the publication of this law comes into effect and we can come into a situation where deadlines cannot be met and that this whole extensive business of ending privatisation, as provided for by this law, is not done in time and that at the beginning we will be able to enter into a teat that, given the very short and dynamic deadlines, we will not be able to meet. So, I think it is very important that the government finds an answer to this and finds a solution for the new economy minister, if what the prime minister has sent as MPs is realized, that the minister of the economy, Dusan Vujovic, is appointed finance minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6318	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6319	Thank you. I join the estimates that we are doing this the wrong way, that this amendment should not be accepted for all the reasons we heard today either. Unfortunately, I have to argue further and on the grounds that we demonstrate construction, that we don't do it, we don't keep doing it all day. A constructive approach would certainly be an approach that allows a concrete solution, which deserves to be repaired in any way, to correct a concrete measure and with a clear approach to do so, and that certainly is not erasure for general reasons. Otherwise, so far, the practice of working in this session has shown more than clearly that representatives of the congregation do not have a problem with such an approach, when it is set in the right way, that in many ways we have managed to agree on things that have been shared, that we are unequivocally focused on improvement for our citizens, that we do not have a problem with where the proposals come from, but certainly, especially the one that demonstrates today, is not real and is definitely not something that is proud of who applies it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6320	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Tatomir, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6321	Dear Chairman, I must say that I do not understand at all the motions of this amendment, because Mr Pavicevic gave us a lecture on democratic principles earlier, and in no word did he mention any amendment, nor did you explain your amendment. Neither are we in class, nor are you a professor, so please talk about the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6322	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? (No) Members of the 17th and 17th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6323	Thank you, Chairman. Article 17 defines where the privatisation funds go, as you follow, I hope, so you know. Of course it was contained in the current law, and of course I will use the terms “recyclation” here too, which means in a slightly different way, under some other regular number of members of the law, the same matter is practically processed in the same way. This is a good opportunity to, when talking about some of these bad and good privatisation experiences, reminding me that the privatisation revenues in 2003 were over two billion dollars and that, with Telecom, which took place several years later, I think in 2007, the biggest revenue from privatisation and that all those then privatised legal entities or companies are still working and are all among the first ten tax salaries for Serbia's budget. That and, I think, the prime minister in the exposé pointed out and cited some of them. So, that's another proof to you that the existing law, first of all that original text of it, was a perfectly good framework for solving this problem that we have now, which is the 600 and some unprivitised enterprises, which we heard on the board that at least sixty of them can't be found at the addresses, that twenty-thirty protection workshops for disabled people who are not subject to privatisation, that thirty and something in Kosovo, which means that we can't privatise them there, and that's practically from what's left, and that's about 400, at least half of them are ready for bankruptcy tomorrow. So, as long as we don't raise this discussion and this law of high expectations in those nearly 100,000 people. Unfortunately, there's no such thing as a great fate. I agree it's a big problem, but this isn't the way to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6324	Is anyone else answering this amendment? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were submitted by MP Milan Korac. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 17th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6325	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, our amendment was also related to the distribution of funds based on privatisation revenues. In the previous law and in earlier privatisation laws, it was clearly defined that 10% of the funds are being paid to the Republic Fund responsible for pension and disability insurance, then 50% of the funds will be allocated for financing and restructuring and development of the economy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, 5% of the funds based on compensation of persons whose property is nationalised, 5% for the development of local infrastructure, 30% will be allocated to the government's special decision, but what is most important to us, in case the seat of the privatisation entity on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, 50% of these funds will be allocated to finance and restructuring and development of the economy in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We originally gave this amendment and about the capital, but also about the property. I know that in the event of the sale of the property, it is not possible for a distribution to be carried out this way, given that some falsified bankruptcy is being carried out, and even creditors have to settle down from the process, so we gave the correction, and the rest is that it applies only to social capital. We would like that when it comes to order, and we hope that there will also come the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina to make this matter a little closer to order, but for now we would be happy if this amendment were to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6326	Thank you. Minister Vujovic picked up the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6327	In short, the corrected amendment for this member is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6328	Does anyone else want a word under this amendment? (no) On behalf of members 18th and Article 18th of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6329	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Guests, we have tabled an amendment to Article 18 concerning a public call for letters of interest. That article now describes what all this public call contains. Now I have two notes, an additional one compared to everything we've talked about so far about our amendments and about Article 18. Mr. Orlic said earlier that I, Mr. Zivkovic, lacked constructiveity in the assembly debates, especially today. I believe, Mr. Orlic, that in the way we have explained all the amendments to all the bill proposals that have come to the Assembly so far, we have shown not only constructiveness, but one terrible desire for all legislative proposals to be the best possible. No one here has submitted more amendments than the two of us. None of these amendments have been supported by any of your party's MPs. He probably didn't even think to back it up. I believe, Mr. Orlic, it's an increation on that side of yours. We convinced all reasonable people here, about the driver's license, when it was that bill of amendments to the Traffic Act, that it wasn't cut to eight years, it was 10 years, and we made such a good argument here, and it wasn't accepted. Mr. Orlic, we have submitted all these amendments here and announced the day before yesterday, when we had a debate in principle, that we will invest all our energy to make this legislative proposal, and now in Article 18, we make it much better or better. That's exactly what we're doing right now. That is why I think it is not right to blame the two of us for the inauguration, which we have already voted in favour of the draft law on the councils of the national communities, we will vote in favour of the draft bankruptcy law, but for the proposal for a law on privatisation at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6330	Mr Pavicevic, the Rules of Procedure prohibit direct address to the MPs and I ask you to adhere to these provisions of the Rules of Procedure or I will have to react differently in the future. The right to replica has a Mr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6331	Thank you. It will be brief and definitely in the spirit of good practice where we are. Construction must be seen not only in the desire to achieve a certain effect, but in whether you provide a way to actually achieve a certain effect or eliminate it at the beginning. It is not enough to go out with a story – we want the best. Let's see if it can really be done in practice the way it's done. With this approach, I'm thinking about today, and I don't want to be able to pass on any grudge at all, and I'm going to go through the situations that have been going on in the past, or they're going to come into the future, and we need to determine ourselves honestly, the way it is at the moment it is. So, for all that is achieved by good common forces, every honor, for all that will be achieved well by common forces, it is also an honor. But we have a problem with today's approach. Not the quality of today's approach contained in the number of amendments. There can't be too many of them. The question is what is in them, what is said and what is with them. It is not a constructive approach to be resented and not to provide an opportunity to adopt such objections if necessary. Access to – deletes everything, does not provide that possibility, and I think it is more than clear to the Proposer himself and that there is no need to explain something that he himself understands. This approach does not leave room for a common solution, if necessary. This approach leaves only room to talk again about something, without being able to end differently to, to repeat this opportunity, that the amendment is rejected because it does not provide any other option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6332	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, on what grounds? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica, I have the same right. ) At no point did he mention anything offensive or misread you. You're the one who challenged the line. You even mentioned it yourself. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Please ask Mr. Orlic to whom he speaks. He hasn't spoken to you at any time. There's no need to ask him. It's not a direct address. Please respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure. You've caused a replica. For the first time, I was tolerant, and I was able to give a warning to the Rules of Procedure for direct address. Please, you'll have a chance to discuss and close that answer. The People's MP Dr Predrag Mijatovic has now come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, we've been listening almost all morning to the reasons of the amendment applicants, and I think this amendment, which has been submitted to article 18, if I may say so, all the senseless submission of these kinds of amendments, with the same explanation for each amendment. If we read Article 18, I do not want to read it, although Serbian citizens do not know what it refers to, it refers to the necessary documentation to perform the privatisation, which will require an ad to be held for privatisation and the documentation required for the applicant to apply for privatisation. What's wrong with that? The applicant of the amendment requests that it be deleted. At one point, the applicants of the amendments so far said what they wanted to achieve. So would all of us, and probably the citizens of Serbia who think honestly and positively, probably wonder what the applicants of the amendments wanted to achieve, which is that the privatisation law, which is now in turn and discussed, is withdrawn from the procedure, to continue with the old Privatisation Act that has led to every criminal privatisation in all these years behind us, to all illegal and criminal privatisations. So that's what you'd like to achieve, to withdraw this law, and to continue to buy in dirty money and in an illegal way all the remaining, unfortunately, very few of the remaining companies that this country has. Would you like to do that by deleting all the other points of this law? I think it's unfair and incorrect on your part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6334	Thank you. Is there anyone else answering this amendment for a word? The word has a folk MP, Vesna Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6335	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers and other representatives of the Government, a respected fellow, unfortunately, none of the proposed amendments contains not only valid, but contains no explanation at all, which means that it is essentially not submitted in the form in which it should be submitted. That is why we have had the opportunity to, when explaining each of the amendments submitted, hear that the aim of submitting each of the amendments discussed so far is to convince the Government of the Republic of Serbia to give up the text of the proposed law, and to remain in force of the old Privatisation Act, i.e. until now. That, unfortunately, won't happen. Why? Because the current Privatisation Act has been the greatest evil that could have hit the Republic of Serbia, because before the adoption and entry into force of this law, businesses, we can say, have at least died, and Serbian citizens have died as much as they have today, unfortunately only breathed air.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6336	I ask you to return to the amendment to Article 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6337	Therefore, we will not support both the SNS and I in the voting day, nor will we support this or any of the proposed amendments by the New Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6338	Thank you. I'd like to draw attention to all my fellow MPs. First, when it comes to the submission of the amendments, there are parliamentary committees under the Rules of Procedure which discuss whether the amendments are in line with the Rules of Procedure, the legal system and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What you're saying about an amendment, and you have the right to talk about it, means that it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the legal system and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. What the promoter was going to say with the amendment where he writes – it is deleted, it is his right, its political struggles. That goes for all MPs. I ask you to respect the right of the MPs and say when a member wants to delete, read at least what he wants to delete. Anyone else want a word? (No) We move on to Article 19. The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6339	Article 19 speaks of who initiates the privatisation process, privatisation entities and this is for social property is the ministry responsible for business affairs. As far as public capital is concerned, the government's initiative, AP or local self-government is being launched. A better solution was in the previous law because there were more initiators of the privatisation process, not just the government or the competent authority of local self-government or the AP. So, among other reasons, that's why we're asking for this member's erasure. Thank you to the predecessor who pointed out, and I think she first realized what our goal was. Yes, of course, our goal is to show that this law is an attempt to get through the big fanfare and, let me repeat once again, estradius, as a reform something that is otherwise recycling and repacking of the existing law. Of course, crimes related to privatisation do not stem from the Privatisation Act, but stem from violations of the Privatisation Act and other laws that are close to this area. Finally, with all due respect after 100 days or a little more than we're here, I'd ask you to remember which party is what it's called. My party is called – New Party. In the next twenty years, we'll put you back in the bench...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6340	Please go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6341	... The opposition, so you'll have time to write the right amendments that you now recommend.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6342	Is there anyone else answering the amendment? According to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the previous speaker has violated the dignity of the National Assembly. Take any material from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and you will see that Mr Zivkovic and his colleague are not members of the New Party, but MPs are outside the parliamentary group. The New Party MP will be once the New Party has passed the censorship in the election, some future. A colleague from the SNS parliamentary group has made a mistake. Mr. Zivkovic is definitely not an NDS MP, but is neither a New Party MP, but is an MP outside the parliamentary group. It is now his problem why he brought himself into such a situation, but simply so there is no misunderstanding, the New Party does not have a parliamentary group in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6344	Mr. Martinovic, you have not defined which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken, and I therefore do not think I am obliged to give you an answer to your advertising of the Rules of Procedure. You don't have the right to reply to the Rules of Procedure. I pointed out that my colleague Martinovic did not precisely define which member of the Rules of Procedure had advertised, so I cannot even give him an answer, and we cannot even plead as a Assembly in the voting day that the Rules of Procedure have been violated. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6345	The Honorable Chairman, Article 107(1) says that – a speaker at the Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. You cannot call acts adopted by the highest legislative authority, which is called the National Assembly waste, because recycling is a process of collecting, sorting and treating waste. If we're talking about recycling, then we're talking about the National Assembly, then we're dealing with qualified documents, laws, proposals, amendments to waste. Therefore, we are destroying the National Assembly, its dignity, and I am asking you to respond in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6346	Are you asking that in the voting day be declared Parliament? No, well, thank you. Anyone else want a word? On what grounds? (National Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I have five minutes of parliamentary time. Five minutes of parliamentary time? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6347	I'd like to ask the esteemed previous speaker and everyone else to look in the monitor. Except for my character in good years, you have my name there, and you have the name of the party I belong to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6348	It's been spent 25 seconds since the MP's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6349	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Guests, we have also submitted the amendment to Article 20. Proposal for a privatisation law concerning the census and evaluation. I think today's debate, and this part where I now explain this amendment is a good indicator, how important it is that all MPs and MPs prepare for our parliamentary debates, so that every member of the law will read thoroughly, be informed about it, and then be able to change. Mr. Mijatovic just said that what we are doing is completely pointless. Dear Chairman, I thank you for your comment earlier, when you turned my attention as one trafficker, that I must not address the MPs directly, and I ask you to tell Mr. Mijatovic that it is pointless to mean contrary to common sense. It is an insult, the Honorable Chairman, to every MP in the National Assembly, especially if it is meant that the two of us here are demonstrating real parliamentary work in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6350	Please, Mr. Pavicevic, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6351	I will. Get together, a lot of people say something, then I have to react a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6352	That takes 80 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6353	So, the two things that we, Zoran Zivkovic and I, as MPs of the New Party in the Serbian Parliament, want to achieve by amendment to Article 20, is one, and Mrs Simic understood it very well, I want to tell her here now, by breaking this bill. We do not want this bill passed, but the other thing is informing Serbian citizens and what it says in the bill. This is where the laws arrive by emergency procedure. There is no MP then, let alone a citizen to know what is happening and this is an opportunity, even if the bill is passed, we will be satisfied with this second goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6354	I thank my colleague Pavicevic. I have asked fellow MPs, even if it says that something is deleted to read what is being deleted from the proposed amendment. And so do you as a bearer, I suggest you don't, of course, have to do the same. Right on line, Dr. Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6355	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. If complete hopelessness flows 95 times with the same explanation, then, colleague, it's total nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6356	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted to the title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6357	Thank you. This article defines that the Agency proposes that the Ministry of Business Affairs, the model and the privatisation methods of 45 days, says, if investor interest is shown acceptable and the sustainability of the business of the privatisation entity is positively assessed, that is, what I have already read in the text of the reasoning. Three times the syntagma is repeated – the sustainability of business, because I already asked the minister once, so I would like to get an answer to how you explain it, who is implementing it, by what methodology and by what standards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6358	Thank you. Is anyone else answering this amendment? The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6359	So, to repeat briefly, the meaning of this law that you seem to have failed to notice is that a problem already exists is being solved, and that no problem is being invented, the problem of 584 companies located in a portfolio for the Privatisation Agency, 161, or 162 enterprises that have entered the status of restructuring because they have failed to complete the privatisation and training process for normal economic life under the old Privatisation Act. So the case of justification of this law and the purpose of this law is clearly defined. Secondly, in its current business, especially under this law, the Agency has very clearly defined what this represents, meaning that I quote this member of the law, what is the sustainability of the business of the privatisation entity? This is the ability to produce and sell a product or services on the market, where revenues will be higher than costs, large enough to cover all other expenditure, including salaries of workers, depreciation, normal business, which will be explained and shown to you by each economic textbook. Therefore, it has been mentioned since the sale of products on the market, management, labour force, technology and all other elements that provide continuous business are purely financial difficulties from the past, since this law offers the possibility that financial problems, including state demand problems, commercial creditors, protected creditors, should be resolved during the privatisation process. Therefore, if it is necessary to explain the sublaws and acts of the Agency, we will be very happy to do so, it is very clearly defined. If that's not clear, it's not a matter of law, it's a matter of sublegal acts, methodologies of the Agency and standard economic analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6360	Thank you. The word is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6361	It would be very nice if this was exactly what I heard from the minister. This means that the sustainability of the business of the privatisation entity is that the entity privatises, i.e. a company, manufactures or provides services and charges them on the market by making more income than costs. So what's the problem with this company? Why does she have problems? Then why the law that's supposed to save those 600 firms from problems, if they can do business the way you said? Why haven't they found someone to privatize them by now? Of course that means it in a broader definition, but it is absolutely not the place in this law, because if they were, they would have been privatized long ago and worked very profitablely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6362	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6363	So, I said, there are real economic conditions, it's selling products or services with costs lower than income, I said, not taking into account financial difficulties. Take an example of Galenika, it has an asset worth, it has a product that can be sold, has production costs that are lower than the sale price, but has financial costs that are multiple. It has two-and-a-half times more obligations than the value of the asset. In order for this asset to work, someone must offer a recapitalisation and a solution to the problem two and a half times the financial cost obligations in the privatisation process. As these obligations have arisen, we can answer that. So it came about business failures, due to accumulated liabilities from the past, etc. So this law is trying to solve a situation where there is a healthy economic basis, but there has been a financial situation that the company has put into a situation that can be solved by any bankruptcy, either by privatisation. Here we are trying to solve before bankruptcy, because in bankruptcy everything sells “in a piece. ” This is where the property is sold as property in business. So this isn't just a joke, it's not just about the equipment, it's about the knowledge of Galenika. For years research, Galenika has a number of products that potential investors tell us can be sold on certain markets. If Galenika went bankrupt, it would be sold as a hall, as individual machines, etc. If it were settled in the privatisation process, then property would be purchased with that knowledge, with these immaterial parts of the asset that would remain in action, which would preserve employment, if not in general, most of it. That's a big difference. We could at first actually devote a little time to explain the essence. This is the essence of the difference in the sale of assets offered by this law, which the previous law did not offer. He only offered to sell capital. For Galenika, capital is negative. It cannot be privatized by selling capital. If we single out that 100 and some million estimated assets and add to that the possibility that someone invests 30-40 million, solve the problem 250 million, how many debts they already have in this process, then the Galenika for which we all want to survive can survive. If he goes bankrupt, then we'll sell that hall where someone's gonna make a hotel, apartments, etc. We think it's a missed chance for Serbia. All this time, all we've been talking about is that Galenika gets a real chance to continue to produce drugs, all those we know from childhood, good drugs, good antibiotics, that can be sold to us and other countries, where Serbia has an authorised approach.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6364	Mr. Zivkovic, on what grounds? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Do I have more time? You only have time from the time of the People’s Messenger, of those five minutes. You have four minutes and 35 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6365	Thank you. The Galenika example is very good and of course no one in their right mind wants the company to fail, so whoever is in this Serbia, but this Galenika has come into that position because it is not privatized under the old law, at a time when business nonsense, exhibition, settlement of party, clan, godfather or not knows how. So we have a whole segment of pharmaceuticals that's privatized. Everything that had room on the market has survived and is doing very well today. What was dead 20 years ago is dead today. So that's one problem with that example. Another problem is that most of the other companies, whether there is "Lasta" and "Simpo", all other companies are firms that are difficult to compare with "Gallenika". Finally, the question of who pays those debts? Who is it that was missed to privatize it, according to the old law, at a time when it was supposed to be done, who pays all these debts? The government doesn't pay for that. Neither does the state. That's what Serbian citizens pay for. So let's take these big companies to put aside and explain to me, or I could be referred to a website, a publication where I could get to know what is the methodology and by which standards an assessment of the sustainable business of a privatisation entity is carried out. Otherwise, I don't doubt good intentions. That's what I'm telling you, Minister, and your associates, not the congregation majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6366	The word is made by MP Milan Novakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6367	Dear President, Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I find this amendment totally unacceptable for the simple reason that in this article 21 whoever listened carefully to the reasons of the minister absolutely sees that all the elements of the economic and legal profession have been used. The minister made this very clear in his clarification to the questions asked. So, looking at the previous amendments, I absolutely do not see in any part that the amendment promoter really has any basis in any part of the profession that the SNS advocates, and the minister himself is a non-party figure, whose absolute experience and all the views that have so far been made, I have not been able to hear any fact that it disproves any of the reasons for any of the present to any member of this law, and that it is based on the principles of economic and legal profession. Speaking of professions, one of the promoters is also a lecturer. Imagine when I show up somewhere in his class and I bring these 94 papers and I show the students that every paper says the same thing - it's deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6368	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, on what grounds? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Can I answer, to explain?) ) You cannot explain, you did not even participate in the discussion under this amendment. You can only speak by amendment from the time you have as a People's MP. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Can I replicate? You have no right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6369	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Guest, I understood that the previous speaker was thinking of me when he mentioned a lecturer wearing 95 amendments, and that in each of these 95 amendments he writes, deletes, deletes, deletes. Gentlemen, as a lecturer in the framework, for example, political theories, political history and methodologies and political sciences, I would state this, this case as an example of a good practice of the work of a dedicated MP in the Serbian Parliament, especially when the proposals of the government law come to us by an urgent procedure, all of them, when we find that bill in the morning, when we don't even have time to read it, and then we argue on these drafts of the law, and what is left for us? Then there's one struggle left for us to give ourselves first time to get to know the matter, to know what we're talking about here. Well, we heard here today and some agreement on some possible changes. If it hadn't been for this debate, if there hadn't been a debate of these 20 amendments so far, we wouldn't have been able to do it. Gentlemen, this is democracy. It is important here that your answers to what our amendments are good, and I do not see that these answers are good, neither are yours nor are the Governments compared to this proposal for a law on privatisation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6370	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. And I thank you for this lecture. I understand him completely and in many ways that I agree with you. I would also suggest that you study another phenomenon, which is that it is a session of the Serbian Parliament with a set agenda, and the laws were not in the procedure of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Guests, I will follow your instructions, the Honorable Chairman, and I am grateful for your help in this matter, first and foremost on the interpretation of this amendment to Article 22. There are three things that I particularly want to say, but only for the sake of the MPs of the people, perhaps, because I have doubted one now, who may not have read all these members, as well as the citizens who are following this assembly. Article 22 provides, the title states – the change of the decision on the model and method and then stands two positions. Article 1 ‘If circumstances arise in the implementation of the privatisation process resulting in the implementation of the decision on the model and method not possible, the Agency may propose to amend the decision on the model and the method of the privatisation entity’. Right now, I don't have that under some regular circumstances, we're better, we're not gonna be able to comment on Section 1. Article 2 "The procedure laid down in Article 21 of this Law, which we have already explained, has already been applied to the adoption of new decisions on the model and method, has been applied. We just think that all of this, like a lot of things in this bill, even what it says in Article 22 already exists. Yes, the laws in this National Assembly should be made for marketing purposes, no policy decisions should be made for marketing purposes. The laws must not exist because of the law, but because of the arrangements and resolution of certain problems that we face in society and in the state. The two of us just consider it, and all we've been trying to do all day is explain it. I see some MPs understand that, even from the Progressive Party, but they say they will still vote against it. We only claim – let us use the existing instruments, what already exists in the existing law, and let us not waste time adopting a completely new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6372	Thank you. The People's MP Goran Kovacevic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6373	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 8 clearly defines the models of privatisation. When we talk about privatisation models you say – sales of capital, sale of assets, transfer of capital, strategic partnership. Isn't that right, Minister? We've been hearing about models and methods all day. Gentlemen of the opposition, is there another method and model besides these? Let me remind you, there are two models in economic theory. They have two subgroups. It's said, first model, the privatisation model through sales. In recent history, we are talking about England from 1980, as the beginning of this model, two forms – the issue of shares and the sale of assets applied in Germany, Hungary. It's the first model. Second model – action and voucher privatisation. There's no third model. So, the possibility is that, by combining these two models and those four subgroups, it is found for every company model that will allow as much of that negative capital as possible, if it is possible to preserve and preserve at least one job. I don't see anything controversial about the model and the privatisation method. If the economic theory applies some new one that applies and is practical, your amendments will make sense. At this point, the ministry and the minister, whoever, are applying everything that exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6374	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, on what basis do you want the word? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Based on the time of an independent MP. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6375	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Guest, I agree with Mr Kovacevic. In the good part of his speech, except for the part that makes the conclusion of his speech. Be careful, this model of privatisation, which is the basis of this bill, is not in the sense of its philosophy, of some principles, of a different model than what is the existing Privatisation Act and of the one that was in 2001, and in terms of Article 8, I see no misunderstanding. With regard to Article 8, which you have already mentioned here, we have already announced that Article 8, where these submodels are predicted, as you have called them, but the bill states that these are privatisation models. This morning, in the debate, we had an objection to this 4th submodel – strategic partnership. We have shown that this strategic partnership has already been practiced in the case of the Fiat, in the case of Etihad. This morning we said that the strategic partnership is a good model for those countries, democratic ones, developed in which there is certainly a secure rule of law. We're not that country yet. If we're not such a country, then a strategic partnership can be a very bad model. These two cases rest on the secrecy of the contract, because they are proof of it, Mr. Kovacevic. If something brings general good, why should we hide it from the citizens of Serbia and from the MPs. So I understood that our discussions were very compatible. They're quite consistent, but I, from my position, couldn't accept your conclusion, and that's the only disagreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6376	Mr Pavicevic, again I warn you of direct address to the MP. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6377	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Arsic, was injured by Article 107, or the previous speaker questioned the dignity of the National Assembly when he said Serbia was not a democratic state. I want to draw his attention to the fact that this country has a Constitution and that in Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia stands - the Republic of Serbia is a state of Serbian people and all citizens living in it, based on the rule of law and social justice, the principles of civil democracy, human and minority rights and freedoms and membership of European principles and values. What Mr Pavicevic said is an insult not only to the National Assembly, but to the Republic of Serbia and to all its citizens. I think these words send a very bad message to those we call on to invest in the Republic of Serbia. Imagine the meaning of words – Serbia is the opposite of democracy and rule of law, from the rule of law, and we call on both domestic and foreign investors to invest in such a non-democratic state that does not respect the principles of rule of law, which does not respect human rights, etc. Take care of the words you say. You can hate SNS for all you want, you can disagree with our policy, but there is no right to say that Serbia is not a democratic state and that Serbia is not a state that rests on the rule of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6378	Mr. Martinovic, I don't think there was any damage to article 107. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is true that a colleague has said what you are saying now, but if a fellow MP is sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and has received a mandate in fair and democratic elections, which took place several months ago, he has significantly violated his dignity and integrity, as a scientific worker and a MP, when he calls for dictatorship, or lack of democracy. Do you want us to make a statement on the injury in Vote Day? (No) Dear People's MPs, given that today is the last Thursday of the month, I remind you, in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure, today from 1600 to 19.00 hours, that the members of the government will answer parliamentary questions, and until then I will set a break. We continue work at 19 hours and 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6379	We approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 1900 hours. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister or government under their jurisdiction. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. The President of the National Assembly shall warn the MP who asks a parliamentary question, if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. You have instructions from the Rules of Procedure, you have the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, there's no need for me to read it to you one more time. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. Here are your applications. The question is Zoran Zivkovic. Because we're going from the smallest groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6380	Of course all questions will be asked to the Prime Minister. I think it's the right way to communicate with Parliament and the government, and the Prime Minister himself said he would answer the questions of the MPs, so all questions will be addressed to him. There are more of them, and it concerns what Serbian citizens expect to get today as an answer. There are no questions of interest to me personally, but in the choice of these questions, I was primarily guided by giving answers to all those issues that stand in the Serbian public and we cannot get the final answer to that. First question. The agreements with Etihad, with the Fiata, with NIS, secret contracts, the Prime Minister is still on the campaign, when he was head of his party and candidate for prime minister, said it would be announced by 16 March, then something later, something earlier, in any case from 16 March to the day of today, we did not get those answers. Why isn't it published? What member of any legal act in Serbia allows that? Why are we allowing important questions for this country to run out of answers? When there's something without an answer, there's a lot of doubt about it. It has also been promised that in the first 100 days, the government will be heard and given the correct and true truth about the privatisation of "Politics". It's probably thought of the company "Politika". We haven't heard a word of it, not in public, or in any direct document from the government. At the time of the flood they were still in progress, it was promised at a session whether the Government gave the crisis headquarters an urgent list of all donors who helped with their funds to rebuild the state from the effects of the floods. Until today, we don't have that list. We don't know that 30 million, it seems to me that was collected in this humanitarian way, who gave it, where does that money go, who has that money, and that was promised? The flood report went through the Assembly, and I didn't realize whether it was that report that we were promised would be given when all ministers had time to come and tell us their vision, or whether it was just that 300 document and some pages that I practically compiled various reports of which some were unusable, some boring, some misdefined. So, what about the flood report? It was promised in the first 100 days of the government, the Privatisation Act, the Banking Act. Let's just say it was adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6381	Three minutes are up. You'll get three more. Here you go. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6382	I'm glad we went to work in such a very serious way this afternoon. I will try to answer all the questions Mr. Zivkovic asks and which are being asked in public, because I think it is important that I answer them. For some unknown reason, some people are running away from the answer. Many people, some in the Assembly, some outside the Assembly invent different things about some contracts and I will especially deal with contracts that were signed during my time as Deputy Prime Minister and Prime Minister. Of course, I'll also deal with these contracts that were signed during the time of the party's reign on whose list you've been selected. This refers to "Fiat" and "NIS". So, the Fiat contracts at NIS have been signed by a party on whose list you are selected. I'd just like to ask you, I've been very polite, and I've listened to you very carefully, I'd ask you not to bother me, because I'm trying to answer in a decent and dignified way, and I've never been afraid of primitives. As for the Fiat, unfortunately that contract will not be shown. It is a contract that the state of Serbia spent the most money, convincingly the most money, but unlike irresponsible people, I will not belong to those who will say that it is bad and wrong even though some others are in power, and if we had signed it, we would probably be charged with the biggest and most serious crime possible, but it shows the difference between us and some others. We had to make sure and calculate how much 3,500 employees, how much and the image of Serbia, how much and what we got, 5,000 new cooperative companies and businesses, how many people employed, although we seem to be able to negotiate things better. As for NIS, I, not to you, but to President Vladimir Putin, made our objections to the NIS contract and it was agreed in Moscow. The contract was signed by the government of the parties on whose list you were elected and by another political party. It had nothing to do with me, no negotiations at all, but we fought to get a very good contract on the South Stream, no matter what the start was stupid, so we had 49:51 instead of 50:50. All other conditions are incomparably better for us than Bulgaria, Hungary, which also signed the contract. I expect the working group, as is the case with its friends and what it is with its friends, which are the Serbian and Russian states, to solve certain problems. I can tell you what the biggest problem is. We recognize our debts, but apart from the fact that we recognize and accept our debts, we ask to see and to change the situation of our energy sources. Here I think of oil and gas and only in the first five months of our country, from the Serbian country the difference between the price paid to us and the price handed over to us on the second valve is $483m. These are the data I personally handed over to the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, Dmitri Medvedev, as you can see, I did not act as someone who feared anyone, but in the most direct way I represented Serbia's interests, as I did in both Paris and Berlin and elsewhere. We'll see that these relationships, if possible, change for the better, which you know is not easy, because contracts are very hard, very firm, but we'll do our best to change that. As for the so-called so-called. The Arab contracts, and I'm going to have a chance to hope to talk more about it today, I've prepared. Since these contracts on the "Fiat" and the NIS, first of all, about the "Fiat" we are not able to do because of the other side, and not our sides, so that the citizens of Serbia understand that to show the public, I will wait for our Arab friends, who have given us, by the way, the most money, which you will see from donor funds. I'll ask them to open all the contracts, but I've prepared them today and I'll show you all the elements of the contract. So, I'm not going to read the whole contract so that someone can't tell me that I'm revealing a business secret or that I'm disturbing our Arab friends, but I'm going to give you all the important elements of the contract, so you'll see what lies our political opponents used, what lies some media used to make up, and what all the fictions they made up for some politicians, I guess, starting with the fact that if they're thieves, that everyone else wants to steal and that they're all worse than them. Now you'll hear the following facts. As for "Er Serbia" or "Ita", namely "Ita". Jat had losses every year. Since some of you have today made a statement that "Yat" we are paying, we are paying it from your time to Mr. Zivkovic. We pay all the time. We lost no less than 28m euros a year. Here's your data now. Since "Er Serbia" has taken over, so from the loss of the maximum ones that were, when you add up three months and a year -- 72m euros, so count on 60m euros, they've always gone from 28m to 60m euros. This year, for the first time, the balance sheet, "Er Serbia" and "Jat" will be in plus and will give to the state and money. I want to read to you what was done in the meantime, it is important for the citizens of Serbia to hear. Nine Airships Erbas A319 and 320 were introduced into our fleet, and the average flight age was lowered from the fleet from 26 and a half years to nine and a half years. I don't have to explain it any further. Ten Airbus 320 planes have been ordered, if these are new, I don't know what this tag means, which will be released in 2018. This will mean that "ErSerbia" has the most advanced and when it comes to fuel consumption, the most efficient fleet of small-scale aircraft across the region. Repair of five ATR 72 turboprob aircraft for use on regional lines will achieve compliance with Erbas planes. A total of 38 destinations have been expanded, launched since January 2014, increased ties with neighbouring countries by once again becoming a regional hub, improved ties and increased commercial co-operation with a wider group of partners across Europe. At the same time, the number of passengers in 2014, you will not believe, increased by 70%, to 944 thousand compared to the same period in 2013, and in 2013, from 856 million was increased to a billion and 588 million in 2014, if the account is the same. Freight traffic grew from 32% and grew to 65%, the increase in total financial revenues from 21% to 72m euros during the first half of 2014. The first AFRS revision, these are international standards of financial reporting, on the "Yat" was successfully completed in 2014, which guarantees that "Er Serbia" is working with a clear balance sheet. As far as people are concerned, over 300 new crew members have been employed since the beginning of work, in October 2013. Ten graduate managers graduated from Abu Dhabi and 16 cadet pilots were recruited and 44 engineers and technicians joined. As far as economic impact is concerned, it is estimated that the direct, indirect, induced economic impact of Er Serbia contributes to $710m, 1.5% of GDP to the Serbian economy and enables more than 20,000 jobs to exist and creates opportunities for growth and future economic plans. It's about "Er Serbia". As for "Politicals", I put out the data a year and a half ago what really happened. We don't have a solution at all, Mr. Zivkovic, because this party of yours, when it reigned, ruled by robbing everyone that St. Peter couldn't determine who was there and whose name and whose account he robbed. So, we now have a few guarantors, supervisors, giraffes. Does Bogicevic now pay the German side or not? He says he pays, the Germans say he doesn't pay. Then the Germans say - we have another association and some other physical faces that are our guarantors and our jury, and this one says - I've never seen you in my life. We're going to arbitration again, we're going to trial again, and why? Because the party on whose list you are selected wanted to do so to another media house, to help them with the election campaign, and to help them and to have full control over businesses on those media. There was one stealing, the other stealing, the third stealing, and the fourth hiding. I have to tell you that no one can find that out alive, I only hope that in direct negotiations with the Germans we will be able to avoid new trials and new arbitration, but I have to tell you that I really don't feel at all guilty about the situation in "Politicals", or the situation in "News", because that's how eternal thieves were in power that nobody lives, there's no such arbitration, and there's this court that can eventually grasp it. I hope so, and I promise you, we will have the strength to establish it and try to untangle it. If that's what we're gonna do, it stays to be seen. One more thing about Arab investments. Since you have spoken here, and I will return to agriculture afterwards, as is the law on privatisation, which is a reform law, which is an excellent law, which supports both the IMF and the World Bank, as well as the law on bankruptcy, as well as the Law on Labour, as well as the Law on PIO, so in that law you say there is a possibility of a free contract. There's no possibility of a free contract, there isn't. Don't go away from yourself, Mr. Zivkovic. If that's what you've been up to, that's one thing. There is no possibility of a free offer here, but there is a possibility of being taken over by the Constitution and the laws of this country concerning the respect of strategic agreements. Let's see the respected friends who made these strategic agreements and how he made them. In fact, these agreements have started to apply de facto since 2009. The Serbian Progressive Party was formed in 2008, far from the government in 2009. You won't believe it, now you're going to hear the projects, what it is that we do based on what some call a direct contract, and for some of these projects, I don't think they're bad at all, on the contrary. It's about the Zemun-Borch Bridge Project. It's an agreed variant, it's 255 million dollars, it's 85% of the funding, the remaining 15% are funded by the Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade, 50% - 50%. No one has ever asked anyone how we got those numbers, because if you ask me today, unlike most of you, I'll be very honest and I'll say yes, I think it's a good deal for Serbia. You see how different we are. I could have said 50 million less and 70 million less. There was no tender, there was no procedure. I think it's a good price and I think it's a good deal for Serbia. This distinguishes people who are responsible from those who are not. You have other things. Project of the first phase, the Kostolac B loan package of China's Exim Bank for a 293m-dollar privileged buyer to finance 85% of the total project value of $344.63m. So, I've never heard of anyone rebelling for these projects, and we're talking about projects that have so far, if you've calculated, $700 million worth of dollars. But that's where we get the key contract. The contract for our highway Ljig-Pray with Azerbaijan is directly agreed and made by this principle, a certain price. We have to respect it as a country and I think the Azerbaijani are doing their job well today. I want to inform the citizens that, with our fierce control, that part of the highway will be finished instead of in June 2016 before the end of August 2015. That's great news for Serbian citizens. As for the tender, then I'll have everything to read to you in detail from these Arab contracts, I just want to say one thing to you. Since they gave you a lecture in the last days and weeks through various media with all the incorrect information that you will get today, so you can compare, so they talked all the time – why was there no tender for Baka-Sivac, why was it given to the Arab company “Abram Vafed”? We'll get to what the Arabs do, how much money they give, how many people hire and what's in the contract with them. But they forgot to tell you that there was a tender, that a tender was called in 2005, so in 2006, and the tender was won by Mile Jerkovic. You know Mile Jerkovic. It's another one of those overpriced tycoons we're guarding today because it's protected. I don't know if he's Saric's or if he's his Charic. Who's there doesn't matter. You won't believe it, dear friends, in that tender, then you'll get precise data, and without addition to everything the Arabs do, in the tender he got it by 60% lower than what the Arabs paid today, 60% lower price. But that's not the end of it. He also received subsidies in 50% of what he paid for. But that's not the end of it either. The contract was terminated in February, 12. 02. 2010 Why? Because the company was destroyed. Because the workers didn't have receipts. Because property is held against the provisions of the contract - disrespect for business continuity and non-payment of war. Because the Arabs pay suddenly the man didn't pay, and the losses are 15m euros, which is why he's in restructuring today. The total investment "Al Ravafed" is 142m euros and is being paid immediately. There you go. So much about who put us up for tenders and how these tenders were conducted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6383	Thank you. Did you ask for another three minutes? (Yes) The word has Zoran Zivkovic, three minutes, a comment or a specific question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6384	First comment. I wasn't elected on anyone's list, it was a coalition called what was called. You can get information. Secondly, you did not respond to the contract on "Er Serbia". You said it was the parameters you promised to bring in that contract, but we didn't see the contract. As for Milet Jerkovic, he sued me for slander, because I told him he was a public criminal, and then he quit, so don't transfer him to me. Please, now you're listening to me. No contract you mentioned has anything to do with the time I was involved in politics and you know it well. It was done at a time when this party was run by some team that you wanted to build a government with three months ago, so don't tell me that... If someone was against these secret contracts, if someone was against privatisations like Mile Jerkovic, from 2004 to today, it was me. Let me ask you just two more questions, since I see you're not asking questions about autocomponents in Panchev, chips, etc., etc., two easy questions. First, can you guarantee that none of your ministers illegally obtained a degree or that they had not plagiarized master's or doctoral work? That's the first question. If you say you guarantee, I will never ask this question again. The second question - who chose and paid professional musicians who entertained ministers on a Nis trip that took place on Monday, and the Serbian media got a lot of information about that joy on the bus? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6385	Since you've been asking questions all day and all night, I expected it to be a decent question. I don't want to say anything more than that. As for joy, there was no joy. It is a joy for you who have driven three times as many limos as our ministers are driving today, and I am proud of the fact that our ministers took the bus. Some other governments when they were riding the bus, on their way back on the bus, there was one member of the government, and everyone else couldn't wait to sit in the limos and come back, which you didn't even try, you never left the limo. So, as far as the contract is concerned, you're right, I didn't answer one thing, and you're absolutely right about that, and I promise you that Monday you'll have it on the site, because I was surprised that you don't have any money for Serbia. We apologize for that. I apologize to the public of Serbia, it is scandalous that this was not put in place. I think it's the Ministry of Finance, because of the change in the Ministry of Finance at the moment and the impeccableness. You'll get every penny. Except for those, I would say, what we spent on the budget reserve of money from the regular business "The Way of Serbia", nothing was spent. We have every penny known and goes through the repair office. Each dinar is controlled and co-operated by both the UNDP and the EU and the World Bank. So, all these three institutions are working together with our government, and for every dinar, it's going to be pretty clear where anyone got it. On Wednesday, after the last eight days of appeal have expired, the first people on solutions, up to now 211 solutions have been issued, receive money from the Serbian state from between 120,000 dinars and 650 thousand dinars, depending on the amount of damage found in their facilities. So, as far as that goes, you'll have absolutely guaranteed full transparency. I apologize for not being able to see what countries so far have given so much money, because I think it's very important that our people see it, because then our people will change their judgment on certain countries in a good way, despite the campaign that is being conducted against certain countries and peoples in an inappropriate way. As for music, I didn't even hear the music because I was on the bottom floor, so I didn't hear the music, but the state of Serbia certainly didn't pay a dime, nor did the ministers share with the press, which was paid out of the private pocket. So, as for dinner and lunches, I also want to inform you, none of my lunches, none of my only dinners have been paid by the government of Serbia and the citizens of this country, none. Not a bottle of water or anything. Also, I want to tell the citizens of Serbia, as I have heard about it, I am waiting for the arrival of Sheikh Muhammad and I am confident that he will approve and I will be proud to publish the contract for "Er Serbia", and for "Al Ravafed" I will read every detail to you today. I will remind only the people in this room that a large "Scared Airlines", a thousand times more valuable than JAT, thousands of times more valuable than JAT, paid 500m euros. The Austrian state paid 500m euros in Lufthanzi to take the Ostrian Airlines just to keep the employees alive, or to work and to live from their work, as it was in the previous period. As far as the Privatisation Act is concerned, there's just one more thing I have to answer that some people didn't understand. Well, we have a problem with what we wrote in law. I voted in favour of the law with pain because the IMF people said they wouldn't give us support unless they entered all possible restrictions through mortgage creditors, etc. We have a problem because I wanted us to protect our workers, our iron workers, our workers in the Fapa so that we could negotiate. You want me to tell you what the problem is? You ordered everything, except for that. The problem is that now we're going to have to deal with banks and pay them, because they're going to say that the hall is worth three million euros, and that hall isn't worth anything if you give it to the production of trucks and buses, because that mortgage trustee in the bank doesn't care that people live there, that people do. They don't care if it stays 600 employees or 1,000 employees. Now the state will have to make deals with them, so that we can respect all those who've salted our minds and talked about how unfair it is because it's gonna be someone who's willing to trade. What are we trading for? To trade what we don't have, to trade negative capital everywhere, to trade with that minus 750 million euros left in the amanet that we have to solve. Our problem is that this is exactly what we're going to do, with all the opposite things you've been talking about, and our intention is, in fact, to help workers in every way possible and try to find a strategic partner and tie them up to have to save jobs. Well, tell the people that you're not in favour of keeping jobs, but that you're in favour of selling those assets at as high cost as possible, and you don't care about the workers. You don't care about "The Iron" and "Fap". Who do you have for "Fap" to recommend us? Who has anyone in the O.R. to recommend, since 20 years, 15 years doesn't produce or is it minimal? Who do you have to recommend for Jellyzara? You left us with eight and a half million euros each month to lose. Who do you have, tell me? Here, we're struggling to have five firms to talk to right now. We're struggling. We're directly negotiating, praying that at least one of us would take it, praying to God. Just show me where that crime you're talking about is. Who took it from themselves? Of course, it's nobody. Because there are no thieves in this government. Because in this government, it's not those who think about how they're going to be richer, and the people are poorer, but people are working to try to make something for their people and their people. Once again, I apologize for the very serious thing and it was very useful and I'm sorry that our people didn't notice it for donations, for the transparency of donations, and I think it's very important that all people can see who gave it. One more thing thanks to some of the others who thought so much money would get them. I hope we can change the deal with you, the Law on the financing of political parties. In this case, the party I run will also make a significant contribution to the flooded areas. We can't do this by law today, because it used to bother some, because we helped build houses in the King and then they brought an idiotic provision that you couldn't humanitarianly, that the parties had no right to provide humanitarian support to their population. Anyway, it was very useful to hear this. Hold my word, at the latest Tuesday you will have on the government website or on the Ministry of Finance site all donations to who gave the money to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6386	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic, two minutes of a statement and we are closing a circle with you MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6387	I'm not happy with the answers. I didn't get any precise answers to any question, let alone mention it as, say, plagiarism. As for "Er Serbia", to remind you that in 2003 JAT did business with profits, with having had historical debts from before, so he had no losses at the time. As far as these other questions are concerned, it's really nice to listen to what you're saying, but there's no basis. Your beautiful desires are baseless and that's the problem with this government, and maybe her place on the bus. And finally, don't yell at me. I'm not a member of the government, or a member of the country's administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6388	Thank you, Ambassador Zivkovic. The right to question is Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6389	Thank you, Madam President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for the Minister of Education. As he is familiar with after our conversation, the state of education in Albanian language in Bujanovac and Presevo is in huge trouble. The question of textbooks is just one of the burning questions that hasn't been resolved in years. However, the fact that in Bujanovac of six primary and secondary schools, five are in temporary or forced measures, shows what the situation is. This situation is not only due to the conflict of jurisdiction between local self-government and national councils but also to insufficient action or inaction, not to do educational inspections to resolve this issue as well as the provisions of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education System. In this state, I ask the minister, when will the ministry announce a competition for the admission of an educational inspector for the school administration of Leskovac with the knowledge of Albanian, because the former inspector was retired on May 15th of this year, and so far the ministry has taken no action to fill this place? The second question, what measures is being taken by the ministry to achieve the situation that Albanian pupils from first to fourth grade receive absolutely all textbooks, as their peers in other municipalities in Serbia and Bucharest, and not only in part how does it seem? Among the textbooks they receive, they receive translations from the Serbian language that are no longer in use in the territory of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6390	The word has Minister Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6391	Thanks for asking. When it comes to free textbooks, low-cost textbooks, the solution that could solve all this is money. There are so many low-priced textbooks that if we had a budget that was 10 times bigger for low-cost and free textbooks than it is now, it wouldn't be enough. So I completely understand the discontent of why some promised circulations and some textbooks were not delivered in time. We have a problem with untranslated textbooks in minority languages. Some tenders aren't made in time, and that's what we're working on. Since money cannot be created, what we can do is make different criteria for the subsidisation of textbooks and the award of free textbooks. Systemically, it will be resolved by a new law on textbooks that is in preparation and that will probably reach the MPs in October or November this year where the emphasis will be on free textbooks getting those who need it most, that is one. Two, not to share free textbooks that no one uses, or to not print or share textbooks that no one eventually opens. We will pay much more attention to what are needed textbooks that are not needed and in accordance with this rational distribution. As for the choice of inspectors with the knowledge of Albanian language, it is in the procedure, so you can expect it at the beginning of the school year to call the competition and bring it in as we agreed, to bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6392	Thank you, Minister. Are you looking for a supplemental question? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6393	It's not all about money, it's about money. I understand that the crisis has hit all layers of society, but I can't agree that the realisation or achievement of minority rights should depend on the lack or extra money. The state must provide equal conditions for the education of all citizens, including members of national minorities, in line with European standards. You know, almost the Republic of Serbia received a third report from the advisory committee on monitoring the Framework Convention and what it says. So I would ask that, before the start of the new school year, you take concrete steps to solve these questions about supplying textbooks to free textbooks once, because it takes years for Albanians students to get nothing but empty bags unlike their peers in other municipalities that receive all the textbooks for free.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6394	The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6395	I want to thank you first of all, Mr. Cambery, and you're absolutely right that there's been a problem before. There are problems on our side, we have also been late with Croatian textbooks, with Bulgarian and, respectively, I apologize in Croatia and Bulgaria, as well as in Albanian. We'll do our best to make it right before September 1st. The state of Serbia will meet all its obligations to all its citizens. I also take the opportunity to tell you that I expect you personally, and everyone else in Bujanovac, Preshevo and Bear to meet their obligations to the state. Which means you pay for electricity regularly. To pay for everything else on a regular basis. Because if you ask the state of Serbia you will get what belongs to you and the state of Serbia has the right to collect what belongs to it. So please, you know this question in no other country would be asked, but now, one by one, if the tycoons and the big owners of the power-stealing restaurant fall. Sorry, it's not right for us to arrest people in Serbia who have a lot of money and don't pay for electricity without you paying for years. Please make sure you ask your voters to receive textbooks from the state of Serbia in Albanian. The state of Serbia will provide that. It is the obligation of the Serbian state. We must respect it, not because of Europe, but because we love and respect our citizens, but also, please, you don't have to love, but to respect the state where you live and pay your bills, you settle your obligations to the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6396	Ambassador Camberi two minutes of comment. Next MP, Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6397	We'll wait for September 1st, so let's see if these promises come true. As far as the Prime Minister's remarks are concerned, I also read the Constitution, I am a law-abiding lawyer and several laws protecting minority rights and the Framework Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights and all other international documents protecting human rights nowhere have I seen that the achievement of minority rights is conditioned by the payment of electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6398	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6399	Dear Presidents, Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, as you can see today, does not, of course, affect the current issue of the conclusion of the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia with Etihad. On the one hand, I understand, of course, the notion that in the translation into Serbian means business secret, on the other hand, I understand those who do not understand such a concept, so in all their incomprehension they say a lot of things, starting with the words - yes, it was in the safe of the Minister of Industry Vujovic, it is a shouting contract, only to me personally it is not clear how something can be shouted whose content we do not know, so that the conditions for the development of the economy are defined according to the criteria of Etihad, by placing a foreign company in a privileged position. Furthermore, each citizen of Serbia pays 40m to 50m euros annually for Etihad's subsidies. On the other hand, these are the ones who said they knew nothing about the contract or the content of the contract. On the other hand, we have those who say they are familiar with the content of the contract, so they argue, and one of them is former Minister Radulovic, that the contract was seen, and then he said to the quote -- he was "sitting with me in the cabinet", sitting in his cabinet, so on the question – what is so harmful about Serbia in that contract? Former Minister Radulovic said - I cannot tell you, because there is a provision of a confidentiality agreement. In the event of the breach of that provision, Etihad would have the right not only to terminate the contract but also the right to collect damages. The way to talk, former Minister Radulovic continues, exactly what the contract says is to pressure the government of the Republic of Serbia to publish the contract. My question, and now I'm going to relate to a respected colleague of Zivkovic who has given the creamworth to continue at the same pace, is that now that you've finally said yourself that you're going to present some of the provisions of the contract, to present these provisions to us and finally to demystify all the controversial things, to remove the good work of the veil of secrets, and on the other hand, by respecting that contractual clause of secrecy and to present to us at least some of those mandatory elements of the contract that, as lawyers, we know, in contract law, are called and mandatory names, make the content of the contract, and cannot exist. Thus, by answering such a question, I am sure that you will meet exactly all those who most often ask this question, and these are the same ones who in no way wanted to make known everything that was written in the contract in time, about the "Fiyat" from the past, and just as we remember from the past, these are some contracts where by the markers, or where the markers of their contents were dimmed. Since I'm running out of time, I'm asking you to answer my first question, so I'll have the next one.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6400	Thank you, Miss Batic. I'd only like to say one thing, just so much about the truth. I think it's important and I'm sorry that I didn't, sometimes I think it might be easier for a shade to sit in congregation benches, but I'll read you some information to see, as Mr. Zivkovic said, that in the year he was prime minister, that JAT was doing business with profit. I'll only read it to you in a few years, so you can see how much this has to do with the truth. In 2003, minus 18.784,000, 2004 -- one billion and 185 million 823 thousand -- in 2005, minus three billion 637,471. So, I apologize, whatever it is, and the dinars are at stake, Mr. Zivkovic, all the time in the minus, and in 2001 you had less minus than you had, I'm telling you not in the nominal, but in the real numbers, when you change that into dollars, you had less minus in 2004 and 2005. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I was not then prime minister. And you weren't Prime Minister then? So you said that in 2003 you were in plus, and now the papers say that you're at minus 18 million, so you were down, you were just minus 18 million, so say, don't steal any more time. I'm sorry. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: E, I got the word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6401	Mr. Zivkovic shut you down.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6402	Don't yell, they're not arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6403	Zivkovic shut you down, reapply. Ambassador Zivkovic, don't rule out the prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6404	Mr. Zivkovic, don't throw it away. I've never been afraid of guys like you and fortunately, they ended up in political history and will never return to Serbia for any important function. What you learned to threaten, don't wave your finger, Mr. Zivkovic, don't wave your finger, whether or not you've tied people to the bandits, it's for other periods and what's happened in Nis, in Serbia you'll never tie anyone to the bandits again. I promise you that, Mr. Zivkovic. More Serbian citizens, I don't know if you were afraid of the famous Lulet or Lula of you, but the citizens of Serbia will never be afraid and intimidated again. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Cambery, I didn't know that the realisation of human rights was related to the payment of electricity. We will do everything in the realm of human rights to achieve. Do not worry at all, and before the start of the school year you will get everything that belongs to you according to how the state of Serbia respects the rights of national minorities. Mr. Cambery, before September 1st, start paying for electricity. Let's get back to the serious subject, in a serious way. The state of Serbia invested the same amount of money, 40 million as Etihad, and that was necessary immediately for us to get new planes, for the new fleet, they got the opportunity, and we're the ones who run it, but we agreed to hire part of their management. There was a dispute with the EU, is it us who have control over 51% or them? We are the ones who have control and this is the Serbian company still, we have not given the majority package, but thanks to the fact that they are a significant part of our management, we are in a position today, in a position to achieve all these extraordinary results that I have shown you. So, from companies that were the biggest possible loser, I listen to today's company director Er Serbia's stay in Hayat pay for "Er Serbia", Serbian citizens let it go every day, and it's a notorious lie. It pays Etihad, not "Er Serbia", as well as for the other two directors, it pays Etihad, not "Er Serbia", just so that some of these city stories are contained. Now I'm going to show you what the untruths of the Al Rafedo contract look like, connected to several municipalities and related to agricultural land. In fact, for days we heard how the Arabs got the country at the price of 6,000 euros, it's exactly the one that speaks in a sitting contract, told the public and said they were given the country at 6,000 euros. Not a single square meter was given at 6,000 euros, although we were giving for much less money, you know, at the time of all those who teach us the lecture and the salty mind. We gave it three times less than that. We've given 10,000 euros and 7,000 euros each, but please listen to me now, it's very important, 20% of us are owners, which will say 12,000 euros and 8,400 euros is a full price. But that's not enough either. They are not the owners of the country, because they can't even claim any right to establish, which I know there are good lawyers here and in the opposition, who know it well, so they can't have any intrinsic right without a decision by the Serbian state to establish, not a mortgage or anything like that, nothing, without a decision from the Serbian state. We have that golden voice that decides about it. We even protected ourselves on that point. Look, please move on. We're working on a company, we're talking about companies that are bankrupt, that don't pay workers, and that are 15m euros minus. They take all the debts, start working, immediately employ 80, then 15 other workers, with a further obligation to invest 4,000 euros per hectare. That's 16,000 and that's 12,400. All the irrigation equipment, everything they do, remains the state of Serbia. It's not the end. They, unlike all our other producers, don't take 12,000 dinars per hectare of subsidies, I'm telling you about the lease countries now, where they say 250 euros, is sold at 400. They lied. The place sells 234 euros, plus we give 110 euros in subsidies. We don't give Arabs a dime of subsidies and pay a higher price right now. All of this will irrigate local self-government and will give you incomparably more money than it has ever been before, and besides that, they have an obligation to invest 52m euros under a break-up condition, so I read you all the essential elements of the contract, 52m euros to invest in a processing plant, where they will employ a new hundred people and where everything they put there will offer for domestic and foreign markets. Total investment of 142m euros. When he took Mr. Jerkovic, so to add this second part, it would have turned out to be about 18m euros. The difference between 18m euros and 142m euros is not so small, you will agree. When you look at all this, then you wonder, and who should have it? It was only necessary for those who went from time to time when they made conclusions about other people. I guess it's in human nature to think worse of someone else than yourself. They know how bad they are, so they imagine that all other people are much worse. Not everyone's dishonest. There are many honest people and in this country there are the largest number of honest people and these honest people are going to make this country both normal and decent and successful and modern.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6405	Thank you. Olga Batic, additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6406	Thank you. Prime Minister Vukic partly responded to what she would have asked him as a second question in any case, and this is about renting agricultural land, to those controversial listenings that we have every day. We no longer know if it was a sale or a lease of agricultural land, and the land would not be so talked about if an Arab company was not interested in such a thing, which did not express its interest precisely in setting up its agricultural product base on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So again a similar situation as in the case of “Ethicada. ” Again, the same noise as in the case of Etyhada, only now concerns, of course, the contract with El Dahra. Given that there is, of course, in Serbia, and now you tell me the exact number if you know, there are auctions that exist somewhere in between, that's the range, from 400,000 to 900,000 hectares of unprocessed agricultural land that have no one to process, so I guess it's leased, so I'm very interested in exactly what percentage of agricultural land we're renting? I think you've already told me the price, so I'm not gonna ask what the price is per hectare. Whether the government of the Republic of Serbia, when we conclude those contracts we are talking about, had in mind and thought by experts that in Serbia it was necessary to subsidise the tenant, because the country, as I have already stated, has no one to process. Finally, did the Serbian government estimate how much the same country's yields with domestic treatment, and how much with modern ways of processing used in far more developed countries than our own? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6407	The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6408	What's most important, Miss Batic, is you just said. The Arabs will have four to five times the yield per hectare than we have, four to five times and a half times the yield per hectare, whether we believe it or not. I think that says enough, it's gonna be a show case, it's gonna be a good look where you can see it. Tell me, if any of you aren't proud of what it looks like today, and you'll see what it looks like in 2018, in a year we'll be flying to Chicago and New York with our planes, when you look at what we've managed to do, four to five and a half times will increase our contribution. Now, the price I told you is the highest, because there's the best country. Our price is lower when you compare Banat, Srem and Baka, about 150 euros, and we give these kinds of subsidies to it. You won't believe it, we don't even charge a tax on property, because it's our property, and right now we should sit here with you, we should agree, we should show, we should see what our plan for the future is, because we should round it up, or we should get one big one like this, like Al Ravafed, can invite and bring together all the small farmers, which is their intention and because of this processing plant they're going to make because of what we need, but these are pioneer steps, and it doesn't matter. I know of some who will never be power, but some will be power tomorrow, I tell you, they'll just keep going and they'll only ask me one thing when I leave power, which is – can you save us those contacts so we can continue? Here's why I'm telling you this. Here's the news, I've only downloaded the last days from the UK and London, and look how the highest English officials are talking about how Great Britain welcomes investors from the Emirates. Look, these are dozens and dozens of texts. Now you'll hear what they've gotten into and never tell them they're not welcome. From Getty Airport, where they got 15%, and I don't have to tell you that Gettys is Europe's sixth airport of size, until they took the largest wind farm in the world, they bought 20% right next to London, until they bought Manchester City, and as you can see, Manchester City is the most successful club in Britain since they took over, two titles in three years, until they bought the "Exibish Company" together in London "Excel" back in 2008, until your most prestigious business school in England. Imagine doing it here in Serbia, so I can't live off those who think they're educated, and education has almost nothing, "Lands of cool economies", the most beautiful and the biggest hall is called "Bin Zayed", because it was the man who made modern Emirates, who have five times less and less oil quality than Libya has, forgive me, look at Libya, look at what they look like. Imagine that Petica is called "Bin Zayed" at the Faculty of Law and has helped Serbia more than he has helped them. What pressure would we be, and with what words would we be exposed to? Excuse me, can't we appreciate the ones they gave us? Just one more thing, you can look at it now, I got this information on the site "renewal.rs", you can look at the data from the donor conference, all the legal faces and all the countries that gave us the money, you'll have it on Monday on the website, only natural persons, only if they allow it, we'll give it on Monday and you'll have full insight into it. Armenia has given us 55,000 euros, Bosnia and Herzegovina has not given it. Greece has given us 200,000 euros, Bosnia and Herzegovina 100,000 euros. The only country that gave us a significant amount of money, the bigger Bosnia and Herzegovina gave, was neither Russia nor America, were the United Arab Emirates. I'm sorry to have to say that. I'm ashamed some people didn't want to see it, to hear it and read it. They gave it because they feel they have friends in Serbia, because they want to help this country. I will not allow as long as I can fight those whose interests are more important than the interests of this country, to drive you and your friends out of the country. Thank you to those who have helped us, and they have so far given us, even though they have begged me not to talk about it through both houses and direct money convincingly at the most - 15 million. Show me that land that gave us $15 million on the globe. No one else. Should we say all the worst about them? Should we spit on our friends? Well, I don't want any part of it. I respect every Russian savior who came here, I respect the American helicopters they sent, and I'm supposed to disrespect those who sent us more than that? That's not how you behave responsibly. The one who knows how to fight back and support and help, who knows how to respect these peoples and who knows how to say yes, we are your friends and we will be your friends in the future. Did you see how much of the "Al Ravaphed" contract stuff they were hiding for the public, and they lied for six thousand, and they hid everything else, up to how much they really sold the country seven years earlier and what happened to this company, "Bačka" Sivac? Ask the workers in "Bačka" Sivac are they satisfied that they will finally be able to feed their children, that they have finally received bread for their children and that they will have a safe job and what will they be able to do? It would never have worked if we had left it at Milet Jerkovic's tender, as we had given Milet Jerkovic and the tender and destroyed that firm. Then what happened? Why are they united like this, so they held common stands with Ivana Dulic Markovic and others? You want me to tell you why? Well, there was another great businessman and tycoon, who united them all. It's about Mr. Jomby. Let's face it in Mr. Jomby's Tower. The state will not fear Jombe or anyone else if it does something good for its people and for its country. That's how we're gonna keep doing it. Thank you for that. I brought you this to show you how every penny in the world is respected. Only we Serbs, unfortunately, are not able to respect our friends, but because of each other we are going to drive each and every one of these countries away, to do damage to the country, so that we are big or bigger than our competitors. I don't care, and tomorrow when someone else wins, and when someone comes to power, I'm going to tell him -- here we can help, this is good for the country, let's do it together, let's do it together for the country. Don't forget, Shaip, report for power from tomorrow to start paying for electricity. Nothing's funny to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6409	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6410	Thank you, Your Honor. Of course, I'll thank Mr. Wolfich for the information he's provided and for the data he's supplied to give us here. Of course, I have to point out, actually, that's what you said, which is that some future government will come to this country. And you could also say that every business secret, even if every contract that has and contains a clause of secrecy, it has to be downloaded after a while. Thank you again for your answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6411	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6412	Thank you, President. I will ask my question to the Prime Minister. I also wanted to ask a question about selling the country, or renting it to the Arab Emirates, because I came from the municipality of Kula, from the Russian Krstura, and Sivac is my neighboring place. I've learned a lot from you, among other things, about who and why the land is actually sold to the Emirates, not the domestic tenants. The only thing that interests me is this: what will the young people who have used this land so far? Some took loans, such as tractors, for other agricultural machinery. This year, they're breaking off contracts that were signed for three years. They expected the country to work further. It's just, what are these young people going to do now, doing that country? Not all employees of AD "Bačka" Sivac and so on. Another question I would ask is how do you think in some way you're developing a village, not just a village that's big, which it might rent three thousand and three hundred, and I don't know how many hectares, but other villages in Serbia, because we know that villages don't have schools, they don't have, banks, they don't have health homes? The villages are, however, impoverished. Will it continue to be a policy to make it better to be a waiter, for example, in Novi Sad or Belgrade, or is it better to stay on your property, no matter what it is, but most likely that today's estates may be small and that if people were hired, ten more acres there would help and that they could keep their families from it? I ask you these questions – what do you recommend for these young people to continue working, which in some ways have run out of that land they have so far rented?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6413	Thank you, Mrs. Papuga. I'd like to say that I, understanding the weight of the problem we've faced, the weight of our habits and the constant expectation of all of us getting something from the state, understood the problems these people face in Khuli. So in a conversation with the representatives of Al Ravapheda, who had our people here, I told them to insist, to rush first to employ more cooperatives, more other farmers, and these 192 who worked in different ways on this country to find a job for some of them, but to see how and how to be engaged in the future. We for the state have here, as you've seen, a clean plus and a huge plus compared to what we've had. It is our job, of course, as well as yours and as all other people, to take care of the state's revenues. That's why I talked to your president on my initiative. I invited him, wanting to explain exactly that. I brought him all this. I must say that he and how he understood it and heard it, as well as some other presidents of opposition parties who wanted to hear it. I didn't invite some, because I know some people aren't worth saying. I think he understood how important that is for our country and how good that is in the end line. Let's see if we can find other ways. We have active employment measures. We also have money for active employment and self-employment measures. We have measures to continue to support agriculture. Let's see if he doesn't have that hectare or the hectare he took in the arena, he couldn't count on for much longer, because every three years the state chooses the tenant, so not everyone is in the first year, some are in the third, let's see how to help in another way. Let's see what we do with livestock production, what we do with fruit growing and vegetables, which requires less land. We can help as a state, and we're specially prepared in that part of the Tower, and the Greys and in some other parts of the Vojvodina to help. We don't have any problem with that. The state is ready to help and you actively engage and help us on this matter. We can arrange meetings and solve these problems. It is our intention to help our people, not to make a business and make money, because, I repeat, we are not like some other people who have become very rich and don't come out of limos. Then I'll go back to all their stories about Miskovics, Kostics, Bek and everyone else. Please always keep in mind that you can talk to us, as we want to talk to you and solve these problems together. Shaip, did you report the power? Signal for power.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6414	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6415	I'm asking for specific help. I come from the Russian Krstura, which has an ABC food factory that has been privatised, has been under bankruptcy, the state has helped, is in restructuring to bring the factory to its feet. Somewhere since May, the factory has continued to fail, no matter what restructuring has passed. They came back old owners, fired workers, it was almost the only factory in the region that made frozen vegetables, I don't know, corn sugar, etc. It's a "ABC Food" factory in Russia. (Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, from the post: How many employees are there? I don’t know exactly how many employees he has. I'm sure she's over 200 now, but she's had more for a while. There are seasonal workers who have not been resolved at all, so it might help to have some people still working there, to connect that agriculture, to connect those raw materials, etc. I think it would be good for the whole community and for everyone who lives a little further. I want to ask you one more question. You keep mentioning that power. I come from a place where there's a school in Russian 260 years. Also, from a homogeneous place, where there are high school and schools in Russian. The Russians lack 38 textbooks. I've already asked these questions several times. I mean, I don't know if there's power out there in my village, and I mean how you said electricity should be paid, that we should be loyal citizens... I think if someone is loyal, it's the Dukes and I think the Dukes are the biggest payers. For example, the Russians, the Slovaks, the Hungarians, I can't tell you now how many, but there are very many textbooks missing. Maybe the textbooks and the translations are because there's a department in the new Sad of the book publishing office. The problem is that there is no good connection between Belgrade and the Ministry's Institute of Teachers. There may be something going on, but I just don't think low-cost textbooks should be put in commercial. No one's gonna print that. This must be printed because they are called low-cost textbooks. This connection to electricity, please don't, because I'm giving you an example of Vojvodina, as the largest pay, not just electricity, but taxes and everything, and there's a lot of textbooks missing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6416	The word is made by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6417	I've never connected it to the Tower or anything in Vojvodina, nor does it relate to it. As I say to Shaip Kamberi, I say to Zoran Zivkovic, who called for no electricity, it is my job to warn Zoran Zivkovic and Shaip Kamberi to pay the electricity and that what they call is against the law. Shaipe, start paying for the electricity from tomorrow. I'm not kidding. You'll see I'm not kidding. I'm not kidding about paying for electricity at all. If they pay people in the Russian Christur, if they pay for it in Belgrade, they pay for it in Novi Sad, they pay for it in Pirot, Nis, Kragujevac and Kragujevci, except for these tycoons, who steal electricity, so they think they're very smart, so now they're going to go up because they're stealing electricity, now I'm telling you to start paying for electricity, because you won't have it until you pay for it. As far as I'm concerned, let me say right now, you can call the globe Earth to complain. There is no country in the world that allows someone not to pay for electricity. There's no such example in the world anywhere in the world. So, you'll pay nicely. If you want to complain here and Davenport, and Kirby, and Cepurina, and whoever you want. Whoever you want, you can complain, but I'm telling you, you're gonna pay for the electricity. As far as the Russians are concerned, you'll get textbooks, and that's my promise to you. We'll deal with textbooks for all members of the national minorities. It's a shame we didn't meet that. My shame and shame on the government. I apologize for that one more time. Last time I answered, I can't believe we didn't solve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6418	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6419	If we don't get the book by September 1st, does that mean I shouldn't pay for electricity because I pay for it regularly?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6420	The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6421	President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM parliamentary group has been trying several years back to address two acute issues of agricultural producers' problems. The first problem is the payment of contributions by agricultural producers, and the second is regarding the registration of agricultural connection machines. We've talked about these problems in recent years, not just during the election campaign. They found themselves in our election program. Which is extremely significant, their resolution is part of our coalition agreement with the SNS. As regards the problem of the level of contribution of agricultural producers, there has been progress, thanks to Mrs. Agriculture Minister Snezani Bogosavljević Boskovic, as well as our Secretary of State Attila Juhas, who is extremely active in solving the problem of registration of connected machines. There was also an official letter to the MUP, and there was also an official letter to the question. As far as this problem is concerned, I think we're close to a solution. Mr Stefanovic, a few weeks ago, you announced a change in the Regulation on registration of motor vehicles and connections at the session of the Serbian Assembly. I want to ask you a question – how are things currently being changed with the Regulation on registration of motor vehicles and connected vehicles, when can it be expected, or when can it be finished? For the public, what's the problem with this registration? The Traffic Safety Act provides that every vehicle must be registered. However, some agricultural and connected machinery manufacturers and that they wish they could not register, which is why they get fines. The problem is created by this Regulation concerning the registration of motor vehicles, where it is stated that each vehicle, which is to be registered, must be subject to technical inspection prior to registration, and during the technical examination, vehicle data must be provided and there are conditions that the vehicle must meet. The problem is that many connected machines in agriculture do not meet the requirements, which are prescribed. A lot of machines, for example, don't have a chess number, they don't have air brakes or signalling, which is why they can't pass the technical examination. Most of the time, it's about presses, tankers, stallers, corn pickers. What further creates a problem for agricultural producers is that they often don't even have the first machine purchase account and therefore cannot register a vehicle. These problems are also known by the traffic police, but regardless, they punish agricultural producers for not registering their connection machines. The fines aren't small. The driver's license is withdrawn for three months, and three, four points are received, and a fine of 30,000 dinars is eventually paid. Mr. Stefanovic, because of the high interest of agricultural producers, are we interested in the change of this Regulation? It would be extremely important for this problem to be resolved before the start of the new agricultural season. That's what we think is real.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6422	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6423	Dear Mr. Fremond, you're right. A few weeks ago, we discussed a problem that highlighted several MPs, your MP group, MP Marijan Risticevic and other MPs. Obviously, we have two problems concerning the registration of individual vehicles and other vehicles used in agriculture, which are important for agricultural producers, because they do not really have a new one, others. One problem is ownership. One part of the agricultural producers couldn't, because they were old vehicles, bought tens of years ago. It was hard to provide material evidence of ownership. I have instructed, or will direct one proposal to the Government during tomorrow, which will allow the owners of these vehicles to register them and put them in traffic as such. It's part of the solution to this problem. The second part of the problem that we discussed today on the working body, which should coordinate traffic security in the Republic of Serbia, are the conditions provided for in the Regulation on the registration of such a vehicle. When considering, for example, the concentration of certain substances in exhaust or brake systems etc., these machines, i.e. connected vehicles, could never be registered. That's how we disable their use. It's in the hands of the traffic police. The traffic police would then punish those people on the roads, and they have to use those vehicles because they don't have anyone else. We have concluded that the Ministry of Transport, in co-operation with the MUP, proposes amendments to the Regulation by the end of August, which will allow the use of these machines without jeopardising traffic safety. So that the largest number of agricultural producers can register and use these vehicles legally. This first regulation will be addressed to the government tomorrow, and at one of the next cabinet sessions, I hope by the end of August, will be adopted. By the end of August, amendments to this Regulation will be made to professional people, which will allow this to be resolved. I think what you suggested, we can also count on a different situation by September.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6424	The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6425	Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. We are pleased that both regulations will soon be changed and that these problems will be solved. As a MP from the SVM, I don't think we should put any extra burden on our agricultural producers with such penalties. I'm sure it's in all of us's best interests to keep the vehicles as safe as possible and to have those vehicles properly involved in traffic. It's also the interest of agricultural producers. But with these, we are certainly not going to improve our situation on the ground. It is important for the MUP to meet agricultural producers, to allow them to register some machines, and for those machines that do not meet these conditions to be factoryly met simply to be thrown out of the Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6426	The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6427	Thank you. I have a question for Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Mrs Joksimovic, if I am not mistaken for your initiative, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has launched a procedure for obtaining funds from the EU Solidarity Fund. Is something done about it? How far did it go or did everything else go? We heard from the representatives of the European Commission, as well as from representatives of the EU delegation in Belgrade, that Serbia will have the same status as if it were an EU member in the use of these significant funds. I wonder what's going on with that, how far we've come since it's a significant asset? Also, I'm interested in when we're going to get those funds and what exactly is it going to be spent on?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6428	The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6429	I thank the MPs of Filipovski. Okay, that is an important question, given that we formally sent an official application yesterday July 30th to obtain funds from the Solidarity Fund, which is available to Serbia as a candidate country. Perhaps there was no media coverage, I thought there was no need, since two weeks ago, while the donor conference was held, we used it to present the work version of this application to the regional development and urban policy commissioner, Mr. Han. They gave us some additional questions and comments, which we had an obligation to answer. We responded successfully and yesterday officially in electronic form, in writing we submitted an application to obtain funds from the Solidarity Fund. By the way, the deadline was August 5th, so we made it a few days before that. It really wasn't an easy job, given that the procedure and the preparation of the application was very demanding. You are right, in this case Serbia has been treated as a full member of the EU, so candidate status carries the opportunity to apply for these funds. The funds won't be small at all, it's about grants. It's a very clear procedure. Two are the requirements that countries are running for, these are primarily that you have candidate status for membership and another that the overall assessment of the damage exceeds 0.64% of gross national income. In our case, this amounted to 174.5m euros. It is clear also after what they are and the assessment of the damage and needs we presented at the donor conference that we qualified for this assistance. What is important and what I want to stress, not thanking myself or the Office for European Integrations, but the entire government, is that we are really very up-to-date, in literally the first week when the floods lasted, launched this mechanism that was available for our country and compared to the estimated damage, we can now say that it is quite certain that we will get between 40 and 50m euros of grants. This is the EU's special mechanism at its disposal. It's got nothing to do with these IPA funds we've rescheduled. The procedure is that after the application is submitted, there are now six weeks for the working group in the EU's competent commissioner to analyse and compare the data, and then the European Commission will make a decision, but will naturally go to the Council, to the European Parliament. Objectively speaking, we can get those funds in November or December of this year. What is important is to note that there is the possibility of retroactive use of these funds, so we can already if we have the means to find and start some vital and urgent projects, and then it can be covered by the Solidarity Fund. I think this example is a good indicator that it is really important that the Euro integration path, I am in charge of the government, and it is also time to mention how important it is that we are a candidate for EU membership. It also opened up some additional possibilities for us. By the end of the year, we'll have those funds. As far as the terms of use are concerned, and it seems to me that the conditions are such that nothing that is related to private property can be financed from these funds. We're already doing a good part of these funds to resuscitate non-expensive pre-emptive funds, i.e. IPA funds, therefore, have already made a plan to use these funds for the restoration of private houses, households and everything else, so that, in fact, I will look at it to be precise, can be used to rebuild and key infrastructure facilities and energy facilities, plumbing, health and telecommunications facilities, also, educational facilities, temporary accommodations for endangered categories of population, cleaning of special natural reserves and for those of wider social importance. So these are all the things we can finance from these funds. Here, I say once again, we officially filed yesterday, we respected the deadline or we respected the deadline, and I expect that according to the really accelerated procedures, and we got assurances from Commissioner Han, because we were fast, and they applied the speedy procedures on their part, and I expect that this will be an additional means that will mean a lot to resuscitate the endangered areas and restore normal lives of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6430	The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6431	I thank Mrs Joksimovic. I would like to refer the second question to the Minister of Education, Mr. Srdjan Verbic. Mr Verbic, Serbia has been for many years, not to say for a decade waiting for education reform and education reform. Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic announced in his exhibition that you would launch a set of changes in the area of education. I don't doubt that. I expect, as the rest of Serbia's citizens, to see your proposals. On this occasion, I would like, in this high house, on behalf of my fellow Members, from the New Serbia parliamentary group, and on my behalf, first and foremost, to give you a constructive proposal in order to reform education and to hear your opinion on this proposal that I am going to tell you. So, the fact is that our students are overcrowded with reproductive knowledge and that they need to have functional knowledge, to achieve very poor results on the PISA tests. The fact is that we also have an disproportionate number of hours compared to the content of certain electoral items, e.g. Civil training. Our students teach him eight years in elementary schools and four years in high schools. My opinion and my fellow MPs is that they have obtained conditions to return and insert some new items, of course not by increasing the number of items we have, but by reducing the existing ones. For example, my opinion is that we should return the subject of civil protection to our primary and secondary schools. This was also shown by these basic disasters that hit us in May, and I think the citizens of Serbia would have been better off in those first moments if they had some basic knowledge of the subject of civil protection. My second proposal is to introduce an electoral object of child economy into primary school. I'll give you just one piece of information based on research from the Association of Business Women in Moravia County. Based on this survey, 60% of the founders want to have the subject, because they think it will help them choose their profession, but also in some knowledge, in the first part of the development of entrepreneurship and the definition of small legs for private business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6432	The word has Minister Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6433	Mrs. Filipovski, thank you for asking. The truth is that our students are overloaded and they have more classes than they should, not only have more classes than they should, but they sit in benches a lot more than they should. School activities can be realized in other ways. I think what you've noticed is that they lack certain skills that they can't develop by sitting in a bench already have to do something else. Civil education and religious education are studied for 12 years, eight years in elementary and four in high school. I would try to answer by asking a question – and why don't we study these same classes for six years instead of 12 or why don't we study for 12 years, but with a larger fund of lessons? No one has the answer to that. Just like there's no answer to the question why math has so many classes, why physics is 72 hours a year. The answer to that question was not obtained by any research where it proved that we needed so many hours to achieve a specific goal. You'll see that many objects have the exact same number of classes, as if they're all equally important. In fact, it starts when you form a fund of lessons how many teachers there are and how to please them, or give them a proper number of lessons. Why 12 years to study civic education and religious teaching? We have no answer to that, and both cases have been introduced by a regulation. It is not good for cases to be introduced by a regulation just as it would not be good if the cases were abolished by a regulation or if we were to introduce now such matters as civil protection or entrepreneurship. What we certainly won't do in the next year is introduce new objects and remove the old ones, because it doesn't matter at the end of the day what an object is called but what is done in the context of that case. If there are already these items and if these teachers can teach anything other than what they have already handed over, many of those contents you mentioned may be part of another subject. There's no reason to say economics or financial literacy wouldn't be an integral part of mathematics, they're the closest mathematicians and we could have introduced them to the elements of the economy since we were young. There is no reason why traffic could not be involved in such cases as technical or civic education. There's no reason why many other contents couldn't be included, and that's exactly what we're going to do. We won't change the number of classes, we won't cancel the items and introduce new ones, we'll change the contents. If we already want to change objects and if that's our long-term intention, then first we have to do an analysis of the effects of individual objects and we're going to start right now, on September 1st. For each of the subjects, we will analyse the effects and see how much each of these items contributes to what is written in the Education Development Strategy, what are the competences that we want from students who leave school, what are the objectives of education. When we finish that analysis, and when we show that some objects do not contribute enough to these goals, then in front of people who work on these objects, two options are set – either we change the content of what they do or they will give their place to someone else who would do something that would give greater effects.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6434	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. I'm sorry, let me just fill in and then Filipovska.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6435	Since you mentioned new items, I need to inform you today, and right now with the Minister of Education. We held today a session of the coordination body to increase traffic safety and agreed at one of the points we adopted to try everything to find ways and conditions in the coming period that perhaps within schools, and perhaps of course within all other subjects that our students are studying and being what they know about traffic. Unfortunately, it has turned out that, despite the trend of the deaths, unfortunately, we are still the most insecure country in Europe. We spend almost 4% of GDP on car accidents, but what's scarier, we lose people's lives and especially children's lives. So, there used to be, I remember that, but we'll try to make it part of the election next year too.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6436	The word has been made by MP Dubravka Filipovski, a cocmentary. Let Vladimir Marinkovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6437	Mr. Verbic and Mrs. Mihajlovic, I am pleased with the answer you gave. You have absolutely our full support. I agree with the concept that the content should be changed and the effects of the subject should be analysed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6438	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6439	Dear Presidents, Honorable Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, all three questions that I am about to ask today will be directed to the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, but I cannot bypass the discussion of the Prime Minister and what he said about the company and investments from the United Arab Emirates and I urge that, as we do today, Al Rawafed, such as El Emar, such as the Abu Dhabi Development Fund, I think there should be interference here and a "Masdar Institute" which is a strategic partner, highly appreciated, one of the best Institute of Technology Sciences from Massachusetts in the United States. They wouldn't mind if any of the halls at our university and colleges, especially in tech, were electrotechnically called after Al Mahtum or Sheikh Muhammad Bin Zayd. In any case, the first question concerns the elementary, primary education of Minister Verbic and small graduations, the final exam. What are the plans of the ministry, will the final exam change? At present, we have a situation, that's what previous speakers mentioned, that we have weak effects, that when it comes to learning outcomes and when it comes to the results of the PISA tests, they are very weak and very bad, and on the other hand, the paperwork, the statisticalally every seventh finished founder in our country is the bearer of Vuk's degree. What is the main issue when it comes to primary education and what is further reflected in both secondary and higher education, is that for children who are in primary school we develop competition and develop this equal game of knowledge and skills between children, who will then reflect both in high school and in higher schools, universities and universities, but also in companies, institutions where they will work. Then we'll finally get the entrepreneurial and we'll get out of this official society that we live in today. So the question first concerns whether it will be changed or whether the final test applies exclusively to mathematics and Serbian? We have to bear in mind that children have differentaffinities, that they need a variety of knowledge, that it is then waiting for them at the university, because the word of the university means universal knowledge. Today, this theory and model...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6440	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6441	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6442	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6443	I'm very happy and happy, first of all, because a lot of questions today go to the Ministry of Education and what we've been talking about, I'll try, if you'll let me answer your question and for Mazdar... I don't know if you've ever been to Mazdar. They built in the middle of the desert an entire city of solar energy. It's a world miracle. There's no traffic station anywhere, there's nothing, the whole town's got solar power. Not far from Mazdar, when they were making the first college in English, then representatives of all tribes came, rebelled and said – we will not speak English, tear down our tradition, tear down everything, and now everyone attends that very school and that college. It's about one of the most educated nations and, of course, one of the richest. By the way, I'd just like to tell you that we're trying and fighting and there's gonna be a lot of good things and good surprises. The following days, the contract is finally signed with Mercedes for distribution. There will also be Mercedes produced by Icarbus from here. We've been waiting for that. I hope that with the SISU, despite this strict privatisation law, we will be able to find ways and end up with mortgage creditors, to make it possible for FAP workers to stay working. But I will return to that on the protection of the interests of the Serbian state and the people of Serbia and how we talk and how we negotiate. As you have seen, it was not difficult for me to tell you that we have raised questions about the NIS in front of the Russians, as I do not find it difficult to tell you that both Americans and Europeans are told that the South Stream is a good contract, because our obligation and our job is to take care of Serbia, our citizens and our interests. That's why I'm not ready to take those initiatives that say we're getting away from the South Stream contract and I want the citizens to know what it's all about, too. It's not a matter of politics - do you prefer Europe or do you prefer Russia? It's a question for our citizens, some prefer Europe, and some prefer Russia. We are on our way to the EU, but what is our obligation is that what is good for Serbia is respected and that we banish it to the end. Serbia, Serbia's total investment in the entire South Stream contract, the entire South Stream project is 19m euros of 2.1 billion euros. So our participation in project financing is minimal. Even if it's not on us, it's on the Russian side. I want to cheer you up and tell you that we in the contract have the possibility of 50% construction work, and that's about 120 million, plus what they call "welding assemble," welding and merger, which is an additional 230 million. However, after certain things, we have received an offer from the Russian side and officially work 100%, which means that this increases to 470m euros, so that the state of Serbia determines the performers, that we get our jobs without the dinars. It's huge money for Serbia. So I said, if we can solve the Smedereva issue, the Petrochemy and Azotara and the ISK in Kikinda, if we manage to solve the South Stream and continue with a policy of this serious consolidation and support for reforms, which we have in the world much more than in the country, because our people are always untrustworthy of reforms, but if we manage to do so, I am sure that in 2015 we will have a significant growth, and in 2016 I think that growth will be great. So, I just want to tell you that it's our intention to bring as many people as possible who can help with their investments. There's a lot less of them in the whole world than ever, because there's a crisis everywhere. Look at EU countries. Look, they're growing to 0.5 somewhere, and most of them are dropping, recession to minus one, and how many funds they have at their disposal and what they have at their disposal. We'll show positive and good results. I want what's more important to me to say, because I see every day that someone is trying to scare the pensioners in our country with government policy. I just want to tell the pensioners, and they'll understand that message well, that they sleep peacefully, that they don't care about their future, that the Serbian government will take care of them, as it has led to so far, and that no one should worry about them in the media or in any other way. They will have the right to a decent age, although many have so far taken and spent and even spent the future of our children for it. Camberi, please pay for the electricity. We won't tolerate not paying for electricity. I'm totally serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6444	The word has Minister Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6445	Mr. Marinkovic, thank you for asking. The final exam, as I've been saying so far, has too many functions in it. We're trying one universal test to solve all the problems, which is practically not possible. Fortunately, one of those functions slowly winds up and looks like we don't need it anymore. It's a selection function. A test that serves only to rank students on enrolment in high school is hardly necessary when there is enough room for all primary school students and 88% of students are enrolled in just those schools they listed as one of their first three choices. That means that almost everyone has a good idea of where they belong and that they're actually getting into those schools. Of course, there are 12% of those who are unhappy, who may not have worked hard enough and because of these 12% test must still exist. However, another function that we consider to be much more important than this selection is the function of evaluating the education system. That's where we need to have tests from more than two subjects. That's where we need to have a greater variety of tasks. We also need to examine what paper, pens, and tests cannot provide, examine both skills and examine how students adopt attitudes. To do this, we need this final exam to be realized in an atmosphere that's a little less stressful than it's ever been. This year we've shown that the test can be done regularly, that it ends the way it's supposed to and that the cramp doesn't have to be that much. This gives us the encouragement that next year, in a slightly more relaxed atmosphere, we will make tests of which we will benefit more in terms of assessing the quality of the subject, the way we work in certain schools, not just to carry out the test in order to rank the students, because they are doing it pretty well themselves anyway. One day, I hope not so far away, all our founding fathers will go to high school and hope they think hard about which schools they want to go to. It's our job to sort out this bad balance between different types of schools in some way. So, unfortunately, at this point, some high school stays with a large number of unfulfilled places, while for some schools, which students perceive as an easier way to get to the university, we have a rush and eight to one number of interested ones, just because it looks like that school will go easier and get to college. It's on the education system to close those shortcuts, and that those who want to go to college really get an adequate secondary education before they get to college, otherwise, they're still going to go to college and that's where his career ends, which is exactly where we don't want it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6446	Mr. Marinkovic, supplemental.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6447	Another question for Minister Verbic, and he gave me a creamworth through the answer, to comment only, that the great interest and attempt to enroll many more children in colleges than possible, and of course the situation in the labour market shows us that this is not even necessary, influences that Serbia's re-industrious process itself cannot take place if we do not have children on crafts and in professional secondary schools. I'll just give you the information that only up to two years ago has eight departments enrolled in professional technical schools, and now it's one department. My specific question concerns the Horizon 2020 project. We from the SDPS are wondering, what will be the role of the Ministry of State? It's a project that involves a budget or an 80 billion-euro fund. A fund that should allow for the development of entrepreneurship and a better relationship between industry and higher education institutions, the development of their common agendas and research projects, so I would like you to tell us something more detailed about it, and what role the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development will play in this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6448	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6449	The Horizon 2020 programme is a programme that unites scientists in Europe, giving them equal chances of getting money for their projects. But that money is hard to get. This was also seen in previous versions of this program in FP6 and FP7 programs. However, this has shown that our scientists can still get more from the European Funds than we do as a membership in European funds and we believe that this will also be the case with Horizon 2020. This time, the application procedure has been simplified for different fields of science evenly. So it will be easier to build joint projects, apply together for European funds, and it will be easier to connect with partner institutions abroad. There is also the possibility for small and medium-sized enterprises to apply for these funds, but there is no need to raise false hopes that any company there can apply. It needs to be a company that's capable of making a transfer of knowledge. So, something from science to transfer to the economy. Unfortunately, we don't have enough of these companies, but that's exactly what we want to push through the technology park and the funds for innovation work. This is exactly what we want to see in our country, independent of international projects, that they are actually a model for companies that will be able to engage in international projects. That model wouldn't be good for Horizon 2020 alone. This model would also be extremely good for a future national scientific foundation that would actually mix the distribution of resources for scientific research from the Ministry in the sphere where scientists themselves would decide on the criteria of competitiveness, competence on who gets the most money for research. In this way, they would also enable themselves to better connect with other partners abroad and obtain greater amounts than from these funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6450	Vladimir Marinkovic, a comment, and have Milorad Stosic prepare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6451	Excuse me, one more quick question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6452	You have no right to ask, just to comment on what you've heard, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6453	Then I'll comment. Satisfyed with the general response that you try, Minister, that in the coming period when the project is up to date to bring together all social factors, starting with employers' associations, workers' associations, NGOs, all those who can help in this process to accelerate innovation, research science, but in the domain of development, of course, and in order to develop our economy, in order to make it more competitive and better compared, especially to economies in the region and globally. So thank you again for your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6454	The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6455	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I have three sets of questions to ask, relating to the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, that is, Minister Kori Udovicki. In 2013, the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration joined the creation of the Law on Inspective Control with the support of USAID through the project "For Better Terms of Business" and the German organisation GIZ through the project "Improvement of Law Making in the Republic of Serbia". Now, Madam Minister, you mention you're working on a draft inspection law. The questions for this area are – as far as this law has been drawn up, or another question to prevent you from duplicating inspection supervision or transferring responsibility from one to another inspection, which so far has been a common case and frequent occurrence? The second set of questions concerns your statement that you said that at the end of August, the Serbian government will establish a bill on employees in the AP and units of local self-government that will improve the system of working relations. You said it was the first in a series of reform laws for local self-government. Are you planning a public debate on this law? The question is raised, it is inevitable that after the adoption of this law, there will be extra workers in the bodies, i.e. a certain number of cancellations – how much will you estimate these surpluses? What's going to happen to those surpluses? And if you have information on how many of these surpluses are there in the state administration and how many in public enterprises? A third set of issues, individual provisions of the National Minority Council Act are not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. At a court meeting held on 16 January 2014, the Constitutional Court ruled that some provisions of the National Minority Law were not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Do you plan to amend the National Minority Councils Act? Are you going to put all the representatives of the national councils in the draft of that law? Will a special task force be formed with representatives of national councils and national minorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6456	Thank you. The word has a Udovici minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6457	Thank you, MP. First, your question about the inspection law, it's really a lot of time in preparation because it's a very complex matter. The first question it had to decide on was precisely because of the existence of overlapping and lack of coordination between different inspections and different resolution services, whether to go to the creation of one central inspection service, one general inspection or one more flexible solution that would create a coordination mechanism between these resolution inspections or leave them by the ministries. The definition is very strong at the end of a very long observation, before this government, and it is accepted again and now in our consideration, that it should be one co-ordination body, where the resorient inspections will remain under the resolution ministries. There are very rare solutions in the world and only perhaps one in the Republic of Serbia that was created, so to speak, from zero, is just that solution we know, where the central inspections are actually very successful. In all other situations, there is a better solution with some kind of coordination, but with the rest in the vaults. How do you avoid overlapping? It will be quite a challenge for our state administration, because we do not have, we have not developed many such mechanisms so far, and that is to establish a coordinating body at the centre of the government with a professional service that will support it and that will collect all data on the entities to be monitored, make an assessment of the risks, risks for which different inspections and exist. Where some entity is subject to a number of inspections, they make plans that will fit different resolutions for each subject. So there's going to be a coordination from the center, and it's going to be based on the analysis that's going to be needed to prepare a strong information and analytical base. Most importantly, at the end of this process that is likely to take place throughout next year, we will have an inspection that will be able to target the most risky subjects, to send in inspections that really go to help, first of all, to avoid risks, and not to catch someone, especially by a hair in the egg. Then we'll have an inspection that won't be used as an excuse for not having jurisdiction over something, so that we don't notice something that's done, and on the other hand, we don't send an inspection into the least risky companies or entities because it's the easiest place to do it, and leave the non-risk entities unsupervised. Most importantly, although you are not registered, you will be able and you will be subject to inspection, which is not often the case today. When it comes to your second question, the Law on Employees in the AP and local self-government has already passed a public, official and formal public debate already in the previous period, and we have now renewed it in a shortened procedure and we expect to collect the latest suggestions and prepare this proposal for the government by the end of August, and it will go to the Assembly with a percentage. Your question about surpluses is very important. Many of these days are spoken and there is some anxiety, and perhaps the public impatience to come out with the data, and I must stress that at this point we have relatively reliable numbers, and thanks to the Ministry of Finance in the previous government, which for the first time made such an effort, that we know at all how many employees there are, and not how many surpluses there are. An estimate of surpluses is a process that requires us to know how many people we need in each institution, and in order to know how many people we need in each institution, we need to know what the task of each institution is. These are all tasks and jobs that have actually been done in all these years, since the reforms started on their way to the EU, since 2001, it has not been clear whose mission they are. This is the first time the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government has actually been uniting the task and determining, dealing with what the structure of the body should be, but also how many employees and how many salaries and, in doing so properly, is just being established. However, it is clear that the most serious surpluses we are talking about are actually in public enterprises. When we look at the authorities of the state administration, and often this is also the case at local level, although not always, we see that the number of employees did not grow the way it did in dependent institutions or, above all, in public enterprises, or institutions and institutions over the previous years. What's more worrying, we see very often that there's actually an inadequateness in the structure, that we lack good skills, that it's an inflexible system in which, above all, it's a job that's ahead of us, to see how to lift their performance, how to become more operational bodies. We can do this, and I think my colleagues and many ministers would agree, to face great difficulties in getting results from these ministries and state bodies as needed by Serbia. So at this point, the ministry has provided funds that will help us identify, however in the state administration, in the rest of this year, because public enterprises are not engaged in this ministry. We will ensure that by the end of the year we can identify where, nevertheless in the state, or public administration, without public enterprises, there are obviously surpluses, and they exist in the smaller institutions most often and prepare to work on it next year. However, it is not the main objective of the process of reducing surpluses, but of redecorating the organisation and directing capacities and institutions to do what needs to be done and often will be re-employment from one part to another. Finally, when it comes to the Law on National Councils, on national minorities, as you know, we have before us elections for national councils, and we will wait for these elections to be completed, to establish national councils, and then, with that new mandate, we will go into the making of a new law or amendments and amendments to the law, but we will see this further, in order to comply with the findings of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6458	The word is Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6459	Thank you for these answers, when it comes to this first set of inspection services issues, I would really like to see them live once in this country, given that our citizens or people who have certain objections, that from various ministries, above all, on a state level, walk from one ministry to another, as far as inspection supervision is concerned, but it is also in local self-governments. Especially in cities with urban municipalities, given that there are various inspections by that vertical at the level of the city and at the level of urban municipalities, but there are also horizontal and by various administrations and we constantly come into a situation to send us from one administration to another or from the city to the municipality, and there are always some inspectors who declare themselves incompetent and then the citizens have a problem. I'm glad if this system is arranged, that the inspection services are really working and that when the citizens get into one inspection service, they can solve the problem. As for this second set of surpluses, I thank you for your honesty that we are not able as a state to determine the number of employees, and on that basis we cannot even estimate how many surpluses we will have. I cannot accept that there is no way to determine in this country how many employees there are in that state administration, if we just look at the example of our parliament, where there are 250 MPs, 250 salaries. If we single out a number of funds or financial money for certain salaries, we need to know who these salaries are going for, so I think we should be serious and know exactly how many employees we have at every moment, and if we do this law, there will be cases of these surpluses showing up and we know what we're going to do with these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6460	The word is Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6461	If I may just add, based on what you've been reminding me of with your comments. It is in inspection services that is one of the areas where there are often shortages, both purely in the number of inspectors, both in quality and in training. Recently, this government in the tax inspection, namely in the administration on one hand, has offered them 400 employees to get dressed up and overqualified to work as tax inspectors, which is a huge gain for our capacity, to charge tax revenues. I just wanted to explain, we've established the number of employees, there, so that's no longer a problem, although there's still no proper permanent register. Creating a proper permanent register also requires time and one of the key conditions for us to strengthen the transition to electronic administration, but what will require even more time and analysis, these are functional analyses that will tell us exactly where and how many surpluses are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6462	Milorad Stosic, commentary. Get Senic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6463	As far as this third question is concerned, I have not received an answer whether a special task force will be formed with representatives of the national councils, which will be included in the draft of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6464	Ministers, you no longer have the right to answer. The word has Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6465	Thank you, Madam President. To be clear at first, I am paying the electricity and paying all taxes, so I have probably qualified to talk in this sense, but it is also necessary for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to respect the legally binding documents brought by this National Assembly. For example, the resolution on the role of the National Assembly and the principles and negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU requires that the Government refer the proposal for a negotiating position to the European Integration Committee on a particular chapter. The resolution was passed on 16 December last year and the government has still failed to comply with its resolution. I'm getting information that a proposal for a negotiating position for Chapter 31 has been set out today, perhaps you can confirm or that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6466	No, 32.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6467	Worse, 32. Therefore, a negotiating position for Chapter 32 was established and the procedure was not respected, so the Committee on European Integration did not give an opinion and recommendations, the national convention did not give an opinion and recommendations and the government established a negotiating position in the opposite resolution adopted by the National Assembly in December of last year. So my question to the Prime Minister – when will the Government coordinate the procedure in accordance with the Resolution adopted by this National Assembly? Also, the second issue concerns the prime minister's exposure, which said that in the first 100 days of this government, a change in the legal framework that defines the conditions of business in Serbia will be made. This change in the legal framework also provides for the adoption of a total of 13 laws, including the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Foreign Investments, the Law on Public Enterprises, the Law on temporary harmonisation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. profits from the beneficiaries of public funds. Payment classes, Public Resources Register Act and their employees and persons employed, Law on civil servants, Insurance Act, Mortgage Act. Thus, eight out of the 13 laws announced for the first hundred days of the government were not passed and are not in the assembly procedure. So, the story of the government keeping 92% of the promises doesn't stand. If we take and divide eight by 13, that's it. Five by 13, we get a 38% score, and that's away from 92. My question is, when will these laws be in congregation procedure and when will they be passed?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6468	The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6469	Thank you. Today we have established a negotiating position for Chapter 32, I don't know what the procedure is, although a mistake has been made, we will certainly correct it. I'm also saying that no mistake has been made, but if it is, it has no intention whatsoever. So we're going to make that right anyway, and I agree to do it at any time. As for the number of laws, you took from one segment, you did not say that the most important laws in the area of improving the investment environment were brought or are in progress. The most important law to improve the investment environment for all investors, the roof law, the fundamental law that I was sure you would support, is the Labour Act, but it was easier because people are not happy whenever things are so big and important in the country change. They are not happy, although this law creates conditions to promote competition, competition, what the world requires of us so that it can invest in this country. Like these privatisation and bankruptcy laws, as well as the Law on the PIO Fund, it was not promised, and at the top of the reforms that the World Bank is talking about, but from the very body of law regarding improving the investment environment, we have passed the most important laws. I can say from all areas that I'm satisfied, we passed 31 laws. In a hundred days, the 31st law, we've had floods for 40 days, as you know. I know that our people and that we are all always dissatisfied, and I am dissatisfied with my work, although I haven't had one Saturday and a week off, I'm never satisfied with the work of the ministers, but I'm just asking you, since you've been asking questions in a very serious way, so I answer you, look at this moment, you have twice as many ministers in the O.R. than opposition MPs. I think it also tells Serbian citizens about seriousness, responsibility and concern for the people. I think what we started today at 4:00 and some people are making fun of me and making fun of me when I say at some meeting that I was 14 minutes late, our government, our Rasim and Dacic are here, never happened that governments aren't late, like they're not late today. They can be three to four minutes late. Never in the history of the Serbian government, I can tell you that since 1998, it has never happened, they used to be two, three hours late, waiting for ministers, they don't know what they're going to do with themselves, they're waiting until they find themselves. Then a new system was introduced and this is not the answer for you, a new system has been introduced – let's use the phone and let's hear from each other and we have no idea what we're bringing. This isn't from my domain, I know it was in the government session today, so I told you that. As for the law on these laws, yes, we're going to pass a new law on public enterprises, waiting for Mr. Gilas to be here to vote for that law, because we're going to be part of the things he suggested we respect. We expect another very important law on civil servants, as a continuation of this fundamental Labour Act, to be passed, of course, as well as the mortgage law, as well as many other laws, and I think, the Law on Planning and Construction, is currently in the public debate, that someone would not tell us that the public debate is not finished. As we have managed to complete a public debate on a set of media laws that we are boasting, because these are hundreds of times better solutions than those that have been and are moving forward with Europe's greatest free-of-laws and respect for the human rights of media freedoms, etc., as the EU acknowledges, as everyone else admits, so we will also do with the Law on Planning and Construction. This is where we expect your support because we have to start a business in Serbia, shorten procedures, sit down and talk with you to agree to see what is the best solution to conversion. He's at a public hearing right now. Let's get into it. It'll be our first law there on August 25th. These are the very laws that serve to improve the investment environment. We still have the law. We've passed 13 laws, if I'm not mistaken, from the area of criminal law enforcement, but I expect we'll have more important laws, about alarmers and many other laws that are very important to us, but we don't have a problem. Every time you want to point out that we broke and that you couldn't get to know each other or that the board wasn't familiar, we're always going to meet because, as you know, we write, we're going with the draft law, and that draft goes into public debate. It is only later that we, in the form of the proposal, send it to you, but before that, in the form of the draft, it passes through the sieve and the sieve and the European Commission, as you know, and none of these laws that we went through without getting the European Commission's green light. So, every law, when you talk about it, and it's good to criticize them, it's good to attack them, it's passed and received the approval of the European Commission. For this set of laws, we waited six months for the European Commission and the Council of Europe, if I am not mistaken, which was even, as they say, more competent for that, to get a favourable opinion. We've been given a favourable opinion. So, I'm only asking that in the future, when there is such a problem, call one of your colleagues, call one of the ministers, leave a message with me in the cabinet, call me, we'll intervene, and we'll solve this problem. It is our intention to discuss this with you, because on the road to full membership in the EU, not only can the government participate. We need the opposition here, we need your help and support, and we need to do it together. As I am pleased with some normal reactions that come from the opposition to certain matters concerning the state, so please tell us where you are absolutely clear that somewhere we may not have done something in accordance with the procedure immediately and tell us immediately. Be assured that you will always get direct support from us and that we will show that we understand that. As for 100 days, 100 days is there on Monday or Tuesday. In difficult conditions where no one has waited for anything for a day, we've been attacked all the time, we've passed the most important laws, if we have most of them, for privatisation, bankruptcy and these three media laws. This means that the most important work and the hardest work of these first difficult reforms have been carried out. We have more difficult things ahead of us, but I think things are going slowly in Serbia, but they must be getting better. I want to take a chance, you'll see, and by that, you'll be surprised, as we've saved a part of the money. We showed you everything, even what we didn't spend on spending. You'll see it through budget rebalancing. You'll see it through the budget that, say, what's on 621 is that we haven't spent nearly anything. It's 36 billion that we've allocated to the social programme, because we're still fighting for workers and businesses. We have in the Fund for Development 15 billion, we have part of the public enterprises we can take, in euros I can tell you, about 100 million euros, so we can see how and in what way those fiscal consolidation measures, which we have talked about, have been directed and made to the level to which people will understand it well because they know that it is for the health of public finances, that it is for a healthy state, without being hit hard and that people are not seriously affected. Thank you again for that. The Serbian government has proposed 31 laws to the Assembly, which in such a short period of time, and especially so important laws, so systematic and so essential laws, I don't think any government has proposed, and has not adopted any assembly councils, perhaps in 2002, and after that ever again. After that, absolutely never again that system laws are so important, so difficult, troublesome laws that do not enjoy great trust in the public, laws that you do not give to anyone, but make a normal country of your country and that is why I am very proud. I said 92%, that's because one big thing we didn't do, and it's a matter of financial consolidation. We've done everything else. I think that people in Serbia are happy that we have not taken that measure, although I think that the delay in taking that measure could only bring serious problems to the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6470	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6471	As for the Law of Planning and Construction, we have, if anything, many unfulfilled promises on the truth, that the law will be in May, so that it will be in June, so that it is in public debate. In July, no one mentioned it, so you can go on a true-timer yourself and see how many times the public has been deceived by the deadline in which this law will be passed. I am, as it is my profession, a lifelong interest in this law, so as far as I'm concerned, you will have full capacity for consulting services, of course free of charge. The objection that the opposition is not present and that we want something bad, here, Minister Vujovic can confirm that the NDS amendments to the Privatisation Act have all been adopted except one. So, only one of all the amendments we've submitted has not been adopted. So much for our constructive approach to the laws that are being adopted in this home. That's why we're asking you to respect as Government what's being brought into this home. Third, I want to ask you a question about political responsibility. We tried to find out from Ivica Dacic whether he felt responsible because this is the situation in the police, because all the management chiefs were resolved and kept calling for someone not to allow him and that he was being pressured, etc. I can ask you why you've been putting pressure on the Prime Minister and the Police Minister over the past two years, if we consider his statement that he's been under pressure? I ask you, have you been putting pressure on the last two years when he was Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, and you're the first Deputy Prime Minister, so he doesn't reform the police, that the police are so criminalized, and that police reforms have to wait for someone from the SNS to arrive at the head of that resistor so that they can be executed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6472	Thank you. The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6473	I would ask the Adriatic to respond later, because she knows better than I do about European integration. As for the Law of Planning and Construction, I don't see it, to tell you the truth, because you mentioned it because they rarely take it out of context, and I don't know how to take it out of the context that they said they would, so they never did. I don't know if it's possible in May or June or June and May, it wasn't possible because of the flood, and if it's going to be in July and August, I don't see that there's a big difference. As you can see, the law is over and the law is in public debate and will be adopted here, I said for the first time, whether it will be August 25th or 28th, it doesn't matter. We also had to postpone the adoption of the Labour Act, but we also adopted the Law on Privatisation and Banks Act, but we also adopted the Law on Pension-Inhabitation, but we also adopted this set of media laws that finally made Serbia a modern and democratic country, but we adopted it. We adopted it all because you didn't adopt it. I'm sorry, all that you haven't adopted in the past 10 years, we've adopted in the first 100 days and received support from the European Commission and, if you will, less criticism from people in Serbia, although it is normal for people to criticise. I respect you very much. Vujovic when he came to the government and your party and the amendments that you submit... Can you see that no one has anything against the amendments you're submitting? We've almost all accepted. One of us was a problem because it was mentioned with the capital of the property, it was an amendment to the LSV, otherwise we wanted to adopt everything. That's the one we adopted on the board later. We found a way on the board to adopt him. As you can see, that's how the government behaves, and what do we adopt when someone 50 or 100 amendments say nothing? The amendment says nothing, or it doesn't say anything, and those amendments that are meaningful, like you made them, that are in line with the policy I know you're up for, and it's okay when in opposition... You know, there's one thing I wanted to talk about in Serbia today. Everyone knows this had to be brought. Everyone knows it's good for Serbia, but it's easy and nice to criticize it. I used to do that and apologized to the citizens about it. Now that the hardest time has come, everyone knows it has to go that way. You know, it will ultimately be a good result for Serbia, but let's criticise it because the people are not satisfied with something. The people aren't happy when they don't see the second in their pocket. He's not patient to wait a year or two, it's understood that's the case. Please, because tomorrow you will be power, because the irresponsible will never come to power, and the responsible people will come to power. Responsible people will have to behave responsibly. What do you want? You want me to arrest someone today for a contract with the Fiat? You want us to arrest someone for a deal with Azerbaijan? Will you not know what to say, what many others are saying today? That's how irresponsible people behave. As for the political stories about Ivica Dacic and the Ministry of the Interior, I didn't understand everything and I don't want to get into these party things. From what I understand, Mr. Dacic was talking about some of the previous times, some of the other politicians, who didn't give him any interference. As far as I'm concerned, when he asked me to help him, as First Deputy Prime Minister, I helped him. I've never been involved in anything other than that. I've been doing my job within those 24 objects and we're continuing those 24 objects. Speaking of which, you didn't ask me that, but I'll tell you. I saw some say – well, appoint Miskovic as director of "Serbiagas". That is what those who have appointed Miskovic as head of Serbia, those who have asked him to be the director of all banks in Serbia, the director of all public enterprises, to be minister in all ministries, to be Prime Minister and President of the state, and against Miskovic have never conducted the procedure. This state and some other government are leading against Miskovic's proceedings and by the end of the year, I assume, there will be a first-degree verdict. You say they didn't pay taxes. I have now drawn the papers as much as Beko, Miskovic and others paid taxes. All of a sudden, they're on their way. I read it today. I got it in my papers. (Alexander Senic, from the scene: I didn't say that. I didn't say you said that. You didn't say that. Some others are lost, sitting there left of you or right of your corner. Now let me answer you, they say – they don't pay taxes. I pulled for that former director of your Democratic Party, which was Miodrag Kostic. The tax from 2012 and 2013 and every year is being paid more and more. In 2012, his company, MK Grupa, Sunoko, Agrogloub, MK Holding and AIK, paid 94.8m euros. The same company, in 2013, paid 98.3m euros. I didn't sell sugarcanes in 2001 or 2002 or 2003. As for Mr. Bek, in the companies "Knjiz Milos", "Bambi", "Kanjiza" pay taxes on a regular basis. There's no backlog in paying taxes, but there's a tax problem in the next thing. It's important that the citizens hear this. These tax problems were not identified by those who dared to say something today, because when they checked it out, when they sent control, everything was paid. It's about the 2007 tax. You sent control of 2008, 2009 and 2010 and confirmed that in Luci "Belgrade" everything was fine. One new government, which no one determines will be excluded from the law, said in 2013 – you owe seven million and 400,000 euros, and now they have interest on it. Now, Luke "Belgrade" is in debt, and Luke "Belgrade", if I recall, was not sold by the government where I am, but by you. Wait, guys, you're giving us taxes today that we're trying to collect, and you didn't even register it, or we forced all of them to pay taxes, and you didn't even register it. I have to tell you that tax authorities will... (The National MP Gordana Comic throws out of place. Mrs. Comić, don't get it. Being vice president in your party doesn't mean you have the right to throw yourself into the National Assembly. I reckon all MPs should respect that, as we never throw it to you. I see that every time I mention your relationship with the tycoons, you've always got something to throw at me. Don't worry, that's how it's gonna stay at the pitch. As for "The Railway" and everything else, so at a meeting with them, I say to people, we have problems, our public enterprises are making losses, and they start talking to me always about the NPL. It's non-perfuming loans, loans they can't repay, etc. I say, come on, don't tell me any more about your problems, which is why you don't show all your abilities on the worst companies, on the one where we have the biggest problems, where both yours and ours haven't managed very well. Today we pay 130m euros, and we paid 170m euros when yours are today, when our 130m euros are a subsidy. Bad anyway, whatever you turn around. Let's see if we can put that down. To someone more as a punishment, not as a reward to say, they jumped, and you made deals with the tycoons. We don't negotiate with anyone about respect for law and law, with anyone. In this country, the law is the same for everyone. It's the same for Miskovic. It's the same for Beck. It's the same for me. It's the same for Komic. It's the same for you, Mr. Senic. It's the same for Camberi. And it'll be the same. In the end, for 100 days, we will soon put forward a plan for what we will do by the end of the year. I think there's one thing that matters. I think it is important for people in Serbia to see that we stick to the plan, the programme, and that one day, no matter what it looks like at this point, they will be able to say that what we did for Serbia was worth it, even if someone else bought the fruits of that work instead. I'm proud of our responsibility, our seriousness, our dedication. I'm proud of our honesty, and I'm going to answer in the end, because it's the only question I haven't answered today, and about the plagiarism, that it wouldn't have been that I'd forgotten anything and not that I'd been avoiding questioning in the National Assembly or that we'd have to do something about it or that we wouldn't have said something and that had to be said. Anyway, I want this opportunity to thank the members of the government for their discipline, for my work. Look, you have more than 15 ministers, and there aren't many more than 15 in the government. You have more than 15 members of the government in the National Assembly here, so remind me when this happened in Serbian parliamentary practice. If nothing, it's another shift for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6474	The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6475	I have an obligation to divulge the suspicion that MP Senic introduced in respect of respect, i.e. not respecting the procedure, presenting the negotiating position and positions for Chapter 32, which relate to financial control, not to 31, since it is a common foreign and security policy. It's really a diametric difference, but good. You will manage in this place, it is very responsible, the chairman of the Committee on European Integration. However, what you have done seems to me to have been incorrect since you have used the term to find out that the negotiating position has been adopted. You don't know, but we've informed you. Personally, me and Mrs Miscevic, therefore, the head of the negotiating team, we have made it clear to you that today we are adopting a negotiating position, given that part of the criticism you have referred to is correct, which is that the amended conclusion, that is, has not always changed the conclusion of the Government, which is directed and coordinated by the authorities of the State Administration in the process of creating negotiating positions, which would be in line with what the resolutions in which I, as a member of the Committee on European Integration, have actively participated and even, will testify to your colleagues from that committee who have remained, even now insisting and put in place personal provisions concerning the binding work of what the government is doing towards the National Assembly, so that we do not have a personal motive, nor does this government have the motive to avoid it. If the failure was made he was made because so far it has not changed the conclusion, but that means that the procedure is not in any way unrespectable, if I can use that rhubarb term. Therefore, we have informed you of this. At the same time, we have informed you and announced to you that tomorrow we will refer to the Committee, the relevant Assembly Committee on European Integration, a negotiating position to be informed and to keep you up to date. I also point you to the fact that there are still no obligations under the law to consider classified information regarding the premises, you also know very well that the negotiating position, I can't even talk about it now, given that it's under confidentiality. So, these conditions are not met either, in part, the conclusion may and may not have been reached, but there is no justification in any case for the procedure being respected, we, as chairman of the Committee, have respected you, informed you. Tomorrow you'll see the negotiating position and you and all the board members interested, but I don't think there really is that kind of criticism, and I just wanted to make it simple. And in future, of course, as soon as the government's conclusion is changed, the Assembly Committee will have the same function as it has and belongs to it, and it will be since September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6476	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Senic, commentary, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6477	Thank you. To me, if no procedure has been broken, then it is not clear why the government's conclusion is changing. I'll quote Resolution, point 17. – before establishing a negotiating position for a particular chapter, the Government shall submit a proposal for a negotiating position to the Committee on European Integration. Today, the government has established a negotiating position and has not sent a proposal to the committee responsible so that the resolution is violated and that is unequivocally correct. I thank you for the answers to the outstanding questions, I did not really mention "The Railway", or "Luku". The only thing I can finally figure out, one of my friends when he saw today that Beko might be, these are journalistic speculations, I really don't know if it's true, becoming the director of the Railways called me and asked me – well, are we really going back to the '90s? Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6478	Thank you. I apologize for the round of questions, Mrs. Comic will now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6479	Thank you. Two issues, first for the Prime Minister, second for the Minister for European Integration. But first, since the Prime Minister is interested in introducing order, thinking he's throwing himself at him, throwing it away, I'd leave you without any doubt, what am I throwing at? It was a dilemma of colleagues why they were answering outstanding questions, I said – you know, a man came and said everything he wanted, by the way, I think it's legitimate and that it should be done by the Prime Ministers because they carry the greatest responsibility. So, if I ever throw myself away for the first time in my life, you won't have any doubt that I'm doing it, now it wasn't the case. The first question - concerns the law that we adopted, and on the basis of which it was formed under the powers of the ministry in the government, and the law is in one of its provisions, which concerned the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Social Affairs, abolished the Directorate for Gender Equality. There was a dilemma here about whether it was because of the savings, because it was three million dinars, however, it was clear that there was no reason for saving and that we were all MPs valuefully and with enough information about this Administration, with the completely understandable support of the ruling majority to be abolished with a completely understandable criticism of us from the opposition to establish ourselves. At that point in the debate, information was given that the office would be formed, that it was one of the ideas and then the prime minister is now the Prime Minister, which I also assessed as a good solution. So my question for the Prime Minister -- does he stay, is that information correct? Does it remain, though, that a birth equality office will be formed because it is simply a necessary mechanism for which we do not have a dispute between ourselves? Another question for the Ministerial of European Integration with a request to understand me, I ask more about those who are watching us than because Mrs. Minister or I do not have enough information. We have very different information in public on the way the country started negotiations is obliged to follow EU foreign policy. Very often this information, semi-information is misused in creating a public opinion that it all comes down to the question of whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia is now in general ahead of pressure and ultimatums, which is a word that is not used as the Italian foreign minister said it would decide on sanctions for Russia, or for full monitoring of EU foreign policy. I would ask you briefly to do more public work together to explain how decisions are made with a note that if you need to be in the National Assembly on this too, it will be the support of your portfolio, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia in its decisions on how it will behave in the next six months, a year, because it does not seem that the crisis in this sense will, unfortunately, be smaller and that you have the support of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6480	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6481	First of all, in the 1990s, I don't know who your friend is, but I believe you have better company. As for the 1990s, there were worse than the 1990s. I don't know where you found what you found in the '90s in all this. Milan Beko was not half as rich as he became two thousand, and so on. Not all of these people were half as rich as they became two thousand and so forth. Some of them were shadow police ministers, some were prime ministers. My idea was, my, not anyone's, it didn't go to the government, nowhere, I don't even know if those people would accept it, I haven't seen myself. About Railways, if you're asking me if I think the man I love is a man, I respect Dragoljub Simonovic's better manager than Beck, I don't think. You don't think, and nobody in this room thinks, but you don't care what the railroad score is going to have, you don't care because you're only interested in something that you would politically attack. I am interested in what the result of "The Railway" will be, I am interested in the money of the people of Serbia and the money of the Serbian citizens. That's what we're different about. As for outstanding questions, I have to answer those questions that you ask when I'm gone, because when I'm gone, you go outside. You threaten three days of what you will ask me and what you will tell me, and when I come you will not ask me anything. I'd better answer you so you don't ask those questions in my absence. I'm lucky you're setting them up for me. I see you like being very brave when I'm not here. I'm so fond of you to be brave and say it when I'm here, I can answer you nicely. So I gave you an advance answer to everything you didn't have the courage to ask today. As for the Agency for Gender Equality, was it run by someone from the DS? Is it? It doesn't matter, but it does. Okay. As for the Agency for Gender Equality, we raised it to a higher level, the Secretary of State took it into his own hands. It's his jurisdiction today. If there are any problems with Gordan, let me know and we'll solve these problems. If there's a problem in the system, and if you have any suggestions, we'll make it right. As far as this second question is concerned, it is the most serious issue for the state of Serbia right now, I am telling you right now, we will go to the National Assembly and do it in closed session. We're going to ask you a closed session, and hopefully we'll have an understanding for a closed session so we can tell you what the state is facing at this point, so we can tell you what challenges we're facing, so we can see if we can go any further or we can't, or someone else will take over. I'm not going to joke or play with whether it's for Serbian Serbia, European Serbia or not. This is a very serious matter. Otherwise, since this government was formed, and that Ivica Dacic did well, out of 14 declarations and resolutions we voted for 10, in 10 we joined which is 72%. In the previous government, that level of accession was 38%. We have increased drastically, and in everything we have agreed with the EU, except that we have not agreed to four acts on sanctions against, or against, the Russian Federation. Serbia's policy is such that we are going to Europe, to go towards EU membership, but I'm sorry, we have not even participated in the decision-making of sanctions in the Russian Federation. We also have our own economic interests, we have our own and other state interests. We have made it clear that we respect Ukraine's territorial integrity, because this also protects our position on KIM, thus protecting Serbia's position both in Europe and in the UN. We made that clear to our Russian partners, but I also have to tell you, look what we're facing. The trade exchange with the Russian Federation is making the most of our progress every year. Since they announced an increase in gas prices today, I ask you - and how will we rule if the price of gas is increased for Serbia as well? And like this, we're not able to pay off that gas. If someone raises us from 400 to 500, I don't know what Serbia would do, I'm telling you now, because I know all the balances well and I know all the bills, I mean better than anyone in Serbia, because of the nature of the position and the function I perform. I don't know what we'd do. I ask those who imposed sanctions, and they tell us, we will impose sanctions on you in this sphere, in this sphere, in this sphere, but we will not in the gas sector. Wait, people, I guess Serbia has the right to think about itself, its territory, its people and its future. If we are led to someone telling us – you have to tear down all yours, and I don't believe it, no one has told us so far and that's not what happened. Indeed, no one spoke the language of the ultimatum. Do not doubt that a session of the Assembly will be called and I cannot tell you how scared I am and how many nights I do not sleep waiting and hoping for peace in the east of Ukraine, because it would solve Serbian problems. Like this, and more than you, more than anyone else in the O.R., I'm shaking for fear because of every bullet that fires there, because I know how it goes on Serbia. I just want to tell you that we will at any more serious moment, I hope that you agree with this policy of the Republic of Serbia that we are leading at this moment, and I think that the majority of citizens agree with that, if you have any objections, I would like to hear them, and at the same time, if we are in a different situation, and we are in such a difficult situation that it is not easy for me to imagine the weightier, but if there is such a situation, the National Assembly is always the best place to decide. We are leading policy in favour of and in the interests of the people and citizens of Serbia, it is our priority. No one asked us about anything when certain decisions were made. We will see to it that we increase the percentage of compliance with EU decisions, even though we have not opened Chapter 31, let alone closed it. So we're going to watch all of this, but I'm sorry, because I can say it completely openly, you know, there are people who've been guarding themselves, or they've kept their power at all costs, or they've stolen a lot of it or they've killed a lot of others. To tell you the truth, the great Russo Gete said that a free man is the one with a clear conscience. You don't know how hard it makes me feel about the situation in Ukraine and how free I feel about how clean my conscience is. It is no problem for the government to pay the price of its policy, but in the National Assembly you will have to tell us what an alternative is and what a different policy we can or would have to lead. At this point, I don't see it, and I think the Serbian government is running a truly Serbian, patriotic and European policy, but a policy that takes care of its countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6482	The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Please, by 19.00, that's the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6483	Thank you. I'll be brief, given that the prime minister has already given a clear political answer, but you've asked me something and a rope of it. What does that really mean? I know from the time that we were on the Committee together that you know both politics and EU law and I know that your question is in place. To explain exactly what these are our obligations. Based on the SAA, you know very well that our obligation is to consult the EU and to coordinate as much as possible. At the same time, each country in the process has one part of the right to retain a broader foreign policy framework and the right to protect specificities and specific relations. At this point, we have actually maintained the specificity of our national economic interests in relation to the Russian Federation. What it is, Chapter 31, is a political chapter. That is why decisions in this chapter are broken both through the European Commission and through the European External Affairs Service. The EU's legal assets in this area are also political declarations and statements and international agreements. The prime minister spoke of the extent to which we agreed to some of the resolutions. Last year it was 88%, on average this year it's less because of what it is. Since the formation of this government, and I will repeat what the Prime Minister has already said, indeed of the 14 resolutions we have adopted 10. Therefore, if we could absolutely apply all the standards of 31, we would be part of the decision-making process, not only of those who can implement and we would already be in the EU. So I don't think it's about ultimatums, but, of course, it's a sensitive position, and we expect to have a political consensus in this Assembly too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6484	The word has Gordana Comic, an additional question, three minutes, although we will be a little over 19.00 hours, but I cannot interrupt the procedure in half the question. There you go, Gordana.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6485	Thank you. Since the Prime Minister said - Gordana, report to the Office for Gender Equality, Alexander, just give the order to the Secretary of State to do a document on the Office for Gender Equality and we don't have to report back, everything's fine. I am grateful to both the Prime Minister and the Minister. I think we understand very well that this is not the only topic in which it is necessary to see in action that Serbia has a consensus long-reaching, hard-to-reach, years-long-reaching, still underdeveloped in communication with people living in Serbia, but definitely a consensus on European change, European integration and all the rules that, if we understand it, we all have to respect. It is the only context in which I have asked the President of the Government and the Minister, and I am glad that in return for comments and remarks, through sentences – if necessary, we will hold a session of the Assembly, I understand that we agree on the role of the institutions in the process. All and various topics that concern how many ideological or political disagreements, all and all the other topics that concern different solutions, which we have because we are in different parties, are, of course, legitimate and will be present, but I have asked about our future and our future position as a country in the context of the Ukrainian crisis, because there, not to cease the differences, but what we have learned is that we have a good difference to see through the debate on such an important issue, where ultimate support is involved, because we know what will happen in four, five or seven years. I do not believe that in this room you will have any misunderstanding with anyone if it is necessary to explain through the debate all the difficult steps ahead of Serbia in the way of European integration. Thank you. I'm not asking for an answer, nor will I use my right to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6486	The president wants to give you an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6487	Thank you. I have nothing to say to Mrs. Comic. You know, of course, that under the Constitution, the Serbian government is leading internal and foreign policy, but on such issues when it is very important to show a consensus where we, where the government gets a stronger position in talks with the world, should be more often used and fully agreed. Since I heard, and as you noticed, I was right, I am now told that Borko Stefanovic said that I did not answer for the plagiarism, and everything I proved and showed that they were telling lies doesn't really matter. Now, as far as plagiarism is concerned... Marko Atlagic, from the scene: He is not here. Well, of course he's not here. As for plagiarism, let me answer you, Mr. Zivkovic. I wasn't into plagiarists, and believe me, I know more about plagiarists and how some in your neighborhood became masters and in what way and in what time, how some became teachers and I don't think that's the most important issue for Serbia. The only thing I can guarantee you, because I've only read it, I can't tell you that Aca Shapic is a plagiarizer, I don't know, I haven't read anything, but I've read Nebojsa's work. Since I have listened to people from my own environment who have said this by saying that it is plagiarism etc., I must tell you that I claim that what Mr. Stefanovic did is not plagiarism. Is that some kind of genius? No, and the explanation that it's plagiarism, and in doing so, don't get angry, Mr. Zivkovic, I think I have a little more academic knowledge and calling than you do to claim something like that, and I haven't gotten a tenth of what you've mixed up in the whole story. In the end, the only thing I've done wrong and gone too far is say it's a very stupid explanation. That's hard words. Those are hard words that the prime minister shouldn't say, but I have to tell you that those words were true. In the end, I'm primarily interested in how much someone works, because I know a lot of honest people who don't have those schools, some people have high school, and I'd love to see them in high places in the country, because I know how hard they are, I know how educated they are, I know how much they can contribute and how much they can do. That's what I'm saying without any complexes, because I've finished all my schools with the highest grades. I can measure myself with most of you in the number of foreign languages I speak in everything else and I don't have any problem with it. The question is, is it someone, because plagiarism is a difficult work, a thief or not a thief? What I'm saying, therefore, I can't know, I haven't read, and I'm not going to say that it is something for Mr. Sapic, but what I read I can safely say that Mr. Stefanovic is not a thief and I guarantee it. Since you asked if I guarantee it, that's the thing I guarantee. Thank you for listening to us today. I expect you to question us every month at the end of every Thursday, and I expect those who threaten Twitter to finally show up in this room, if not for me, to at least come for citizens to see them here in this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6488	Thank you. Since it is now 19 hours and three minutes, we are finishing work in the session on parliamentary matters. I thank ministers and MPs for their participation. Minister Vujovic asked for a five-minute break, so we will proceed immediately to discuss the amendments, so that you do not give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 23 and 23 of the amendment. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Guests, I see that the number of MPs in this Chamber has failed, probably after this institution of parliamentary matters, but it certainly does not bother us to continue to discuss the amendments that Zoran Zivkovic and I, as MPs of the New Party in this Assembly, have submitted to the proposal for a law on privatisation. We have submitted an amendment to Article 23, and it is important to say that this article begins in fact a whole new chapter within this proposal of the privatisation law called – the privatisation methods, and the member himself – the method of public collecting offers with public competition. Here, I will read what it says in Article 23 so that the citizens of Serbia and the MPs may not have been able to read this text know what it is. It says here that the method of public collection of offers, with public bidding, is the privatisation method for the sale of capital and property of the privatisation entity. That's the first attitude. The second position, the method set out in Article 1, shall be carried out by submitting tenders and public tendering of participants in accordance with this law and the sales documentation. It is our opinion that this Article 23, which begins a new chapter of the draft law – the privatisation method, forms part of a whole set of members who do not bring any particular news when we talk about the content of this proposal for the privatisation law. Since our view was that the new law should not be adopted, we have suggested that this Article 23 be deleted in whole and in attitude 1 and in attitude 2 as was our proposal and for all other members, all 95 of this proposal of the Privatisation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6491	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6492	I'm sorry, I'm a little surrounded by colleagues. I must, since the tenacity of the two MPs who have tabled this amendment and have persistently explained all the 95 amendments of their amendments that are "expunge", as well as this amendment which my colleague has now spoken of, I must also say my opinion and the position of the parliamentary group of MPs who are members of the SNS that we will, of course, reject this amendment as everyone else, because they are only part of one unserious approach to work. They repeat on purpose that citizens, because at different times people work, at different times watch the transfer of the National Assembly, know what it is, Articles 161. The Rules of Procedure and 162 in which it is said, in Article 161, the amendment is a proposal to amend and supplement the Bill's proposal, and Article 162 says – an explanation which contains an explanation of the proposed solution and the objective which is to be achieved by adopting the amendment and, if necessary, an assessment of the impact of the proposed solution on the budget. So, both the goal and what the amendment is doing. If you submit 95 amendments, to 95 members with "expect", it means to every smart man that you are against that law, and for that you have a principled debate. If you have suggestions for individual solutions, then you submit amendments. This is pure obstruction, unserious mode of work. There's something that's nothing to take pictures of all day. Of course, we won't shut up. Of course it would look like those two MPs are opposition to this government. Although, when we see an O.R., that's how it works out. It's about the only opposition to this government, this congregation majority. But I have to say again, we heard a lot today. For example, if the law had arrived late in the procedure, there was no time to read, and there was time to write 95 amendments and now to discuss them all day, and as if there was no time to get to know the law. On the other hand, it is said that an argument is being made about the amendment, etc. So this is one flagrant example. I think we all need to talk about it. As long as something like this is happening, so that it will never happen to us again and that the citizens of Serbia will condemn it. As far as I've seen a reaction in the media, the citizens themselves who comment on it call it this way of working in the Assembly and this way of dealing with the amendments and this amendment with the ultimate insolence. It is 99% of the comments I have been able to see during the day on this set of amendments submitted by the New Party MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6493	The word has the People's MP Velibor Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6494	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I have given myself the right to speak my mind and address the chairman, in this discussion no one should be recognized. If a man does not have a better job, he makes 95 amendments for a dozen, fifteen or twenty minutes to obtain the right to abuse the Rules of Procedure to harass 248 MPs who need to listen to the arguments relating to each amendment and each amendment reads "is deleted". In order for the citizens of Vlasotina, from where they understand me, I repeat my opinion again and I can use an expression that is very often used in our country, and that term is called "snatching." I really couldn't say anything else about what's going on in this House today, if someone doesn't understand what "squawking" means, that's what, you know, he's here now, he's not, and always the epilogue of that "squawking" is that he gets that side that's next to matches and that moves them. Whoever has experience in that story, I really don't know, but I think it's gone beyond the scope of this kind of amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6495	Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6496	Dear Chairman, I think the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been violated, and here I have to bring this dictionary of Serbian language in order to have inaccuracies about interpreting certain terms here. You have failed to warn Mr Stojkovic now that he is insulting the dignity of the National Assembly because he has called it a regular regular work of the MPs, which implies the submission of amendments to the laws' proposals "snatching". The Honorable chairman, here in the Serbian language dictionary that published "Matica Srpska", writes "sibicari" to perform tricks with three boxes of matches, offering passersby, offering passersby to hit under which one of them is the ball, the respected peddler. So Mr. Stojkovic here announced that there are some passersby in the National Assembly who reveal for money where there is a ball, some ball. If this isn't an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, then I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6497	Mr. Pavicevic, he's kind of expressing that to himself, I can agree that we shouldn't use words that aren't appropriate. I ask the People's MPs, no matter how much you lie or don't lie, to be dissatisfied, I ask that we still honor Parliament. Whoever abuses or doesn't abuse, that's now to say, on the consciences of those people who do so, or who do. Anyway, I'm asking you to keep working. On behalf of members 24th and Article 24th of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law held that the amendment was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6498	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, and the Honorable Guests, we have proposed that both Article 24 and the term above Article 24 be deleted – sales documentation. This article shall consist of three positions and shall indicate within the first position what all works of the sales documentation in five points. It is then said in paragraph 2 that the privatisation documentation referred to in Article 1(2) of this Article, which means, in fact, that privatisation documentation is prepared by the privatisation entity and delivered to the Agency within 30 days of the date of the submission of the decision on the model and method of the privatisation entity. After that, we have another attitude that we also think needs to be deleted, so I have two things to say. One is a member of the 24th is part of a set of members for which we have estimated that their content repeats something that already exists. Based on that attitude, we have concluded that there was actually no need to adopt or propose a brand-new Privatisation Act. There were objections here, and now in the follow-up to our session, why they did it, when they came to read, if the law had arrived by emergency procedure and there was an urgent debate here, so we were working day and night. We've read the contents of this bill. During that time that we were left with, we were able to prepare all 95 amendments to all 95 members of the Privatisation Act. I have only one dilemma, or question, why would any national MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia mind other MPs read the texts of the law and submit amendments to those texts, if necessary for each member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6499	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I suggest that this proposed amendment be rejected to Article 24. Here's why I suggest. Therefore, in Article 24, which bears the title – sales documentation, it is contained which are elements which make up the sales documentation in the public procurement process with public competition. So, the confidentiality agreement, the privatisation documentation, the offerer's manual, etc., that I don't read everything in the list. Furthermore, it is defined that the privatisation subject prepares the privatisation documentation and introduces the obligation to deliver it to the Privatisation Agency within 30 days, therefore, from the date on which the Agency has submitted a decision on the model and the privatisation method. So, I can't accept the expropriation of this member and I urge you to refuse the amendment. One more thing, I call upon the motion of this amendment not to hold moral sermons here and not to transfer that responsibility to us for mocking us. The very fact that you have submitted more than 95 amendments, identical amendments with the same text and the same explanation, speaks of who actually in this Assembly is making fun of and playing with the amendments and the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6501	Wait a minute, what's your answer? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: The time of an independent MP. I just want to see if you have time. You've got three minutes from your time, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6502	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, I hope I can and thank the President, use the time I have the right. Never in any of your performances, Your Honor's chairman, please pass it on to Mr. Markovic, since we need to communicate with each other. I don't mind the MPs addressing each other directly, if there are no insults. I ask you, Mr Markovic, to tell you that during this debate today and otherwise, at no point in time for any MP from any MP's party, I have not said that he is mocking this National Assembly or working in the National Assembly. I have only intervened in the use of certain terms, whose meaning we have checked in the Serbian dictionary and which you have found to be a demeaning of the dignity of the National Assembly. On this side at no time, Mr. Markovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6503	The word is made by MP Dragan Shormaz, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6504	As for the previous amendments, it should be rejected, it is the MPs on their own, from the New Party, which after that will not, when these amendments are discussed and deleted and everything and they will be deleted, I repeat, like all others who have dealt in this way. And I'm still saying, this is a very unserious approach, for free of anything anyone here says and tries to justify, if 95 times he writes, it's erased, with the same explanation. Then he says he's put forth effort and work, and we all know that in modern technology it takes half an hour, "he digs up -- a half-past," effort and work is made, such serious work, that I can't believe it. Incredibly, it's an honor to give them a well-favoured job internship, I don't know if it's possible by law, by the MPs to give 20 percent for this serious work, on the salary of what was really, 95 times - is deleted, with the same explanation. That's unserious. You don't have to waste any more time on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6505	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please, you are in a position to challenge the replica. Let's figure out the situation where we're both in these 90s and how many amendments there are already, we have to cross over. Please, let's move on. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law held that the amendment was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6506	Thank you, Chairman. This is Article 25, which defines the criteria for participation in public gathering offers with public competition. Of course, it was also in the contents of the previous law, or still applicable laws, and that is why we are asking that this member be deleted too. I think it would be good to remind the MPs, but first of all, Serbian citizens, who may be watching this transmission, since we had one series in the meantime, sometimes cartoons and "Good night children" went back to serious topics at this time. Our idea with amendments is to point out that it was unnecessary to write a new law, that it is unnecessary to present itself as a reform law, when the potential of the old law, along with some adequate changes that we have indicated could serve the purpose and end privatisation, realistically, 300 companies that are not privatised and may have some chance of finding their buyer. I think that there is a hysterical relationship with us as proponents, which offends us here, just before and the Prime Minister, now MPs, it's completely understandable to me, it's the result of fear. It is the primal fear of the unknown, of reading, of writing, of understanding the essence of parliamentaryism, and that is, many professional authors have already processed it so that it does not surprise us, you cannot offend us, because in order to be able to offend, Mr Pavicevic or me, you have to do a lot of work on yourself, on who you are, who you are, and where you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6507	Mr. Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6508	Replica, Mr. Chairman. I don't know how long it's been true and answering questions of insult. Since when is truth and telling the truth and answering the question of oppression. If you thought you'd be asking some questions forever, that you wouldn't get answers, that you'd be building a political platform on it, so you were wrong. The Prime Minister and the rest of parliament respected parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, answered all questions, came out with the truth. That the truth doesn't suit you, that the truth offends you, you know how much I care about it. It is important that it is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is important that what the government is doing is in the interest of employees of people in Serbia, of all people in Serbia. It is important that it is also in the interests of the Serbian citizens, and whether it suits you today, you have made certain things open to the amendments that do not correspond to anyone other than you and your political platform to delete everything in this country, and even this amendment that says you would delete the criteria for participation in public gathering offers with public competition, and the conditions and obligations of the buyer, investment, social programme, continuity of business, etc. What do you want? What does the Proposer of this amendment want? That there's no social response, no social responsibility, no investment, nothing, so don't let us hide behind some anger when these amendments are criticised. Let's talk about the essence. With this amendment, the amendment promoter wants all future investors to have no obligation to employees. In paragraph 1, the social programme is deleted, so investments are deleted, business continuity is deleted, so why do we need investors who won't have the continuity of business. That's the essence of this amendment and you're asking for that kind of support. Of course you won't have it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6509	Thank you. The word is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6510	I don't know why the predecessor got the line, but it doesn't matter. I don't mind. Let me just warn you that he's been reading something now that has nothing to do with article 25, which is now on the agenda. Just a little attention would be important because we would speed up the work by detail and end up within a reasonable time. That's our goal. We have no intention of harassing anyone. Of course, if, as far as I understand it, this replica was referred to what the party president had just said, whose previous speaker was a member, and he said he understood everything he had been told, because we got all the answers. I congratulate him on that knowledge, but of course, anyone who's thinking sensefully knows that we haven't received a single answer, that the contracts with Etyhad and everyone else are still a secret, that we have no idea what happened to that policy, that they're not privatized banks, as promised. I didn't even get an answer, that potent answer on the plagiarism issue. We received an answer that the Prime Minister guarantees that the interior minister has not plagiarized his doctorate. My question was – can he guarantee that no member of the government did it? I didn't get that answer either, but I understand, when someone's in power, I remember that time, even though it was a long time ago, then, along with all the other obligations you have, you know and that the closer way to leaving power than the rest of that position, as far as our future is concerned, that some MPs who have made us pink, blue and gray were saying that we don't have a future and that we'll be wiped out, that's what I listened to in the '90s and early 2000s, and I have that in my collection as much as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6511	Replica, Zoran Babic, and we end up with replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6512	I'm not going to give any flat-rates or threats, but I'm not afraid of any threats. I've been in opposition, here I am now in favour, a MP who supports the government. It's no big deal when you're doing a responsible job, there's no fatal transition to one side or the other. As for the answer to the question, you know, when someone puts plugs in their ears, of course they won't hear anything. Definitely there were people sitting here who were or were going out into the hallway and they didn't want to hear the answers, but what they said about Ethyhad, about "Er Serbia", I'll repeat and repeat that no matter how much you didn't like to hear, nine Air Basses A319, A320, at 26 years old, the average age of the plane in Er Serbia is now nine and a half years old, and I can see that it doesn't suit you and it's very bad because it's happening in Serbia. It's bad because it happens during the government of Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, but it's good for Serbia. Ten new A320 Air Bass aircraft were ordered, the number of passengers increased by 70%, no problem, let it bother you, let it be bad for you, you won't sleep tonight, no problem, but the citizens of Serbia will sleep peacefully. I follow every amendment well, I follow every member of the law well, and I'll read the first point of view. I am sorry that the amendment promoter did not read, and he submitted such amendments, which say - Article 25, which is proposed "wipe", writes - criteria for participation in public gathering offers with public competition, conditions of sale, as well as obligations of the buyer, investment, social programme, continuity of business determines the agency. This means that the people who have submitted this amendment are not responding either to the social programme, to investments, or to the continuity of production. What more will that amendment refuse?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6513	Thank you. On behalf of members 26 and 26, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6514	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Minister, the Honorable Guests, has been asked here, and I will, of course, offer an argument for our amendment to Article 26 concerning a public call, and this article of the 26th draft law has come into three positions. In point 1, says, and I think it is good to remind ourselves here – the Agency prepares and publishes a public call for the sale of capital or property of a privatisation entity. In the second position, it says – the public call contains data of importance for the conduct of the procedure. In point 3 of this Article, the public call referred to in Article 1 shall be published at least in a daily high-risk list distributed throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia and on the Agency's website no later than 30 days before the date specified for the submission of applications. Two things are important to us for this article and for the amendment to Article 26. One is there's no news here either. So that's where we go back to the same line of our argument, a lot of things are repeated to prepare a new proposal for a privatisation law. There was no need for that. But now there's another thing that's important about this. Look, we promised, when we read this proposal of the privatisation law, that we'd fight here today so it doesn't pass. And now, gentlemen, we're just trying to keep that word. Well, I guess that's desirable here, huh? There is one more thing that is going through the debate here, first of all, of the ruling majority MPs, the respected chairman, and that is that they stand up and say, "Here, they advocate erasing and attitude one that means that and that." The citizens of Serbia should know, including the MPs, that when we say that one position, or the whole member, is deleted, it does not mean that there is nothing, it just means that we want to get us back to the content of the already existing law, which mainly contains what is here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6515	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6516	Now, here's the messenger who put on the gray, blue and pink, as I heard earlier, pink. They're soft colors, my colleagues say they're great and they fit in and it suits me a lot better and it means than someone who only knows brown coat color to recognize or when he works in a vineyard and only knows those colors. Then they write a amendment like this and they say, delete, we want to go back to the old law. What old law to get us back to? So we're discussing the bill the government delivered. What old law? He's valid. If we adopt him, this one goes for it. And in this way, the work of the congregation continues to be unthinked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6517	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The government and the Chamber of Commerce, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6518	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my fellow Members and I from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – The New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green, have submitted amendments to this law and to all the laws that are in the process these days, in order to correct the text in accordance with our understandings and our visions. It is true that the law is released in an emergency procedure and that we believe that it is incorrect, that 24 hours is not enough to study the law in detail and to give good opinions and good solutions, perhaps better than the proposed ones, but perhaps we would have had more proposals and more amendments if we had a little more time. For this time that has been available, we have submitted amendments and I see that the government has had a lot of hearing and I can say that it is my pleasure that of the four amendments three amendments have been accepted, which means that they have been really established. I want to explain this amendment now that we have submitted, so that it is clear to the citizens why it has been accepted. We are aware whether we support this law or not, whether we vote for it or not, the ruling majority has enough MPs and they will adopt it anyway and it will apply and will concern all citizens of Serbia. Since we care about all these citizens, we have to take care of and influence the quality of the law, whether we accept them as a whole or not. As for this amendment to Article 26, this member regulates a public call. We have put the amendment to paragraph 2 and suggested that it should change and that it should read differently, because the proposal for the text of the law reads: "The public call contains information of importance for the implementation of the procedure". We have suggested that this position reads: "The public call contains the business name of the privatisation entity, data on the structure and value of the capital and the assets, the initial price for the sale of capital, i.e. assets, the deadline for submission of applications for participation, as well as other details of the denomination for the implementation of the procedure". In addition to this amendment, we have also given an explanation that we want to supplement and specify what data must contain a public call, since it is an initial act that must contain mandatory elements. At the same time, more transparency is achieved in the privatisation process, and privatisation procedures are also evenly balanced, no matter what the privatisation entity is concerned. At the same time, we point out that the Anti-Corruption Agency has also made a recommendation in its opinion on the risk assessment that the law should specify and edit the elements of a public call. We have agreed with this opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency, because we believe that this whole position 2 must be precise, as well as this whole law and fully agreed, that they must not allow arbitraryness and improvisation due to the indetermination of certain laws, which could lead to worse consequences in the process itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6519	On behalf of the 27th and 27th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6520	Thank you. Article 27 which defines the conditions for the price of the sales documentation. Of course it was in the existing law, and I think this is more matter for some sublegal act, not for the law. That now that the minister is competent to determine the price of sales documentation a little mine works for the law, but well, maybe that's where I'm wrong. Maybe the promoter wanted to make it clear exactly in the law and that detail. Generally, of course it's part of the usual procedure and that someone needs to set the price and that someone who wants to access public procurement offers with a public tender has to buy out the documentation. It's a completely natural thing. I think she's lost track of some colleagues. So, asking us to delete all members of this law does not mean that Serbia will be left without the Privatisation Act. It's a law that already exists, which was passed in 2001, which has been changed several times, which was attacked by both the short and the tail, but no one has changed it yet, and now we think it's done in one wrong way at a bad time, or when you've already got no one to apply that new law. To point out once again that danger, as also confirmed by Deputy Prime Minister Udovici, that there is in this law and the danger of being a generator of corruption, above all in this part of the strategic partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6521	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 28th and 28th of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6522	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Vujovic, the honored guest, has a title of Article 28 - a commission to conduct a public gathering process with public competition. This member has six views and now it's a lot to read every attitude, because then time will go on reading, but I'll just try two things... Well, if MPs insist, I can read it. Here, it says this - public procurement offers with public competition are conducted by a commission to conduct a public procurement process, in the following text: a commission, which is educated by the agency. The Commission has three members and is a representative of the Agency, a representative of the employees of the privatisation entity and a representative of the Ministry of Business Affairs. For a member of the commission can be appointed a person who meets the following conditions, two are conditions: five years of work experience in business or privatisation and two, high professional equipment. Then we have an additional clarification of these things in three positions, but these are mostly technical things. I think two things here are very important to us when we talk about article 28 and our amendment to this article. Deleting this member is part of our effort, and there is no dilemma here anymore. Mr. Kovacevic, he's not here right now, but I think he's accepted it earlier when we talked before this break we made, that this law should be brought down in this National Assembly, and we want to try to make it happen here. There's another thing that matters to me and I don't understand it. I hear here, for example. The invitation to cut it down a little bit, so not every amendment has to. This morning it was – withdraw the amendments to the members of this bill. Gentlemen, I think we should do more than we do. We didn't have a session of the Serbian Parliament last week. Why didn't we have a session of the Serbian Parliament last week?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6523	Time, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6524	So we weren't working. Here's a hint of a pronounced... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6525	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6526	I just have to express great satisfaction because someone has advocated eradicating this article, because it has shown essentially that he loves secular activities and loves the world most of the direct contract and does not like any public competition. Well done for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6527	On what grounds? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I would like to explain. You don't have any more time. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6528	Thank you. A member of whom has a rubrum, a commission to conduct a public procurement process with public competition, and it sets out the procedure for drawing up a commission that makes public procurement bids and who can be a member of that commission. The member says that the commission has three members and that it consists of a representative of the agency, a representative of the employees of the privatisation entity and a representative of the ministry responsible for the aftermath of the economy, which can make sense, there are different solutions, there is one with a three-member commission. Our amendment, colleagues Borislav Stefanovic and myself, refers to the view that a member of the commission can be appointed a person who meets the following conditions, so he says - five years of work experience in business or privatisation and high professional training. Our amendment demanded that the word “five ” be replaced by“ ten ” for many good reasons. The amendment was rejected with an explanation given by the government, otherwise, for amendments, I read the government's explanation because it is useful, hoping that the government would understand that it should start writing serious arguments. Please, Chairman, either let us know who is attending the session of the Assembly, or start taking care of the agenda. If it's a People's Messenger, I don't mind, on the contrary. I hope he is an MP, I'm glad, but I'd just like to ask that every MP be allowed to be heard by the minister. So we want that to be 10 for a lot of good reasons. The government refused that amendment. I hope there will be no regrets in the government over the rejection of the amendments, because this amendment of mine is directly related to Article 80, which speaks of anything that fails by any method of privatisation being declared bankruptcy. Don't think there'll be more bankruptcy than there should be. I had amendments to one amendment to the bankruptcy bill. I am not an opponent of bankruptcy, as I am fully aware that some government, this government or any government must solve the company's restructuring problem, the 100,000 employees who are on the budget. So I have no intention of making the process much harder to fall to people living in Serbia, those 100,000 families to whom this law applies. I want success in every privatisation, because I know what's going to make the bankruptcy. That's why I think, let's find three people with 10 years of work experience. Don't get a grudge that you've put, however much you support, young people, 27-year-olds or 30-year-olds, with untested experience of solving the fates of 100,000 families by this law. That was my request. I'm not asking for an answer, but I want us to understand why I'm putting up with the amendment. Ten years of experience is necessary for this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6529	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6530	For five years, we put in the third position of Article 28 on the Council's suggestion to fight corruption. They didn't specify the number of years, they just said it would be good to introduce the number of years, as a criterion. For five years, we have chosen, not with an excessively hard argument, but with an argument that this is the number of years required for professional positions. Since this is not a leading position, which is usually required for 10 years, we thought five years would be enough. Of course, more years are better, but we thought it might be the subject of criticism and discriminatory against people who might otherwise be potential members of this committee. That was our argument. We're not saying it's significant, but we think 10 years would be too discriminatory. That's all I have to say on this subject. If there is a mood for other MPs to put on for 10 years, they accept themselves that it is a criterion set for managing positions, we are not against, but we do not want to discriminate against a large number of professional people. We're looking for a high-level expert.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6531	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 29 and 29 of the amendment. The government and the committee responsible did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6532	Thank you very much. Article 29 deals with the initial price and the way it is defined in the first and second rounds of public competition attempts. This exists in the current text of the current law. For the same reasons, which were the basis for previous amendments, that is how I explain this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6533	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6534	Here, Your Honor, I would like to express my great satisfaction because someone is proposing that this member be deleted. He again showed that he was not interested in selling the company at some normal price. They used to do it on the bright side, and they did it on the bright side, as it occurred to them. That's why this is the best indication that they're not interested in any state interest, that some company should privatise itself. Minister, I'm asking you, I think the citizens of Serbia are obliged to know what happens if neither of these prices fail to be sold. What happens at the end? Is the privatisation process going on or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6535	Mr. Zivkovic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6536	The comment of a distinguished fellow MP is very interesting and is the consequence of an encyclopaedic ignorance. That's why I have to remind you of the time you're talking to me about that year, that almost 1,000 companies were privatized, that a good part of it went through international tenders, that most of the rest went through public auctions, that that's when income was achieved over two billion dollars, that then the number of public administration employees was 504,000, and not 800,000 as much as it is today, that at that time the value of the tender was 61 dinar, not what we have today, that bureaucracy in Serbia was then numbering only 27,000 people, and today there are 72,000, so about the time I was dealing with politics...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6537	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6538	Let me just...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6539	They said you used a minute and now magically another minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6540	No, I didn't hear for a minute. Let me just finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6541	So anyone can say, "Let me finish."
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6542	If you want to take my word for it, go ahead. Just tell me if I can continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6543	It's already a cliché like you're not giving me your word. Here you go, but next time, no. It's the first time I've heard of a time-share like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6544	Thank you. Therefore, it was, I repeat, a golden time of reform and privatisation in Serbia, and in that time we can all regret because it has passed and because unfortunately it will never return, and the reaction of beautiful creatures has always been inspiring...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6545	Thank you. Now you've wasted your time. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Replica. You don't have the right to a replica. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 30 and 30 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I moved on, the chairman runs the session. I would ask you, as we don't speak in the O.R., so let the President and the President of Parliament lead the sessions and no one else, according to the Rules of Procedure. The word has Vladimir Pavicevic, two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6546	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Guests, we have submitted an amendment to Article 30. A proposal for a law on privatisation which, just to remind myself here, is within the framework of the third chapter of our bill, i.e. the Government's bill of law, which is chapter – Methods and privatisation. Article 30 spells five views, and these are the following positions, he says – submitting applications for participation. An application for participation shall be submitted to the Agency, within the time limit set in a public call, which may not be shorter than 30 days or longer than 90 days from the date of publication of the public call. If this were some first proposal of the privatisation law we are talking about in Serbia, we would not have any objection to this position, nor to the second, nor to the third, nor to the fourth, nor to the fifth. I just have to remind the MPs who are actively taking part in our amendment debate on the Privatisation Law proposal, that it is not a key issue here, why this number of amendments, and also an amendment to Article 30, but it is a question – why the urgent procedure for this bill, when, for example, an hour ago here, the president of the strongest political party in this Parliament and the Prime Minister spoke of certain laws marked by reform, which did not enter the procedure into this National Assembly, that it is not so important whether they will come to the Assembly in June, July or August. Gentlemen, if that's not so important, then why were we quick with this bill of law that's really very important, and from today we have confirmation that we should have discussed it differently here. So we propose to delete Article 30, as was the case with all 29 members of the Privatisation Law proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6547	By amendment Vladimir Djukanovic. He's wasting his time with the MPs' group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6548	I didn't answer the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6549	I have you registered in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6550	I just got back to you, but you didn't give me a word for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6551	There's nothing to give or not give, Article 104 says everything very defined. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 31 and 31 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6552	Article 31 defines a way of public competition when conditions are met for it and when a contract can be made without public competition. It was also contained in the existing Law and for the same reason we ask that this article be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6553	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 32 and 32 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6554	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed presidents of the National Assembly, the respected ministers, the honored guests, some confusion occurred in this room, as if the need for a thorough discussion of the amendments to the Privatisation Bill had now disappeared. We have submitted an amendment to Article 32 relating to the loss of customer and other rights. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to explain our amendment to Article 32 and help only one very important thing. In light of the government's proposal on the Law on Privatisation, it says that a responsible economic policy is now being conducted in Serbia. We were here today to say why we believe that there are many reasons not to believe that it is, or that it is not. I'd like to remind you of another one, and from time to time, someone from the government shows up in the Assembly who prepares us to be in front of bankruptcy again, and a few months ago, it was the same story that we're in front of bankruptcy. I can't imagine that in the government's explanation, and here for this article, 32 says that responsible economic policy is being conducted and that we are constantly ahead of some bankruptcy. Today, too, we have heard that we may have to devote a special session to this and discuss how to get out of the economic problems that we are in. So I'm not satisfied with that explanation. So much for the amendment to Article 32.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6555	The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6556	Thank you, President. It's this particular article 32. The Privatisation Act aims to point out all the seriousness of the activities undertaken under this law and to deter potential customers who are not actually customers. The obligation to pay the fee guarantees the seriousness of potential customers, and the loss of customer properties is a sanction for giving up the purchase process. Otherwise, such behaviour in collecting offers and public sales has existed since the world and the century, so that the vague motives of the amendment's proposing that this member of the law be deleted without the amendment's proposings offering any reasonable solution that would be an alternative to the existing one.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6557	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6558	Of course, I cannot agree with an explanation that is not a reason to delete Article 32 because this entire Corps of Members from 32 to 50 and of a member implies, in fact, a clear determination and definition of the control mechanisms of sales, starting from the acquisition of customer status to the sale of capital and shares. If this is how control mechanisms that have not been established so far, then there is absolutely no single reason to delete any of these members, because erasing those members devalues everything that implies improving the quality of the law compared to the law that was passed in 2001. Not only did her colleague Mrdakovic say that this is how they are sanctioned, but they are being prevented and abused. I'm going to name just one ecldent example of abuse and I'm going to ask you, Mr. Minister, since I'm now using the time of my authorised representative, Madam President, one example, and by the way, by the way, how do we get out of this problem, I hope you'll give me an answer, which is an example of FAP company in Priboj. What's this about? The FAP company in Priboj is in a long-standing restructuring process. Given that it is a decades-long restructuring process, the inability to establish sales control mechanisms has come to the point that the same company FAP leads to the economic death of at least a hundred creditors of the same company. What does that mean? Far-reaching and incomprehensible consequences per country, a huge number of unemployed, businesses go bankrupt, there is no possibility of the state filling the budget with the payment of the PIO contribution, many state-owned creditors remain deprived of their claims, even judicial authorities that can't charge taxes. So the state suffers a huge hole. We have finally reached the goal in which we say – the restructuring is being completed until then and then, we have achieved the deadline of those amendments of Article 20g and ended this so-called so-called. Restructure cross-section. There is a question that I asked, and when I spoke as an introductor about the principle of this law. Mr. Minister, what about the employees? The staff of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Cassation Court shall have the right to continue the enforcement proceedings against the privatisation entities in the restructuring process. Do these provisions, which are quality provisions of the law, retain the same right? Do they still have the status of privileged executives, as we seem to leave a case-law solution to this problem that we will trigger the possibility of unequal case-law of different interpretations? In any case, what involves respect for decisions, the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Court of Justice's rulings as an instructive opinion of that court, implies a commitment to the courts. How will the ministry be determined in this regard and whether it will solve it in a sublegal act or also have some instructive interpretation of the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6559	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 33 and 33 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6560	Thank you. Article 33 defines the methods of collecting offers and, among other things, we have another additional problem, which is the formulation that the public call in Article 1 of this article is published in at least one daily high-tiring list distributed throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the text continues to go. My question is on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia according to the Constitution or in the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia under the Brussels Agreement? If it is under the Constitution then it is necessary to ensure the distribution of the high-pitched list in Prizren, Peća, Urosevec and other places in Pristina, and then it will not be possible or this way accepts the Brussels Agreement as an act that is older than the Serbian Constitution's preamble. Of course it does, those other universal reasons that were related to all previous members and I congratulate us all that we passed one third of the debate in particular under this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6561	The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6562	Here I am also going to express my great satisfaction that someone has requested that this article be deleted, because it shows that it is against the method of public gathering of offers. Someone's used to the system -- me and you and the contracts, that's how he sells businesses his whole life, so maybe that's how he sold Beopetrol in Hungary, for example. I would really ask that the citizens of Serbia know what is required to be deleted here, because there is a requirement to erase transparency, and someone has been selling all three cements at a lower price than the government of Mirko Marjanovica has agreed on for one cementary. The privatisation was so successful that they defiled the entire state, and here I have listed the Beopetrola system, when someone in Hungary receives a nice one purse and then sells the company without a solution, and that's why we have a big problem today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6563	Ambassador Zivkovic, you're nowhere, you're not from Hungary. I know everyone needs a little time. You don't, I'd give you time to know that I'm extremely tolerant and extremely flexible. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the 35th and the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6564	It's your fault that you've moved on to Article 35, and we haven't passed Article 34, so we're asking you to go back and move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6565	We will, we'll finish this one, we'll go back to that amendment. They're all the same, similar, and it happens. Article 34, please, I've been through this. Named above Article 34 and Article 34, passed, read. Please check the service again, we'll be back if necessary. I know exactly what I did. So you don't want a name above the 35th and the 35th? Okay, thanks. We're still in session. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above the 36th and the 36th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6566	Thank you very much. It's not nice for you to skip our list, but well, what do we do, it's part of the parliamentary majority system. Subject matter and definition of the subject matter of sale Article 36. This was, of course, contained in the existing law, and of course there is no reason to change or significantly affect the conditions of privatisation. I told you that, ask your coalition partners, they've been messing with the case again, and I don't know what it is. As far as I'm concerned, I haven't sold a single firm and watch what you're saying about companies bought by some people who are callin' themselves tycoons, because you might have to vote for them tomorrow as the new directors of Railways, the EPS, and I don't know what. Here's the news that there's going to be a proposal from the prime minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6567	Is this about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6568	... Yes, Mr. Miskovic is the Director of the Development Fund so watch your language.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6569	You should have said that while the prime minister was in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6570	You didn't give me the time, although I interrupted it once, but there you are, these guys, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6571	You should have said that. He's not here right now. You can now that I'm the chairman. It's not right, I'm still a woman. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6572	I agree that someone should have been brave when there was a prime minister, but what to do. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, I ask the citizens of Serbia, you have on the internet a complete bill, looking for someone to delete the definition of what is the subject of the sale, and thus shows all the nonsense of its amendments. You know, when someone praises the privatisations that so many people have left on the street, everything is really clear to you and it is clear to the citizens of Serbia today why someone doesn't want the privatisations in this country to finally be transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6573	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. You've got a little more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6574	The time of the parliamentary group. So, I would ask the minister for work, and the minister will soon see that it is better for him when I attack him than when he defends him like this, to choose carefully when we talk about the consequences of this law, because the problem of good application of this law will be a common problem if we have a responsibility to the 100,000 people who, by applying this law, will have to lose their pay. So, when you persist in discussions with us, which we have criticism of laws and proposals, that we really care about talking about this law on privatisation, about this bill, because it has one goal that, together with the Labour Act, the Law on Banks, amendments and additions to the Law on Banks, and we will see whether there will be an amendment and an addition to the Law on the Agency for Privatisation, if it cannot be in place with these amendments to do all the jobs, the application of this law, armed, should be ended by not having companies in restructuring or having them privatised, that for those who cannot be subject to bankruptcy, which means that people will be left without a job. The desire to hide it is simply not possible, but the will to share it through dialogue arguments and to find ways to support people and ministers who have a plan for the final application of this law will mean a lot to our shared responsible relationship with a very serious subject. It is everyone's will that he will continue to talk about this law not leaving people without a job, but this law, if effectively implemented, will deny all of us here in three months, six months, one year, with full awareness that we are doing it because of the problems that businesses in restructuring, failed privatisation and previous decisions and governments, both these governments and those before it, and those before 2012, have when it comes to restructuring businesses. The restructuring was due to be completed within a year and a half after the first decision, so pressure took place to extend the deadline. So the second decision was to end, so there was pressure to extend it, so in this assembly we extended the deadline. No, I can only ask you that, anyone who chooses to explain the way we sit here, that we want to blame someone for any ex-release, to blind us into being fired here. Our task is to agree together when and how to hire them, but this difficult process must first be completed by applying this Privatisation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6575	The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6576	Thank you, President. We in the SPS parliamentary group only after these comments can we be completely proud to have been against the Privatisation Act in 2001, which generated and determined all these problems we are facing today and which, ultimately, is why we are bringing this law. The reminders are due, since some are obviously now in the amnesia phase, as early as 2008, the total social capital of the privatisation entities was to be sold. Why not? Who was at the head of the Privatisation Agency then, and who then made up the coalition government? It is a question that should be asked to those who make such comments. In addition, the deadline for the completion of the restructuring process is to be extended from 2006 to 2012. I have personally pointed out to Mr Dinkic here several times that it is devastating that the restructuring process is being extended all the time, thus creating adverse consequences. This government has finally defined the deadline for restructuring procedures, which I find justified. Secondly, what I also find important is to point out what other models are to end the restructuring process, except for the recovery of privatisation entities in restructuring, means returning to economic life. That's one model. The second model is - if the restructuring process cannot be implemented, it is inevitable to open a bankruptcy procedure. Which is why now indifference and I don't know who's hiding that a large number of employees will be left out of work in bankruptcy proceedings, but the question is, how long has it been since been out of work for those who have been restructured, who have been led in this way, left in the streets? That's the first question. The second question – why was there no concern about those unemployed who were employed by creditors of privatisation entities in restructuring, who because of the inability to collect their claims from FAP, from Magnochroma, from many others, could not survive, but were taken to an economic death? Now the mentality in that direction doesn't lead to anything. I'm asking the minister again, if he can, to answer the question I asked first and foremost for the sake of the courts. As a man who comes from the justice system, I do this job, and that I must argue that these issues which are burning, which burden the courts, which bind their hands to the judges, are resolved, that people are not brought into the situation to be neither guilty nor obliged to be advertised to the guilty for unequal case-law, to not implement decisions, to make decisions, to not act in accordance with the principle of trial within a reasonable period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6577	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6578	The time of the parliamentary group. Dear Chairman, we're talking about article 36. – the subject matter of sale refers to the sale of capital. This article defines practically the social capital that we need to finish with. That is the essence and purpose of this law. So where are these European integrations now? Now where is this declaration that we all shared here in parliament less than a year ago made a decision and made a commitment to have to end up with social capital? The second part of the story is that many people will lose their jobs, so long ago they've lost their jobs, but the pay they receive is not pay, but compensation. Why not say that 17,000 private-owned small enterprises did not even open a bankruptcy procedure that was destroyed precisely because of the privatisations they had? Why don't you tell them that you've opened up the possibility of opening a bankruptcy procedure now? Why not say that two billion euros is the capital of private-owned enterprises? Well, that's the result of all these privatisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6579	Thank you. We're correcting a mistake. I apologize to the MPs who submitted the amendments, we checked, but I have to read about the stenogram. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. That's page 43 from the synopsis I missed, really. Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 37 and 37 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6580	Thank you. The amendment of counterparts Borislav Stefanovic and mine refers to Article 37(4). It does not fundamentally alter the idea of a member whose contract on the sale of capital relates to the exceptions to the sale of capital and the proposed text of the law states: "Excludingly from the position of the 3rd member, which says that when a member is talking about a contract on the sale of a contractual obligation for a period of two years, exclusively from that two years, because of the importance of maintaining its activity, on a proposal from the restoring ministry in whose jurisdiction the activity of the entity is privatised, the period of contractual obligations can be determined by a contract on the sale of capital for a period of three years. “ If it’s a two - year rule, then it seems to us and perhaps we need to clarify the benefits of just one year. Since I assume it's either the Ministry of Agriculture, environmental protection or services and trade, I don't know if any of the ministries will eventually have the privatisation of that kind. So, it's been two years, and this article says three, and our proposal is to make it five, not with a desire to really be five, but that if we make an exception to the rule that it's a two-year contract, then it's a real argument, to explain why an extension of those two years is, and then it's an obligation to do it on that long term, because then it means awareness of the responsibility that can be done in those additional three years. I don't know what kind of privatization subject that's been enough for the last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6581	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 38 and 38 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6582	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, respected ministers, honored guests, I think it is important that we focus our attention, perhaps despite the tiredness of our amendments on the members of the Privatisation Bill, in this case on Article 38 concerning the settlement of the contract on the sale of capital. Once again, I would just like to remind myself that the government, explaining this bill, has also called for certain terms here, stability and accountability in the economy. I have to add one thing now. Today we heard here, as part of the Parliament Affairs Institute, that the Prime Minister said he was going to show the money as spent without actually spending that money. Gentlemen, what does that mean? Where can that happen? That certainly can't be done if it's true to reflect, to say some responsibilities in the conduct of economic policy. Therefore, I believe that everything we talked about today, not only in the context of the amendment debate, but also in the framework of the MPs' institutions where Zoran Zivkovic was active, is actually telling us that this is not about reform laws, but also about clean marketing, and we are against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6583	You should have asked the Prime Minister all of that. The word is Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6584	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens, when it comes to this amendment, of course, from the promoters who have submitted the same amendment for all members of the Privatisation Bill, of course, that we will not accept it. I would remind the promoters that they on the one hand claim that they did not participate in the privatisations that led this country to this state and definitely up to several hundred thousand job layoffs. At the same time, by defending the law by which these people have lost their jobs and by which all these catastrophic privatisations have been done, they simply cancel themselves, but it doesn't bother them to submit 95 amendments with one word, which definitely makes no sense, because everything in life, both in politics and in the family, and in society, it has to make sense, and this really doesn't make sense. At the same time, given that the bill for the collection of precisely these controversial privatisations, and there are, they do not know the number, unfortunately that bill for relatives, brotherly and tycoon privatisation came at the expense of citizens who are neither guilty nor obliged to lose their business, lost their jobs, lost their wages and without basic living conditions. It just doesn't make sense. What's very important is how they behave tonight and how they've been acting all day, it's just going to be a citizen's assessment. However we look at all these amendments, this Privatisation Act is the last chance to end a very painful and long process. Indeed, any extension of deadlines and any delay simply deepens the problem. And again, this is a reform law that was written, and there have been changes to everything that could have been fixed. At this point, the best possible and therefore will create conditions to try, to give back hope that these people who are currently being guided only on some lists, in some companies that no one knows what they are called, or who they own, or who they are or whether they are receiving them, are, of course, non-verified books, self-sufficient contributions, or contributions to them. This is a way to once put an end to it, draw a line and know where we are. They repeat once again, everyone is responsible for what they are doing, and therefore, given that they are located in this Assembly, that they have crossed the censorship, they are in the group, but given that through the privatisation process they are going to implement and those that have been done, when citizens see what and how they have been done, I think they will not be very easily in that group together for the censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6585	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6586	Thank you, Madam President. My colleagues and I have submitted an amendment to Article 38(2), which is that position in the draft text of the law – the recipient can be the person who meets the prescribed requirements for the buyer of capital. We proposed the amendment to add the word "only" after the word "can be". So it says – The receiver can be the only person who meets the prescribed requirements for the buyer of capital. The provision of the bill that a recipient may be a person who fulfils the conditions for the buyer of capital or property leaves room for different interpretations, i.e. it can be understood that the receiver may also be a person who does not meet the prescribed conditions for the buyer of capital or property, and the proposed amendment removes such a possible misunderstanding and the possibility of different interpretation. I have to express my satisfaction that the government has realized this time the importance of our amendment and that it has accepted it, because truly arbitrary interpretation can be, which means it doesn't have to be, it would open up the possibility of different interpretations for possible machinations and create doubts about corrupt actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6587	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 39 and 39 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6588	This article defines the method of broadcasting and keeping and monitoring the register of economic operators and registers for deposit and securities of value, i.e. its own action as a way of increasing capital. Of course, the same reasons we're asking him to delete. I'd like to get an answer from the minister, by his assessment that doesn't have to be completely accurate, there can be a 20-30% deviation, to what number of unprivatised economic operators can this action system be applied to? What percentage?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6589	Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade and Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On behalf of members of the 40th and member of the 40th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade and Tourism and Energy did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6590	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers and dear guests, we have submitted an amendment to Article 40, which is a very important member within this chapter of the law, which concerns the conditions for the closure of the contract on the sale of capital. We now have a few things that are listed and therefore, if the contractual obligations are not carried out, the contract on the sale of capital can be terminated. For example, the non-payment of the contracted price in accordance with the sales contract, the availability of the assets of the privatisation entity is contrary to the provisions of the contract, etc. etc. So either way, I think we can agree, there's no special novelty, but we have three additions here. First of all, I ask you, Mr. Secretary, that when we ask a question, you try to answer that question. For now, we have two irresponsible ones in relation to advertising in high circulation papers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and now in relation to Article 39, which Mr Zivkovic asked. The second thing, I don't see what's wrong with some MPs when they say that all the 25 amendments we've submitted have the same content. Let's suppose, gentlemen, that this bill is really not a good bill and that we have no other mechanism to bring down this bill except for this mechanism. I'm sorry, why would it be considered a bad way to make an observation that it's a big problem? I don't see that it's some terrible problem, especially that it's pointless. What does that mean, pointless? It says, which is contrary to common sense. Gentlemen, this is also an offensive message that is being sent to opposition MPs today as part of the amendment debate on the Privatisation Law proposal. It's not polite behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6591	You have to report to the system, I can't give a word to Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6592	I'd take the opportunity to answer a few questions that I didn't manage to answer before and say it briefly. Question...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6593	You can only by amendment, two minutes, by this amendment, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6594	Okay, we'll sublegalize the issue of workers. We expect that in the privatisation process, they will behave reasonably, if the court allows them to block their personal incomes, or salaries, then commit suicide economically and attempt to combat privatisation. Otherwise, in a bankruptcy procedure they have the right in the first order, but only minimum personal incomes, i.e. salaries for a year. As for the question, Mrs. Comic, about the employees...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6595	Minister, just after the amendment for two minutes, I'm trying to do the same for the MPs, those are the rules. You can't answer backwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6596	So I didn't get the word before.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6597	Well, you haven't answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6598	Well, how come I didn't answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6599	I don't want to really discuss it. The chairman runs the session, so, according to the amendment specifically, otherwise we can do it all night.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6600	... So it's not the law's goal to create new unemployment, the law's goal is to create a new start for these people, not for new unemployment. Therefore, we can discuss this in more detail outside of this brief session here. How much capital? There are very few companies that have at all positive capital and within that there will be even fewer people who will go through this and have capitalization, only this applies to them and we can give you a written assessment of how little it is. High circulation sheets, we took a standard formulation that is applied in Serbia, where they are all distributed and you know it as much as I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6601	Otherwise, when you answer, you have to log into the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6602	I just picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6603	No, you're not safe. The word is Zoran Jozic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6604	Thank you. I will comment slightly on this article 40, or amendment to Article 40, which has been submitted by distinguished opposition colleagues. Exactly, I hope the citizens of this beautiful country follow this, so that they can understand what they're planning and why our colleagues are erasing. It is a member who says - a contract on the sale of capital is considered to be broken, due to failure to fulfil contractual obligations, unless, even in the subsequent period left for the performance of the contractual obligation, the buyer does not remove the following infringements of the contractual obligations. It is stated what – non-payment of the contracted price in accordance with the sales contract, the availability of the assets of the privatisation entity contrary to the provisions of the contract, the availability of the capital of the privatisation entity contrary to the provisions of the contract, the lack of guarantee in accordance with the sales contract. I don't know what's not clear about that. Maybe it's a better option for us to have the privatisation or the law he used to be, so that no one had the responsibility when he bought a company, that he really respected the contractual obligations that were set before him. Then we came into a situation to criticise this law today, more in principle than in detail, and to defend some law, the opposition to defend some law that cannot be defended from the earlier period. Today we have heard more comments and more words of the type that this law is inadmissible, that it is corrupt, that it is very creative to defend the law of MPs from this small group of opposition, it is just like that it has commented – it is very creative to defend the law. I don't think it's hard to defend something that's being put up as honorable and honest. It's hard to defend before. With the law we had, we came into a situation where hundreds of thousands of workers could stay on the street, you came into a situation where you sell companies at the lowest price, we came into a situation where we had a very bad estimate of the value of capital and property. I'm going to give a brief example, this is about Blace, and we had a company called Unity, which was sold at no cost at all than they were currently carrying goods in the warehouse. Is that fair privatisation? Is that an honest law that can be defended, and this one we can't defend? The opposition had a chance when it was once in power and would hardly have it again, to do something good for the country of Serbia, for citizens and for workers in many social enterprises. What was done well, it was seen. I think the most important thing to say is that it was done well only for tycoons, for political friends, for people who were in power at that moment, and now that the government led by Prime Minister Vukic has come into a situation and with the greatest desire to do something right and positive, then it is now being criticised, then it is not good. Excuse me, gentlemen, this government has not fired 400, 500,000 workers and has not donated businesses such as some previous governments and as it was under the Law on Privatisation of 2001, 2002, 2003, when some members of this opposition claim that they have no influence whatsoever. I think there was a lot of influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6605	You're wasting your time? You have four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6606	Thank you, President. So, I'll use four minutes, then after the MPs' time. I'd like to ask the promoter...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6607	What did you say, what did you spend?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6608	The time of the mandated promoter, and later I will use the time of the parliamentary group. The question arises when the amendment is already being discussed, what is being offered as an alternative. Let's reminisce. It was precisely these four points that set out the preliminary Privatisation Act, which was adopted in 2001. It was these four points that related to the conditions for the termination of the sales contract that were defined at that time. Nothing's changed. Other definitions and provisions of this text are exclusively in the sense of preventing abuse. I'd like to try to narrow ourselves down to reality, gentlemen of the DS, gentlemen who are proposing these amendments, why didn't you apply this provision in 2008? Because of this provision, you haven't applied as long as the restructuring process has lasted since 2003, since 2002? Why was there no control over privatisation and restructuring procedures? Why wasn't there any surveillance? Why didn't you stop the restructuring process in 2008? Why didn't you take everything into bankruptcy? Now we appear as concubines, not even a little bit correct. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, one extremely well-intentioned suggestion, I hope you accept it. You've answered the question concerning employee status, Mr. Minister, I'm just going to point out that we're going to be in trouble again with the constitutionality of this law. Again, we will be in trouble that someone will submit an initiative to examine whether the provisions relating to employees' rights as executive creditors are to continue enforcement procedures, according to privatisation entities in restructurings or in restructuring firms, is this their right to be compromised? Yes, it is. Once again, the Constitutional Court will report in the same way, and the Constitutional Court will again conclude that employees have the right to do so. Make sure that this is regulated by a sublegal act, that we don't get into trouble with the Constitutional Court, that we don't get into trouble with a judicial system that's very clear here, whose definitions through decisions are extremely precise in terms of protecting human rights, in terms of protecting labour rights and on the basis of work. We have a law on work that we've guaranteed rightly. We're not going to break that law we recently passed. Most importantly, as far as the Hague Convention on the Protection of Human Rights is concerned, we must respect it. Therefore, employees must have privileged status as executive creditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6609	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 41 and 41 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6610	The predecessor gave the main arguments why we are asking for the removal of this article, because he has said well and it is good that in the 41st article he understood the essence of our intention, which is that we should delete all those members who are completely or almost completely copied from the existing law and that there was no need for a new law to be written, but it was necessary to intervene with the amendments to the law, where it was necessary. One 10% of the law was due to change, above all, the deadline for the privatisation to finally be limited this time at the end of 2015. Otherwise, in the theory of manipulation of the "Balkan Red Kmers" ideologies, lies are very present all the time, so the question was why did someone in 2008 fail to conduct bankruptcy? If this was a question addressed to me in 2008, I was dealing with vineyards, as is known to the Serbian public, and you were in power with DS, to remind you, take a calendar, look at a bit, and see what happened when. The second thing is that it is clear to all of us that no arrangements, negotiations, burzars, I do not know what kind of variations were present in the period January 2002, when the law began to apply until February 2004. I again offer you here present associates, ministers and him personally, and also across the street from this kid, Sinisha Mali, who today is the mayor of Belgrade, who was a participant in all these privatisations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6611	Thank you. You've talked a lot about the amendment. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. Excuse me, Minister Dusan Vujovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6612	It has been mentioned several times that we have rewritten the old members. We've come from the old law. We suggested changes that we considered necessary and when we finally looked at everything that we had changed, it turned out to be more than 50% and a half of the rules that apply then we called it a new law. So it wasn't our goal to reject the old law, we were changing our consciences what we thought was supposed to change. When we finally counted all of that, it turned out to be more than 50%. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6613	Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic. On what basis are you answering? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ( A) What member? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Article 104, you did not mention him specifically to the words "Balkan Red Kmers". No, it's a straight line. What do you mean, Article 104, that's the right to a replica? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: I do not replicate, I suggest you did not warn him. According to Article 104, you were obliged to warn the previous speaker after offensive expressions. Which one? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: When he said that those who spoke, and I am the representative of those who spoke... They all spoke today, they didn't. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: Don't let the president tolerate something that cannot be tolerated. I accept a certain degree of tolerance towards the opposition, I accept... I've got to do with most of them. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: You have not yet included my time.) I don't include time, you know I don't do technique. I don't know how we communicate if you're not involved, I only hear if the microphone is on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6614	Probably because I talk a lot loudly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6615	With pleasure, it's just that this weather isn't right for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6616	All right, I will continue to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I believe that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, that you should have warned Mr. Zivkovic, especially on the words of "red chambers", before that he pleaded in one way that is inadequate and about some suitcases and I don't know what else. I'll just draw attention, I don't know what term the SPS parliamentary group should use for those who led to the destruction of the economy, to a cemetery in the economic and economic and financial system of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6617	Please, just about hurting the Rules of Procedure, if you're so strict I'm hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6618	That's exactly what I'm pointing out, and I'm asking you to give any further comment that this way is sanctioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6619	Thank you. Two minutes. I don't think I hurt myself, you're instructions from words I don't know who they're referring to, and it would have been a violation of the Rules of Procedure if I knew exactly who or if I were alluding to something. You're wrong. Just tell me if you want us to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Yes. ) I thank you very much, MPs, for your correctness. At least Ambassador Zivkovic can't really say that I'm intolerant of him. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6620	Thank you. Article 41 has legal implications for the termination of the contract on the sale of capital and I only change it in one position, and if this amendment was adopted, this Article 41 reads - in the event of the termination of the contract due to the unfulfilled contractual obligations of the buyer of capital, and in order to protect the general interest, the buyer of capital would lose the right to recover the amount paid on behalf of the contracted price, we agree, the draft law and my amendment. The total capital of the privatisation entity, which was directly or indirectly acquired by the buyer on the basis of the obligation under the sales contract, as well as any compensation or compensation on the basis of the same, other than shares acquired by purchase on the organised securities market, we also match. The next position says – in the event of the termination of the contract on the sale of capital due to the failure to fulfil the contractual obligations of the buyer of capital in order to protect the general interest, the buyer of capital is obliged to pay the penalty of two percentages of the estimated value of capital, it remains the same in the position. I know exactly what kind of problems this would be in sublegal acts, but I think we should consider this provision, that in the event of a termination of the contract, that the buyer of capital is obliged to pay the fine. The consultations said that I could not use the word "punishment", since penalties were defined by other laws. However, since the law otherwise refers to penalties, i.e. the loss of justice, the penalty, and the rest, it remains a “punishment. ” If this provision is considered, I am prepared to make an correction, if this is a "punishment" problem for those who are doing legal norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6621	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 42 and 42 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development of Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6622	Thank you. I think we've come to a turning point in this debate, and that's the minister's little answer, who explicitly said that the old law wasn't bad, but had to be repaired because of the new atmosphere and the new situation in which our economic environment, as far as I understand it, was going to fix some of the mistakes that were observed in the application of the law in the earlier period, if I understood this correctly. So that's the point. It's the essence of our plot, to prevent the avalanche of one law, one legal act, which is allegedly responsible for all the problems in this country. That, of course, is not true. The Serbian economy devastation began in the 1990s. It began when we were separated from the world by our own free will, by other people's will, by being bombed, by having fought stupid wars that we'd lost neatly. That's when the economy was devastated. It is true that by misapplication of some parts of the Privatisation Act from 2004 to the day today and the rest was quite damaged, so that is the essence and that is what we wanted to show to the Serbian public and therefore we have submitted this number of amendments with, of course, the same text. Therefore, as a sign of goodwill, after what is now clear, the two of us will continue to use only one minute for each amendment. Another dilemma, absolutely in no way did I mean the SPS when I said "Balkan Red Commers." Who I was thinking of, I'd leave it to the president to judge for himself. I'm kidding.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6623	Thank you. Otherwise, I have seen a stenogram, there are no particular words that MP Jovanovic quoted, and it is respected for you, so I am a calm conscience this time. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development of Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6624	Article 42 speaks of a capital representative and through the amendment of counterpart Borislav Stefanovic, and I repeat our proposal to put into law ten years of work experience. I know it's for leading positions, but, you know, people here need to do a job that's measured with extremely important management positions in our country. It's a business of general interest, it's a public business. They won't be here for ten years. They have an obligation to do those jobs. If anything needs to produce trust, it's that you have a man who has ten years of working experience to, say, deal with capital agents in this article. The second part of the amendment refers to the terms "good businessman" and "to take care of his trusted privatisation entity with the attention of a good businessman". I asked for it to be erased because it remains unclear what a good businessman means, and I'm afraid, knowing the history of poor application of unclear provisions, that in some court case it all comes down to proving that he was a good businessman and that he was trying to prove that he wasn't. So that we may not have that seed for the possibility of a capital agent arguing on that basis, to simply delete. It is understood that a capital agent will be someone who will really pay attention to the subject of privatisation, and for ten years, we repeat again in one place, I was hoping to explain why.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6625	The word has Dragan Aleksic after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6626	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, the honourable MPs, this amendment is unacceptable, as it requires erasing the words "as a good businessman" and "with the attention of a good businessman" relating to a capital representative. I think it's very important that the Agency, with the consent of the Ministry, appoints as a temporary agent of capital. Although this is just two, three words, many say that we in the SNS, and the government of the Republic of Serbia, we see it and how DS. I understand them. They didn't care what happened to our businesses and our workers. That's why hundreds of thousands of them are out of work. All they cared about was where people close to the top of the DS could benefit. That's why they went through the election the way they did. I will explain what it means when a good businessman is named as a capital representative in the case of the company “Crusik plastics” a.d. from the municipality of Osecina. Namely, "Krusik Plastica" is a company that was sold to the public auction of Višnja Jerkovic, the daughter mentioned today by Milet Jerkovic, at the time of some previous government. If the Agency had then taken care of who the buyer was and had had to obtain the opinion of the competent money laundering organisation, as the current bill provides, it could not have happened, that Mile Jerkovic was buying 20 or more companies, including Krusik Plastics. Višnja Jerkovic, 2009 with the consent of the Privatisation Agency, resigned from the company NPCO from Belgrade. The Agency's decision of 16 June 2010 suspended privatisation and transferred the capital of the company Krusik Plastica from Osecina to the Privatisation Agency. There was a break-up due to a non-compliance with the customer's purchase agreement with the Agency. Since March 2011, “Cruik plastics” has been restructured. The company regularly reconciles obligations with the corresponding taxes and contributions, which certainly does not make a lot of businesses in this situation. In 2013, production increased by 50% and the company did positive business. This company is of strategic importance for the Municipality of Osecina and employs the largest number of workers, 132 constantly employed and 50 at a fixed time. The company, as well as several other similar but smaller ones in Osecina, manufactures water pipes up to three metres in diameter, water tanks, oil separators and fats. Unfortunately, it has often happened or at least happened in the previous period that the construction of collectors funded by the Republic of Serbia through the resolution ministries, buys and installs pipes and separators of foreign producers besides our products, whose quality has been proven, and prices are significantly lower. The Plastic Circle exports its products to Germany, Belgium and other EU countries. The DAL company with a similar production program, from which I come, delivered, for example, a 25-cubic tank in Norway yesterday, and only with us cannot meet the requirements. What's the problem? Now we come to the topic that the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is so potent, which is corruption. Because of the "honor" intentions of designers, investors and users, our businesses are not in an equal position but are often in a subordinate position, so they were eliminated at the beginning. Here's a case to see what a request for sewers looks like: “Looking for a DN 1000 passphrase of polypropylene orange. ” I'm undermining this "orange", because the shaft is embedded in the ground and I don't know who's in the color. "A period of at least 100 years", which is not disputed, "confirmed by LGA, the German Institute of Construction Engineering". What does that mean? Anyone else in the world that confirms quality doesn't fit. So if it's from the American Institute, it's not accepted. There are some more technical requirements. Here's just one detail: climbers inside a cup of silver gray. It is clear here that the practically drawn product of one foreign, specifically German, producer and all other requests are sent only formally. To run something in this country, it takes a number of reform laws, as those we have recently passed, the Labour Act, those we are talking about today, as well as those that will follow, for example, the Inspection Act, because the current inspections are so inefficient that we can freely end everything and nothing would feel. I don't blame those who work in inspections, they're not guilty, they're simply divided by the ministries and they don't know whose jurisdiction is. The penalties don't pay those who work, as if the states don't have any at all, because most often they don't see each other, but those who, I say, try to work in accordance with the law, so they fall for a little thing, because someone has to be punished. One "Simpo" from Vranja, and if it were even the world's most organised firm, could not survive because in the interior of Serbia, there is a registered or unregistered store in almost every street, a company, in the house, in the garage, for the production of furniture with which Simpo, if it pays off its obligations, cannot be worn. I also mention registered here, because someone registers a store, a company, has one or two employees, i.e. one or two registered, buy legally raw materials that can process that one or two employees, sell official products in that quantity and for inspection he is clean, in fact buying 10 times more raw materials on black and selling 10 times more products. How can such ones be dealt with by those who strive to act in accordance with the law? I have mentioned here some of the problems that our businesses have, both in restructuring and all others, and I understand there is much to be done to create a healthy business climate. It is clear that it does not matter who the Agency has appointed as a capital representative. A good businessman is needed to fight for the interests of the companies he represents, not to contribute to the company’s bankruptcy as soon as possible. I was just talking here with the goal of the government doing everything in its power to survive companies that could and only those who have no perspective go into bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6627	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 43 and 43 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Guests, as has been said here, we have submitted the amendment to Article 43 and all the reasons we used to justify our amendment for the article. 40, 41, 42, and for this article now spoken of by Mr. Aleksic, with certain examples from the practice of the company where he was or for which he knows some information, all of these reasons apply to our amendment to Article 43. Mr. Jozic wonders here what is now not clear in Article 42, and he certainly wonders what is not clear in Article 43? We're clear. We are especially clear now that the minister has confirmed everything that we have been talking about all day today and why we have submitted all 95 amendments, yes and now, until this proposal of the privatisation law is passed we have a good privatisation law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6629	The minute's up, just to remind you of your promise. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6630	For the sake of Serbian citizens, just to say to all the people who are following the transfer, the gentlemen in question agree to delete a member who defines what must be in the report of the capital advocates submitted to the Agency, which is another in a series of evidence that someone likes to take out secular actions, that someone likes to mutilate in privatisation, that it was his basic action. Just to tell the citizens of Serbia one very important thing -- here someone wants us to stay old, to sell companies to direct contracts, mugging, as the people would say. I ask you, citizens of Serbia, that this is exactly the kind of tolerance, and everything -- it is deleted, because if you deleted something like this, you would really go back to where companies are literally sold in such a way that someone becomes the winner of the transition and that workers remain definitely the losers of the transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6631	The word is made by the MP Vladan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6632	I won't be long. I would just like to invite the promoters of this amendment to appear in my Vladimirs, which the previous law has wrapped in black with its good privatisation and where the missing companies such as "DP Unity Vladimirs", "Posavotamnave", "Veterinary Stations 7 July" and not to list all of them, so I would like those workers, and there are about a thousand and a half of them, to explain your amendments. I'd be happy to host you in my Vladimirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6633	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6634	Dear President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, I just want to correct one irregularity shown here by a respected fellow from the opposition party, which is that it is a replacement of thesis. We are all present here and we have heard a good statement from Mr. Minister who said that by amending the Law on Privatisation, when 50% of the members changed, they realized that it was a change of the whole law, which I would not give for the right of a respected fellow professor, whose obstruction today, I must say, absolutely negatively surprised, as well as the use of the word "combination" in which a dose of fear was seen. But, gentlemen of the opposition MPs, you have no reason to be afraid. The word: "combination" in the SNS and in the ruling structure will not be used in the way it was used during the 12-year rule of the current opposition MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6635	Please, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6636	I'm going back to the amendment. The amendment should in no way be accepted. I want to add one. Back to the old, i.e. By using the original law advocated by the opposition MPs, I will not repeat myself, as my distinguished colleagues, over a hundred thousand people who have lost their jobs. I can't help but look back today at the exposure, although it's not there, I have to mention the head of the parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6637	You can only talk about the amendment. You can't go back to exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6638	The amendment should not be accepted, in any case. This is why it is not necessary to return to the Privatisation Act in the original sense, but to support the amendments of the members of the law, because the municipality from which I come, in two sentences, I will say this, Mladenovac, 12 or 13 years ago, before the rule of the opposition current structure, had employed over 20,000 workers. It is now in a situation that there is absolutely no one to cross over the bridge that separates the urban from the industrial section. Instead of the worker bridge, now it's a bridge of ghosts. For all these reasons, I would like to say that neither this amendment nor the complete discussion, the obstructions we have experienced here should be accepted, nor should these previous amendments that the gentlemen of the opposition listed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6639	On behalf of the members of the 44th and the 44th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6640	Article 44 defines the right of a capital agent to compensation for his work. I will remind my colleagues that this member, the previous member and the next member in the same text have been transposed from the previous law, or the applicable law, so that nothing is lost by erasing, as the previous member is the same as this one. Take some and read. As far as the Vladimirs are concerned, whenever you want. Whenever you want, call. You said to tell the workers. Whenever you want, we're at our disposal. Thank God, I told the workers the truth a long time ago, and I never had a problem with the workers for 20 and a few years of political work. Finally, I think it's bad for you to create, on the one hand, a bad atmosphere of privatisation, as a concept, as the need of this society, while at the same time favouring the Privatisation Act offered by your government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6641	You promised after the amendment for a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6642	I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6643	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 45 and 45 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6644	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, for the Article 45 on which we have submitted the amendment, the same thing we have said about Article 44 is true. If we delete it today he won't disappear, because he already exists in the Privatization Act that we have. As far as the obstruction mentioned here is concerned, I have to say now and around this member here -- no, on the contrary, gentlemen. Well, the minister confirmed that we were able to achieve one of our goals today. But I must admit, first Mrs. Savic of MPs and MPs of the ruling coalition recognized it here, and I think Mr. Nejo did it, Mr. Kovacevic today, and you can see that during the day, we're getting a little bit of what we tried to explain during the amendment debate on the proposal for a law on privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6645	Nice try, but no one's gonna answer the line. On behalf of members of the 46th and the 46th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6646	Thank you very much. This is where the trading conditions are defined. Unfortunately, it is one business activity that has not been revived in Serbia. At first, somewhere when the stock market was made, there was still some shop on it. In recent years, practically, all activities in the Belgrade Stock Exchange have been exhausting each other's transactions between AIK Bank shareholders and several other companies. Traffic on that stock market is so low and I think people who work there have a problem with their own personal incomes and material costs, because they don't have enough money from commissions to earn and that's very bad. When a country does not have a stock market, even in this basic sense, it means that economic activity is very low. It is not the fault of the current government, to be clear, but it will not change the pseudoreform laws, but only one serious relationship to reality can change that. Let me say it one more time, no demagogy. We don't deal with the demagogue of quasi-protection workers. We find that unfortunately the solution is only necessary, however ugly, for most of these 600 companies, bankruptcy. You will do so and these people will most likely lose their jobs, which is also a condition for this and the new Labour Act, but I am aware that this is the black reality in which we live, and in that part we will not transfer anything to you. Thank you. Next time, I'm not answering, since I've been talking for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6647	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a time of MP. By the way, there's very little time left, I'm obliged to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6648	I don't understand why anyone would want to delete a member who defines how to provide trading conditions. However, the actions of some companies when privatisations took place, when you may have been an actor, were indeed completely offended. I understand that you may not be interested in it, but don't let anything hurt that now. I see you're advocating the bankruptcy of all companies. I understand. As you conducted your privatisations, you put the entire state into bankruptcy. Indeed, this is another one in a series of indicators how destructively you have approached a law like this, but it shows what you are and why the citizens of Serbia are all costing all of this today because of a series of submitted amendments that are essentially complete, absolutely pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6649	The word is from the MP Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6650	Dear President, Mr. Minister, I am truly fascinated by today's amendments, Mr. Parliamentarian. I'm just afraid Mr. Zivkovic explains it so little with less energy, with less heat than Mr. Pavicevic, so I would suggest that Mr. Pavicevic take over, perhaps he can convince one of us to accept some amendment. I really can't vote for what Mr. Zivkovic has just explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6651	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 47 and 47 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6652	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, and I am pleased that there is still one strong energy to discuss the amendments of the New Party MPs to the Privatisation Bill. This is where we submitted the amendment to Article 47. He's a lot more than most of the other members of this bill, so I'm not going to read him. I think it's important, let's say, that Mr. Cvetanovic, Mr. Radojevic, is on the verge of accepting some of our amendments. This is just another attempt to strengthen him on that path. When Mr Cvetanović says – the combination no longer has the meaning, there is no, but there is another. For example. in chess means more interrelated moves. We did not just propose this because of that combination, but also because some chess ideas would not be in circulation and suggest that it be a nice term – merger. Connecting means connecting with each other. Is there a better word for this in article 10 that you advertised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6653	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6654	Replication, mentioning names. I won't mention the name of the distinguished professor. I'm going to speak to you, so I don't give you another chance at replication. When I said the combination, I thought the opposition MPs were scared of themselves, knowing what combinations, variations, burassing relationships they made hundreds of thousands of people out of their businesses. Also, the combination for SNS has only original meaning and no other meaning. The criminogenic meanings that the combination had in the twelve-year previous period are in no way acceptable to us and we absolutely do not know what it means in another sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6655	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 48 and 48 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. On behalf of members 49th and Article 49th of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6656	Well, here it is - selling property. This is a dramatic change compared to the existing law, because the existing law did not foresee the sale of assets. That's what little Dickie means, so I've been warned. It doesn't have to be Djikica, it can be how Mali Sinisha imagines privatisation, and that's the combinations, the suitcase, the bros, the variations, whatever. So, the sale of assets, not capital, that distribution of privatization entities is for the first time defined by this law, as was the direct agreement or sale or negotiation not at all in the previous law, but was in the draft of this law, so it was thrown out, whether it was because of the pressure of someone or because of calling sense. In any case, this is the second part of our arguments why this amendment of the law should not be accepted, because here, as Vice President Udovici said, there are huge conditions for corruption and crime of the fastest kind and the two of us as representatives of the opposition want to protect you from yourselves. About the courage it was a question...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6657	Just about the amendment, there's nothing about courage.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6658	So everyone was talking about courage, I guess I could, about the amendment, about this, about the sale, about the courage of the sale...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6659	The bravest asked the question when the prime minister was here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6660	So when the prime minister comes to parliament, all MPs should feel blessed, not afraid, so they need courage. When I came to parliament as prime minister, everyone was blessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6661	Thank you very much. On behalf of the above members of the 50th and of the 50th Amendment, they submitted together... Ambassador Zivkovic, don't throw it away, everything goes into a stenogram to tell you, not just what is read. [[The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic throws out of place, you can't hear.]] So, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6662	President-in-Office, MPs, amendment to Article 50. All that was applicable to Article 49. – A programme for the sale of assets shall also apply to Article 50, as that member concerns the content of that asset sale programme. It is necessary that I say - e, it is purely for Mr Radojevic and Cvetanović, which means variation, that there is simply no unknown about any terms in our Assembly, deviation from the basic, original subject, content, shape, change, change of basic character, shape, etc. In our case, as today's debate confirms, it was not possible to think about any variation either, Mr. Jasic and Mr. Radojevic, or the combination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6663	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6664	Madam President, I know we are entering the 12th hour of work and I know that the concentration of all Members of the Parliament is at an end. Energy, will, desire, desire for reforms and a desire for change and a desire to participate in the work of the National Assembly, the Serbian Progressive Party, the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group is not missing, here are colleagues, I am grateful to them as opposed to some stealth parliamentary groups that are not even interested in this debate. I understand and welcome you when someone submits a large number of amendments, but please, if the only argument in the amendments will be the reading of a member who deletes and interprets Vujaklia, then it is a humiliation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Let's all bring Vujaklia now and we all comment on what someone else said, along with the violation of the Rules of Procedure and direct address to other MPs, which this Rules of Procedure does not recognize. So, I would ask you to warn your colleagues that because of their lack of ideas, which they didn't even have when they wrote the amendments, because I read carefully and saw that 95 arguments, 95 of the same reasons, are still a little more imaginative in believing that these are good solutions that they suggest. I'm ready to compromise, and I'm ready to talk about all the amendments, but I'm not ready to talk about Vujaklia, and I'm not ready to talk about breaking the Rules of Procedure, and I'm not ready to talk about purely economic laws because of some language forms.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6665	Just a member, I'm sorry, I admit I'm tired.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6666	Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6667	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I admit that fatigue does its part, and I can't pay attention to following every spoken word. I ask everyone to pay attention to their exposure. You want us to vote on a colleague? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Dr Aleksandar Radojevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6668	Since my last name was mentioned, I don't know why, but my colleague Pavicevic brought my last name into connection with variations on the subject, so I'm just sorry he couldn't define variations on the subject without the help of Vujaklia on the table. I think someone wearing that title would have to know that without the help of Vujaklia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6669	I didn't understand you now either, but fine. The session of the Committee on Amendments to Media Laws begins in a few minutes. If he's a member, please join his colleagues. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 51 and 51 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members of the 52nd and of the 52nd Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6670	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, we have also submitted the amendment to Article 52 concerning the asset sale contract and explained the amendment. In relation to the explanation that we delivered in writing, here I want to just add two more things, since I see that the debate is still going on, I think, with the same energy as when we started this morning and I think it's very good. I think it's okay, gentlemen, to use broader literature when we prepare for our performances in the National Assembly, including the Dictionary of the Serbian language of the Mother of Serbs, not the dictionary of foreign words and expressions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6671	If you consider that necessary for the substance of the amendment to Article 52.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6672	For example, Articles 52 and 10 showed that the Serbian language Dictionary of the Mother of Serbs was useful. This is where I saw the approval of the people who are our guests here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6673	You promised a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6674	Thank you, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6675	The 52nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6676	Thank you. Article 52 has the edge of the asset sales contract and amendments of counterpart Borislav Stefanovic and mine go in logical sequence with the change we have proposed for the sale of capital, as well as for the sale of assets. In this Article, paragraph 2 states that the contractual obligations of the buyer in the asset sale contract are normally two years. In the third position, it is said - exclusively from the position of the 2nd member due to the importance of maintaining its activity on a proposal from the restoring ministry in whose jurisdiction is the activity of the privatisation entity, a period of contractual obligations can be determined by a three-year contract for the sale of assets. With the same argument that we had when it came to our proposal to extend the sale of capital from three to five years, then we also suggest that it extend from three to five years. I am pleased that the provision on the sale of property comes upon such enthusiasm with those who will unreservedly support the law and that can only mean two things – or that there is not enough knowledge about the fragmentation before the sale and how it could possibly have been done or could not have been done, or that it does not understand the importance of this new legal institute that speaks of the sale of property. However, I would be happy to accept this amendment both in the case of a buyer of capital and in the case of a buyer of assets. What I wouldn't be happy to do is to endure, it may be unsolicited advice, I might be resented, but to persist in disqualifying the privatisation process because a year and a half before us may be the most difficult period for the privatisation process in some society. If we in public functions use a responsible public word we have nothing else to say except that privatisation is an evil process that leaves people with no hope and no job, it won't be a good support for a year and a half in people who will need to implement this law. I will vote against this law for my reasons, but it will never occur to me to challenge the idea of privatisation in one society and to make it difficult for people in the Ministry of Economy, whoever's leading them, and the Privatisation Agency, because I know how hard it's going to be. I don't understand the reasons for talking about privatisation as a process that destroyed our economy for at least two reasons. First, which is incorrect. Secondly, such argument is used by people who intend to uphold this law. I know it makes no sense to appeal that with much more numbers and much more rational approach we are talking about the privatisation process, but I simply feel like my duty to share this attitude with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6677	Thank you. I've given you time for the MPs' group. You've got a few seconds to go. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6678	The sale of capital as one of the privatisation models is, in fact, the acceptance of reality, according to the old law, I still run it as old, under the applicable Privatisation Act. Do you know how many companies have been sold, paid for the first war, broken halls, built shopping centers, built buildings, sold capital, and after a year they say -- here, we give you back the workers, we give you back the halls that have been thrown down, there's no business, there's no production, there's no employment, here we give you back the rest? Do you know how many such examples are in Serbia? Countless. For 10% or the first war, people came to capital that was worth a lot more. Therefore, it is also necessary to provide for a model of capital sales as one of the privatisation models, where this capital will be assessed correctly, where it will have its own price, where those interested in the price will be able to accept and be able to pay that price, and not to buy for a few thousand euros the property and wages worth hundreds of thousands of euros, to build up our buildings, to make shopping centres, and that the rest, and that the rest are usually spent machines and, unfortunately, spent employees, to return to the burden of the state. This is why it is necessary to predict this model that provides for the sale of capital, because the old law, or the existing law, did not foresee such a possibility, but these investors and those people who bought, and the state that made it possible for them to buy, to throw out the law, to throw out justice, to throw out everything that was right. This is a good sales model that actually predicts what reality is in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6679	Gordana, you only have one minute left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6680	Thank you. Article 52. - a property sale. Article 41. - selling capital. The sale of capital was, and the sale of assets is a member of which it is. Here, that's what I'm talking about. I fully understand the desire that when you support the government, everything is better than it is. I don't want to argue with anyone about a subject like this, but when you're talking about selling capital at the moment when it comes to an asset sale member, then I just need to remind you that the topic you've been talking about before 11 members. The sale of capital has always been, this is the sale of property. I'm looking for a five-year contract, for good reason. Please think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6681	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above members of the 53rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6682	This Member shall define the way in which the asset sale contract is granted. So now I'm talking about selling assets, not capital. The predecessor kept repeating capital, probably a lapus, not on purpose. So this is about property. Of course this is a solution that has its foothold in the previous law. The sale of assets is a newspaper, but the way the sale contract is granted is the same as when the contract on the sale of capital is granted. It has been said that a lot of privatisation has been done with 10% of the value of privatisation and that then there are broken-down companies, built shopping malls, buildings, and I don't know what, which is true and there's no doubt that there are many examples of it, except that there's a wrong target here, since no such case, by letters, or numbers, has happened at a time when I was responsible for anything in this country, and it's a public secret all over Serbia that since 2004, until a few months ago, the greatest critic of what was then ruled in various forms...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6683	MP, about the amendments. I ask you all to return to your amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6684	I'm talking about a contract to sell property, 43. I mean, a lot of people have abused it, even by the law that didn't predict this, but there's certainly no sign of the New Party or anyone who represents its views. So, of course, there were a lot of abuses in the privatisation process, but you can't transfer that to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6685	The word has Zoran Babic, wrong interpretation, replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6686	In no single gesture, in any single word, I have not submitted this amendment, which unfortunately has not spoken of the amendment, described it as responsible for such a principle. I don't care if Zoran Zivkovic or Zoran Babic is responsible, let the judicial authorities determine. I don't have the authority to do that. I'm talking about a bad principle. I'm talking about a bad solution. I'm talking about what you said about cases like this, maybe not 10%, but one-fifth, because five years of the company sold, so one war is paid, street workers, or somewhere in the corner and comes up, and what's most attractive is taken. I'm talking about this principle that is unsustainable, which we cannot allow to be in a new law. If someone wants to buy the property of these companies, they have to pay it at the market price, as much as it's worth, not for one fifth of the company to buy the most attractive, to kidnap the most attractive, and then to get the workers and the spent machines back to the state. I'm undermining again, guilty of such a thing politically paid in elections, and legal guilt in courts. The state has to do this job, and it is our responsibility here to pass a law that will end this privatisation process and put an end to 2015, to protect people who work in these companies, to continue production, to have a future, to live in firms in restructuring and in companies in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency. In order to do such a thing, it is necessary that there is a broader diapazon of the privatisation model. One of these models is the sale of capital and the sale of assets.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6687	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. I can't give it to you, Mr. Zivkovic, when the previous speaker said it doesn't apply to you. He clearly said, the first sentence says - I didn't say, it's a bad principle. I'm recording now. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above members 54th and Article 54th of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6688	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, in less than a minute, I will comment on our amendment to article 54 precisely because of one kind of responsibility in relation to what the functions of the National Assembly are, and given one political responsibility, I think here, we have both argued that all of these members from 48 to 53, and this 54th in the context of the asset sale chapter should be deleted. Now I'm not going to repeat these arguments, I'm going to just remind you that we have submitted an amendment to Article 54. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6689	Okay. Thank you. Members of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. You've spent the time of the parliamentary group, you can only propose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6690	The analysis of the sale of capital, therefore, we are looking for this additional amendment, the language, otherwise, that in the event of the termination of the contract, two percent of the estimated value is paid, as well as in the case of the sale of capital. Simply as an additional limiting pre-known provision that would try to prevent easier, cheaper, by the buyer of property, the way he manipulates or throws out the law and uses any vague provision, by requiring a two-seat language correction in this part of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6691	Members of 55th and the name of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6692	I have nothing to add to that argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6693	Members of the title above the 56th and the 56th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6694	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, by amendment to Article 56, we actually wanted to round up interventions on all members belonging to this chapter 5. Proposal for a privatisation law relating to the sale of assets. There's no further argument that I can make here for article 56 than the previous members, so we're staying on the arguments we've used so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6695	Members of the 56th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and MP Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6696	The amendment concerns the completion of the asset sale process and the initiation of the liquidation process and the consistent idea of our first condition for whoever in this case is the liquidator, in previous cases a member of the commission, etc. We have suggested that, except that he or she must have a high level of expertise, that there is no conviction for which a prison sentence or another criminal act which makes it unworthy to carry out the affairs of the liquidator and that it is not a confidant or debtor of a privatization entity, which is normal, desirable and reasonable conditions. Also, at least five years of working experience in the work of a privatization entity or in the economy, we're looking for ten for the same reasons we're looking for professional ones. This is the last amendment we have on the Privatisation Act signed by counterpart Borislav Stefanovic and me. I thank the Minister for the answers. I hope we have opened a dialogue completely clear and meaningful. No, as a dialogue intention, someone as a dialogue responsibility for the processes ahead. I want to say that I am pleased that we have earned one thing, which is that the amendments and additions made to the 2001 Privatisation Law, which survived its changes and additions in 2005 and beyond, are now due to the unique methodological rules of the National Assembly. It's good that the rules we prescribed ourselves to respect. I want this privatisation law with the amendments adopted, at least some of those we suggested to be applied strictly. To be applied without interpretation and to be applied within the time limit in which it is written. The last thing I would like to do is be in office of this assembly in 2016 with a proposal from some economy minister asking for an extension of the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6697	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 57 and 57 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6698	For the same reasons, because the same or similar solution was contained in the existing law, we are asking for the removal of this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6699	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 58 and 58 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6700	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of transparency within this debate since there have been some problems during the day as well, just to say that we are now entering the seventh chapter of our Privatisation Bill and Article 58, which, of course, we have submitted an amendment concerning the application of the regulation and the criteria for sale. We are otherwise satisfied with today's debate and successes in certain aspects of our belief in certain goals that we need to achieve with the story of privatisation, so we will continue to make our debate more concrete about some of our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6701	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 59 and 59 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above the 60th and the 60th amendments together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above the 61st and the 61st amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6702	Thank you. Here is the change that I pointed to earlier, which is that in addition to the transfer of capital without compensation to employees in the existing law was an option and a transfer of capital without compensation to Serbian citizens. This is where it is thrown out and capital transfer is deposited without compensation to a strategic investor. That's the dangerous part I'm talking about. I don't think there's a bad intention, but I think this solution puts this law as a possible mechanism of crime and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6703	In the name above Articles 62 and 62. ... Please, say it. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Was this on article 61?) Yes. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: What kind of transfer of capital is spoken of? What kind of compensation? Please? ) Mr. Babici, a large number of amendments, I suppose the applicant of the amendment was a little confused. The word has a folk MP, head of the SNS parliamentary group Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6704	I will read Article 61 which, in the opinion of the applicant, should be deleted. Transfer of capital without compensation to employees, no strategic partners, no employees. And what's the problem with that? Where's the source of corruption now? Where's the source of some bad stuff? Do you think those people who worked, who made these companies, and 400,000 of them are the people from the political party where he was also the applicant of the amendment, are out of work, no future, nothing in life. They now have no right to even action, or to transfer capital to them, who were or are employed in these companies. So what's this about? I think he's here, I believe, and I would like this to be the error of the amendment bearer, but so much punishment for employees, so much desire to punish people in Serbia. I really can't do this, I can't believe someone like this can do this in a political connotation and in a political exchange of opinions, unless it's a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6705	Thank you, Mr. Granny. On behalf of members 62 and of the 62nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. D, does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6706	Yeah, it was a mistake, but it was your fault, because you didn't listen very carefully. You can check in the stenogram. I said we're now entering the part that deals with free transfer of shares. It's the eighth segment of the whole law, transfer of capital without compensation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6707	Mr. Zivkovic, we've already moved on to the next amendment. You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6708	It's not a replica. I'll explain that in addition to being free of charge to employees...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6709	We're already on amendment 62.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6710	That's what I'm talking about. The privatisation entity shall make a decision on the issue of actions without public call compensation and by notifying employees. That's what I'm talking about, but I've been misread earlier, so I want to catch it together. So, in the existing law, there's...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6711	Mr. Zivkovic, you keep talking about the amendment to a member...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6712	No, I'm talking about an amendment to Article 62. If I tell you it's 62nd, how can I convince you it's 62th, when you don't believe it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6713	It's not worth explaining to you, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6714	It's not worth it, of course. Therefore, I am telling you that there is an identical solution in the existing law, so that our erasing with arguments that we should erase what already exists remains, and I only added that we are expected to be a member of 64th and 65th respectively, where a strategic partner is introduced as a user of transfer of capital without compensation. I'm talking about segment eight whole, to speed up the debate. But if you don't, two minutes for each amendment, it's a deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6715	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 63 and 63 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. D, does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6716	An existing solution prescribed by the current law. It's a good solution, but nothing new. That's why we're looking for his erasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6717	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the 64th and the 64th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. D, does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members of the 65th and the 65th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. D, does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6718	Article 65, which says – conditions and method of transfer of capital without compensation to a strategic investor, is established in accordance with the regulations governing the investment incentive and based on the government's decision. It's the beginning of that part that we consider problematic, which even in the words of Vice President Widowly creates conditions for illegal business, pre-contracting, arbitration, exclusion, which you would say direct arrangements, so that we think that this entire segment that may have good intentions in its realization will go through great temptations and I think it's better that it doesn't have it than that it has and that it creates conditions for these temptations. This did not exist in the previous law, i.e. in the current law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6719	The head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6720	Someone who was the prime minister of this country or who has his ambition to become again, I personally don't think I'll be expecting it, must know that every investor who comes, not only in Serbia, to countries in the environment, anywhere, first looks at how the country is stable, whether the country's political stability is. And the political stability of the state has a bad impact when one MP or vice-president of the opposition party in the campaign, but also after calling for a Ukrainian scenario, calls again for the breaking of Belgrade, the burning of this building, just for the sake of coming to power. It came to such ideas were promoted by the people on the parliamentary list on which he was also a proponent of this amendment. Under number two, investors watch the country's legislation. That's why we're working on these reform laws to create an ambience, a favourable investment environment. And three, and I'll be corrected by people sitting here by the minister, who are sure I'm far more professional than I am in those conversations. A third question that may even be first. And what do you give as an incentive? And what do you offer us to come here to develop business and hire people? Someone who says the law needs to throw out incentive measures is someone who directly says we do not want new jobs in Serbia. No incentives, no new jobs. And that's a direct answer why you shouldn't accept a amendment like this. Sometimes incentives are financial, sometimes paid by job. And that's what we've done in the past. I'm not saying we won't be doing that in the future. For Serbia, the basis, for Serbian citizens, is to start working, to start producing, to start creating new values. Without it, there's no state. There's nothing. Those who say we don't need incentive measures or they don't understand the economy, or they don't have good intentions, or they both do. In any case, incentives measures, and as one of the incentives measures, are the conditions and means of transfer of capital without compensation for strategic investors established in accordance with the regulations governing the incentive for investors. I'd love to, and I'd be very happy, I'd take my hat off, I'd say -- well done, master. If the proposer of this amendment were to say – here I have brought a strategic partner for "Smederevo Iron"? Here I am, not that I didn't transfer that stock for free, zero, zero. Where are those investors? Where are those investors? Where's "The Iron"? On the back of the country, 8.5m euros a month. Why don't you solve one, don't you have "The Iron" any, any of these neural points for our society? No, but now let's erase that there's no incentive. Well, bravo, what are we gonna do? Then there's no jobs, there's nothing. Why in the past, when you led this country, did it not bother you to share tens and thousands of euros per job? Then it was okay, and then it could have been for some, and it bothers you when something like that is foreseen in the law, and it's under clearly defined criteria and conditions. I think the amendment promoter has overlooked these economic indicators that are valid everywhere in the world and valid in Serbia. I would not like to bring such a proposed amendment with economic ignorance or with poor political will and opinion on the economy and on the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6721	Thank you, Mr. Granny. On behalf of members 66th and Article 66th of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade and Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6722	That's that unfortunate article 66. Some people think it's some kind of devil's number, I'm not superstitious, but it's definitely not good because the strategic partnership is that kind of direct bargaining, and it has nothing to do with something that's being transferred. Of course it's possible to hire without incentives. The incentive measures were introduced for the first time in 2007 or 2008 or perhaps even later. I mean, only in the first government run by the DS with the Socialists or the DSS. At the time I led the Serbian government, there was no incentive, and employment was very active. Also, you were talking about "The Irons" Smederevo so I'll tell you, I did bring a strategic partner for "The Iron" Smederevo and while he was there, ask Shormaz if you don't believe me. You can't take my word from me, he just spoke half an hour ago about Smederev, and now I can't answer that. Where does Smederev's article 65 say what was said earlier?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6723	Mr. Zivkovic, please write your government experience in memoirs, but don't burden us with it all day. Mr. Babic was talking about the amendment, you're talking about some experiences now, but I might have been a little afraid that you would accept his offer, but we're going now to the amendment to 67. On behalf of a member of the 67th Amendment, the MPs together... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. Here you go, Mr. Granny, you're right, you're entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6724	A few days ago in this House, I was saying it's bad when someone in our society is doing those good things that someone else did. It's one time, 2001, 2002, 2003, it's another time in 2008. In 2002, 2003, 2004, there was no time for the global economic crisis, in 2008, there was a time for the global economic crisis. Other tools are tools, other functions when it's a different environment. But what stings is when someone else's job, a collective body such as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by the late prime minister, is now ten, twelve, thirteen years away from that period, and says, "I did it, even though we know that the government of the late prime minister did it." Some things from our history that no one is proud of, which some people respond to -- and it's good that it is, but let me, who I was on the other side and then and now and now, which I politically disagreed about, that I show more respect for these people than you show who you were very close to. Let something that someone else did and what was good at that moment, and where luck is that "Jues Style" had the strength and space on the market to stay in Smedereva, everyone would be happy, but don't take what it isn't yours to take for yourself and grab for yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6725	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6726	People are watching us. They know who he is and what he was doing, and don't let me defend the late Prime Minister from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6727	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 67 and 67 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6728	The contract with "Ju es style" was signed in August 2003, so much for smart and written ones, and the worst combination you have is the possibility of seeing reality...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6729	Mr. Zivkovic, please, we are on amendment to Article 66.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6730	I don't know what you're on. I'm talking about what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6731	Mr. Zivkovic, I understand that you are tired after this day, but you must respect the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6732	No, I'm not tired. You can't define who's here, what are you? The doctor?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6733	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaža Bradić and Ivan Karic together submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade and Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above members 68th and 68th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade and Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6734	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the honored guests, we have submitted an amendment to Article 68. I will explain why we have submitted the amendment to Article 68 very precisely now. This is one of the nine members of the Privatisation Act within the ninth chapter entitled "strategic partnership". Every time we read the members of this law we came across a coin of "strategic partnership" we reacted and explained why it was bad. This was the case of Article 2 in the case of Article 8. etc. Here is the question, by many MPs, well, the two of you who have submitted so many amendments and in which it says "expect", how do you propose, how to solve a problem that will be relevant to this privatisation law. I refer to all these MPs and other people who are interested in the subject, one document called the "Economic Reform Programme", which was created in the framework of the functioning of the NS Economic Council, which defined us as two basic objectives, the measures foreseen there, under one, economic growth, that is one thing and another, that and perhaps that is recorded somewhere, increased employment, gentlemen. That's two things, I think that we should talk about here all the time, how to ensure economic growth in our country and how to ensure that as many citizens in Serbia as possible are working. In this document, we also propose concrete measures on how to achieve this. I suggest, of course, next to Vujaklia and the Serbian Dictionary, on reading and that document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6735	Thank you. I wish you were so loud when the prime minister was in the O.R. The People's MP Zoran Babic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6736	I will agree on only one thing with the amendment's proposal, which is that it is necessary to increase economic activity and the number of employees in the country. About the dead letter on paper and what it says in the programs, I don't want to deal with it, because that's what nobody's ever seen of it. What I'm trying to say is that this government of the Republic of Serbia is solving and increasing business activity and the number of employees is right through a strategic partnership, I'm trying to have the same style as my predecessor, which is that from JAT Airways, which had 28 to 55 million losses, it made a company that by just one year the age of a plane from the 26-year average reduced to 9.5 years, which received nine Erbass A319 and Erbas's A320, where the number of passengers increased by 70%, that the new 300 people were employed, so I would suggest that the amendment be still writing economic programs, and that they let us go with such strategic partners to employ people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6737	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On behalf of members 69th and Article 69th of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Zoran Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6738	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed chairman, the esteemed guests, of course, I think it's okay to have a little wit in our National Assembly. Whoever has such an initiative, I support it, has no dilemma whatsoever. When I talk about our amendment to Article 69. The proposal of the Privatisation Act, this article refers to the control of the execution of contractual obligations and there is a need for me to mention two important things. One thing is - I agree with all the MPs who have claimed here that stability and rule are the right of a key category to create conditions for the security of a good privatisation process. What's the matter with us? What we don't have is stability, and we don't have the rule of law, and that's why the whole chapter on the strategic partnership is problematic for the two of us, and, among other things, on these members of the Privatisation Act that concerns the strategic partnership, we have been particularly pleased to write our amendments that read "is deleted". I have one more thing to add here. I think it's an unfortunate thing to hear in the National Assembly a comment that some economic policy programme, which means that this text is about trying to define concrete proposals for solutions to some problems, says it's a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6739	Time. Well, then, can we do some billing...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6740	The Honorable Chairman of one minute and 36 seconds was when you told me the time. When Mr. Babic comes in two minutes and 11 seconds, you don't tell him anything. I don't think it's an example of some kind of tolerance or respect for the Rules of Procedure. How can that happen? And not only does Mr. Babic come in two minutes and 11 seconds, but he can talk about what he wants. He doesn't have to say what's in it or what's in it, or what's in it, or what's in it, or what's in it, or what's in it, or what's in it, or what's in it, or what's in it, or what's in it for. He can go back in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6741	Time's up. Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6742	A dead letter on paper to wave in circles, from which Serbian citizens have no use and will remain a dead letter on paper, because the support proposed by the amendment is such that it cannot employ anyone, not a single local community in Serbia, let alone the state of Serbia. As far as this proposed amendment is concerned, I can't understand. On the one hand, he does not respond to a strategic partner, and on the other hand, he does not respond to control. Let's do this for a strategic partner to understand, but what the hell isn't in control? What's wrong with control? When something is not controlled, it means it is ready for combinations, as Mr Cvetanovic said. Tell the public - we want them to be made in the privatisations of the combination, we don't need control, we don't need to mix the state. Say it out loud. You just said openly that you're being bothered by your employees, that you're not going to transfer your assets to your employees, that you're not going to transfer your assets to your employees. Probably only employees are prepared, according to your economic program, dead letter on paper, cancellations, and now to turn off the light. When we turn off the light, then it's great for Mr. Cvetanovic's combinations, as he defines them. Therefore, this amendment is highly unacceptable for neither SNS nor for the most part of the parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6743	Thank you, Mr. Granny. On behalf of members of the 70th and Article 70th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6744	Article 70 reads: “The decision on strategic partnership, establishing a new business society, is made by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Business Affairs”. This member of the law is the basis for corruption and therefore needs to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6745	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6746	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs, as regards the 69th member, my colleague explained, although you did not give me your word, but when we talk about Article 70, where the Government is making decisions that are strategically practical for all companies that are in social property and those that are in restructuring, Article 70 has to exist right now, because if there is no member, that means you're in favour of a direct contract. If the government does not make decisions for strategic partnerships, as there are certain privatisations that have been implemented in the past without a government decision in some way, then you have direct corruption. So what's in the world today's economic development system is going through Greenfield and Brownfield investment, but now that there's less and less Greenfield investment, or investment that's been from the beginning, than the green meadow, there's a growing use of the strategic partnership system today. The seriousness in which it should prove to be an investor state or a co-investor, based on a social property that connects, is precisely a member of the 70th that says the government is making strategic decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6747	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. You were at one point in the system, and then you weren't in the system. I thought you gave up. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 71 and 71 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6748	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the esteemed guests, here, for one orientation, since I see that we are losing slowly here, at least some MPs, that orientation, just to record where we are. Therefore, Article 71 and amendment of the New Party MPs to Article 71 A proposal for a privatisation law. This article is about establishing a new business society and I'd like to say two things here. The strategic partnership, so all of these things that are foreseen by Article 71 are already things seen. It is said here that this is something new, that there are new principles behind it that will solve some problems. Strategic partnerships have already seen things. The example of "Fiyata", the example of "Etyhada", are examples of strategic partnerships, gentlemen. These examples rest on the secret of the contract, that no citizen of Serbia or a citizen can know what it says there. Wait, is that the principle on which we're based the new privatisation law, and today we've heard from the Prime Minister that we won't even know what it says in those contracts. What does that make sense? The second thing, Mrs Tomic, was commenting on the content of our amendments to these members said – well, well, if there are no articles 70. But, Mrs Tomic, that is, the Honorable Chairman and Mrs Tomic, if she does not have a member 66, she does not have to be a member of 67, and we do not have to be a member of 71, or 72, or 73, or 74, which concludes the chapter on strategic partnership and no member, until the last, 95th, respected chairman and respected Mr Babiæ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6749	Thank you. The Prime Minister answered everything you should have asked him. The government minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6750	Since no one has been able to explain the amendment to Article 68 which has been accepted and entered into the draft text of the law, I am taking the opportunity to read to you this amendment: "Article 68 following Article 1 adds a new position 2, which reads: "A strategic partnership agreement is published on the official websites of the Agency for the Privatisation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia within three days of the signing day". “ Therefore, take this as an integral part of the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6751	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The replica was reported by the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6752	Some contracts may be invisible to the promoter of this amendment because it looks at them with closed eyes. They may be invisible, but today he did not show such courage when Mr. Vukic showed contracts, among other things, and with "Etyhad". These contracts may be invisible to the amendment's promoter, but nine Airbus aircraft are visible. Here they are at Nikola Tesla Airport. Or fly. And as of next year, they'll be flying to America after 20 years. Maybe that's invisible to the promoter of this amendment, too. It may also be invisible that 10 new "Erbas" A-320 was ordered. And it's invisible. It is also invisible that the number of passengers has increased by 70%. You know, there's a regular class and we've all been through that regular class. I am sorry that other colleagues, to whom this is clear, are going through the extra class, but I am willing to teach that extra class until the eyes are wide open, until reality is seen in Serbia. I can teach that extra class at Nicole Tesla Airport. I can also hold on to these Airbus planes. Wherever he wants one who won't open his eyes. A year, two, he'll see. No problem. I'll be persistent. I will fight for the amendment's proposal to see through and see what reality is in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6753	Thank you, Mr. Babic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Pavicevic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6754	Article 103, 104 and 107. Mr. Chairman, please explain to me how Mr. Babic is the only MP in this National Assembly who has the right to reply? I didn't get the right to a replica when I asked, Mr. Zivkovic didn't ask, Mr. Radivojević, Cvetanovic... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6755	Mr. Pavicevic, you gave him a chance at a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6756	Only Mr. Babic has the right to a replica. Based on what?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6757	If you'll excuse me, let me explain. You gave Dr. Aleksandra Tomic the opportunity and opportunity for replication and folk MPs, because you mentioned her name and name. You also gave Mr. Babic. You've got to try not to give it a chance to replicate. Please, the word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, to mention the name and name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6758	Dear Chairman, we have here a campaign that is practically free of charge on Serbia's state television service, on the second channel, by some MPs, who want to convince us that there is simply no show of what has been seen, and in recent years there has been no law on the strategic partner, that there was no legal basis to conclude any contract. That's why Sartid was bought out of bankruptcy. Therefore, the ‘C market’ was privatised. That's why "Yugormedia" was bought in a magical way in 2002. That's why we have 24 controversial privatisations that result in 56 defendants, 93 charges filed, 7.7 billion dinars of 24 controversial privatisations, three former ministers arrested, one director of the Privatisation Agency. These are all the results of earlier legislative proposals involving amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6759	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 72 and 72 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6760	It is true that there was no strategic partnership as an option in the previous period, and that is more than true. It doesn't exist yet until this bill is passed. This is why the law is passed so quickly to enforce illegal strategic partnership agreements, for example, in the case of "AIR Serbia". You said yourself that so far you can't do it. Your Prime Minister made that contract and broke the law, and by passing this law, that hole should be covered. It's clear as day, delete article 72.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6761	Mr. Zivkovic, you should have told that to the Prime Minister when he was in the O.R. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 73 and 73 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ( A) What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6762	Article 105. You, the chairman, cannot determine what I should do, whether I had the courage. The fact that the Prime Minister Alexander Vukic appeared to you today and that you're seeing him as a mirage, I've known this man for 20 years and a few years, and no fascination is that he showed up here today. What I asked, I asked. I've been asking questions for half an hour and anyone here who's not mean or stupid, and I know they're good people here, could have... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6763	Mr. Zivkovic, you are insulting the dignity of the National Assembly and you will no longer have the opportunity to speak at this time. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6764	Mr. Chairman, I'm calling for article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. I think it's dignity to show ignorance with intent. “ No one can speak at the meeting of the National Assembly before asking and receiving a word from the president of the National Assembly, ” says article 105. Where's article 105 broken in that? Or some mirage still stayed, so someone thought they'd got the word before he asked for the word. We are not hiding, we are proud of what Alexander Vukic did on the political scene of Serbia. Someone says – unfortunately, but most citizens say – unfortunately we know the promoters of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6765	The word is a folk letter from Gordana Komic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6766	The 27th member has been injured because he is outside the authority of the chairman to comment on the actions of the MPs before the sitting at the time of his chairmanship. I really don't see the need, I understand the motivation, but I ask you best not to bring in that unnecessary spirit by breaking Article 27, which obliges you to take care of the order and explain to any MP what you should have done two and a half or three hours ago at the session of the Assembly. I repeat that it is perfectly understandable that he wants to participate in a game of remarks on what happened during the matter of MPs or not, but at the moment that we are working really hard and committed, I don't already know which 11, 12, 13 hours, when I, too, who no longer have amendments and colleagues who have amendments, show absolutely no gesture of will to violate the Rules of Procedure or to do anything other than respect for the order, I really don't think it is necessary to violate the obligation that he has to take care of the order rather than to produce disorder. I don't want you to plead, this is the most beautiful thing I'm asking you to do, because I really don't think it's necessary, as much as it entertains you for a good reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6767	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 74 and 74 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members of the 75th and the 75th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members 76 and 76 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Articles 77 and 77 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members 78 and of the 78th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members 79 and of the 79th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members of the 80th and of the 80th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6768	Now we have reached chapter 12 of our Privatisation Law, within which there is only one member. He's important to us for two things. One thing we would especially like to inform the public about what it says here, because it concerns bankruptcy reasons. In Article 80, the Agency may submit a proposal to initiate the bankruptcy proceedings of privatisation entities if one of the following bankruptcy reasons is met: failure to carry out operations over a period of more than six months, lack of interest in privatisation, no employees for a period of more than six months, unless a decision on the model and method of privatisation has been taken after the expiry of the period laid down in Article 21 of this Act, if no programme has been adopted because of the non-compliance of creditors in accordance with Article 50 of this Act and in other cases provided for by the Bank Act. Finally, it is added and said – the Agency will submit a proposal to initiate the bankruptcy procedure of the privatisation entity, in the event that the privatisation of the privatisation entity with the majority social capital has not been implemented within the time limit set out in Article 6(2) of this Act. I think it's important, since this bill will be passed, to hear what this Article 80 contains regarding bankruptcy reasons. The second thing I wanted to comment specifically on is our amendment and the explanation of the amendment to Article 80 concerning the amendment and addition of the Bank's Banking Act. I remind you once again that in the voting day, we will vote in favour of this bill despite the fact that one amendment has not been accepted, and we understand and justify the reasons for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6769	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 81 and 81 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6770	Article 81 which is the subject of privatisation and capital which is less than 50% and which is indicated what is applicable and what is not applied by this law in that case. I'd like to get an answer from the minister if there's any means for restitution in this law? The old law envisioned 5% of the privatisation income. Is there one in this law?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6771	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 82 and 82 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members of the 83rd and of the 83rd Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members of the 84th and the 84th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 84 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members 85 and 85 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members of 86th and 86th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Articles 87 and 87 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the 88th and 88th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members 89 and 89 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members of the 90th and of the 90th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members 91st and Article 91st, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members 92 and Article 92 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted to the title above Articles 93 and 93 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6772	This article defines that on the date of entry into force of this law, it ceases to apply the Privatisation Act adopted in 1991 and was amended in 1993, 1995, 1997, 1997, 2010, 2012, 2012 and 2014 twice, once after the Constitutional Court's decision, but remains indicated that it remains in force in Article 11 and the Regulation on the procedure and way of restructuring of privatisation entities, so it is obvious that this law did not end the restructuring. Finally, I think that we can all be satisfied with today's discussion, that we as promoters have the complete satisfaction, because over these few hours, we have managed to achieve more of our goals through these few hours of easy and successful debates. One part was an educational character, the other part was to expose one of the wrong interpretations of this law as a reform prodigy in this area. It's very nice that somewhere in the half of today's debate we heard an interpretation that came from the highest place, or from the minister, that the old law was good, but that it had to be changed because the changed conditions and the atmosphere for the privatisation process in the economic environment in which we are now and that it was necessary to correct the inconsistencies and problems that arose in the implementation of the old law. This was the reason why we thought that this should be addressed, that the adoption of a new law should not be converted, under and, on the other hand, to an estranged wave of quasi by a new law that solves all problems, which was not a minister's position, but those who were engaged in the estrictive propaganda of this law and, on the other hand, to make it clear that the existing law that applied all the authorities here since 2001 was in one part good. Thank you all for your cooperation. Thank you, Minister and his associates, for your cooperation. Thank the viewers who stayed with us until this time of year.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6773	Thank you. On behalf of members 94th and Article 94th of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 94th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 95th and 95th Amendment were jointly appointed by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search, I conclude on the amendments the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you, Mrs. Comic. After your criticism, speakers continued to talk about amendments. We are moving to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6774	At the right time. Otherwise, the boards have finished their part of the job, so we can get back to work in the morning. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the search in particular on the second item of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Dr. Kori Udovici, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and local self-government, and Dr. Dusan Vujovic, Minister of Industry, I have called for the sittings to be attended by Mr. Ivan Matic, assistant director of the Agency for Licensing of Bank Managers and Dr. Branko Radulovic, Prof. University of Belgrade Law School. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Mladen Grujic, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Dr. Blažić, Ivan Karić, Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavić, Dr. Branislav Blažić, Gordana Komić, Borislav Stefanović and Nebojsa Tatomir. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before moving to the search in particular, I remind you that MP Mladen Grujic has writtenly withdrawn amendments proposing the addition of new members 3a, 11a, 12a, 14a, 15a, 25a, 28a, 32a, 43a, 48a, 49a, 49b, 49v and 50a. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected him as the incomplete amendments of MP Mladen Grujic to which he proposed adding new members 1, 1a, 6a, 6b, 12b and 66a. and amendment to Article 68. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6775	Mr. Minister, we have proposed in Article 1 paragraph 1 after the words "or" to add the words "on the register's advertising board and at least one high-pitched daily list distributed across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well" and then goes on to continue the text. In paragraph 2, the words ‘in the public portal of the competent economic court or in another way which allows the public to be informed of the course of bankruptcy proceedings’ are replaced by the words ‘in the commercial court’s advertising or electronic board’. Why did we do this, now I'm going to give you an explanation. The Anti-Corruption Agency held in its opinion on the assessment of the risk of corruption in the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Ireland that in the case of a court providing the relevant registry with a view to the publication of decisions and other acts of the Court, and the register does not have its own website, the manner of publication must be more precise, and not in another appropriate manner, as the proposed text of the law states. This is because solutions and court acts are being delivered for publication so that the public is familiar with these acts. Starting from the Agency’s recommendation and from the fact that it is necessary for the public to get acquainted with these acts and the amendment is proposed to mention the acts published on the register’s advertising board or on at least one high-pitched daily list, but also to allow the possibility to publish acts in another way, because we believe that this way guarantees that the public will be familiar with the content of the act. A decree - a high-level daily paper distributed on the territory of the Republic of Serbia is also used in Article 53. The proposal has also been adopted in this amendment for the sake of linguistic consistency. In the second paragraph of the amendment, a wording of the method of publication with the terminology referred to in Article 1 shall be proposed. Proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6776	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6777	I would like to thank the President. We'll lower our comment here to a purely professional commentary. It is that obviously from the lack of knowledge of professional practice, the amendment promoter did not have in mind that in bankruptcy practice, commercial courts have already applied advertising, especially through the advertising table, and given that the transparency of work of the courts is already represented through electronic means of communication, publishing all data, it is very easy to enter, both in the programme which is available and completely transparent, and in the website of each economic court and obtaining all the information required by this amendment. This amendment is completely excessive from the point of view of judicial, i.e. bankruptcy practices, and I think that the courts have already stepped up one big step in this direction in a positive sense of words and the level of transparency that is required of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6778	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6779	The reason for submitting this amendment was our assessment that the legitimacy of the bankruptcy manager is a little too much militarisation of this function, but after the very clear arguments we heard from Director Ivana Matic we are giving up on this amendment and we accept that the legislation will help bankruptcy managers to come to the documentation that is necessary to create a real picture of the economic operator that they lead to bankruptcy. So we're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6780	Thank you. If that's possible right now. On the 4th amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. We accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6781	Never mind, I'm talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6782	Talk to me if it doesn't matter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6783	I suppose you meant there was no need to comment, and I would like the citizens of Serbia to know what our proposal was, which the government recognized as good and accepted. I thank the government for being so open to suggestions and looking to professionally perfect its law. So, we have proposed in Article 21(1) that, after saying, “who has been legally convicted for” the words are added: “criminal action against economy, against legal traffic, against official duty, as well as for” and the text continues. We believe that it is necessary to specify what crimes these are in the case of whose execution and judicial convictions a person cannot be appointed as a bankruptcy administrator. This was particularly highlighted by the Anti-Corruption Agency in its opinion. Starting with a good legal framework set up for example in the Law on Public Records, we propose to specify criminal acts in a manner expressed in the amendment and thank the Government for understanding and understanding our desire to correct this member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6784	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6785	Thank you, President. In any case, the SPS parliamentary group supports the adoption of such an amendment, but I would only point out one kind of caution from the point of view of bankruptcy practice. This is where the tax crimes that relate to the reason why the bankruptcy administrator should not in any case be licensed. However, such a tax-listing can create one dose of risk. We've limited ourselves to crimes against official duty, legal traffic and business. What about the criminal acts in the field of tax protection, tax evasion and the rest, and so on in bankruptcy? I'm afraid we'll make this a problem for the courts and the judges in particular. I'm in no way against such an amendment being affirmed and accepted, but it seems to me that this sort of list of criminal acts can be counterproductive and risky about court practice, as far as the possibility of being in a position to choose a bankruptcy manager and then we have a leprosy of crimes. What if he was convicted of a felony, assuming, of course, theft of copyright? So what do we do? So we have a lot of situations that are undefined here, and in bankruptcy practice they can appear. I therefore urge my colleague Matic, however, to address this legal situation through sublegal acts, and this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6786	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dr Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The 6th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 6th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6787	Article 6 of the Amending and Supplemental Act deals with the licenses of bankruptcy managers. Our proposal was to issue licences to bankruptcy managers for a limited duration, as in this way persons who did not meet the requirements for the renewal of the licence have been denied this right after three years. The intention was to have a license to, regardless of whether there will ever be chambers in this sector or not, whether there will be a professional association or not, that you simply have some kind of mechanism that you are sure that bankruptcy managers, those who want to be, are in the best shape for the job. I'm sorry this amendment wasn't accepted. The next amendment I have made, the promoter has accepted, it is our intention that the two-thirds majority vote's assembly of creditors make decisions, as we thought best to protect corporate confidence interests in bankruptcy. I am pleased to have the same attitude, given that this amendment to Article 13 which deleted attitude 7 has been accepted, and has become an integral part of the bill. This is the last amendment to which we take part in the discussion of amendments and additions to the bankruptcy law. I'd love to, since I know how complicated the process of passing the law on bankruptcy is and how much harder it is to apply it, I'd like it to be applied from the bottom of my heart. I am not on committees that will directly monitor and monitor those applying the law, but I am on the Committee on European Integration. This topic is one of the serious segments that we are dealing with, and I believe that the Government, as a promoter, and I as a applicant, have fulfilled our task.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6788	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6789	Thank you, President. Now I have just been encouraged by my colleague, Comic, to urge me again to consider seriously the possibility of adopting a law on bankruptcy managers, taking into account these requirements that are now being highlighted, as well as those that I highlighted in the principle debate. The only thing I can't agree with is that I can't agree on a license, given two reasons. The first reason in bankruptcy practice is doubtless, which is that the work of bankruptcy managers is constantly being followed. Why? Because he's a bankruptcy judge and how he owes and how he's obliged to control his work. This is no reason for ridicule, this is the truth, that's what I do. Therefore, he is also obliged to monitor the work of the bankruptcy manager and to decide, according to complaints and complaints, on any complaint against the work of the bankruptcy manager. These complaints, thank God, there are also many in bankruptcy practice, especially from the point of view of protecting the interests of creditors, as well as other creditors, whose complaints are decided exclusively by a bankruptcy judge. In addition, the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants had continuity in monitoring the work of bankruptcy managers and in other ways, through the submission of the report, because these reports are by me and how significant for the functioning, both of the bankruptcy managers, both in bankruptcy cases and the monitoring of the work by the institution to be in charge. Whether it will remain the Licensing Agency, or it will transform itself, is now another issue and question for a special legal act. But in any case, there's no reason to be disappointed, because whoever gets the license has to show maximum quality of work, and the even burden of deploying objects to bankruptcy managers will only show that they will all be engaged to the extent that they deserve it with their own quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6790	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The 7th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6791	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Appreciateing your time, I'm not going to read the entire proposal from the government, but just the text of our amendment, our proposal. Therefore, Article 7 paragraph 5 of the newly proposed position 7 is amended and reads - serious violations of the duties of the bankruptcy administrator are considered to be an act against Article 27(1) to 19), and minor infringements are considered to be non-compliance with the duties of the bankruptcy administrator established by this law except for the duties laid down in Article 27(1) point (1) to (9) to (9) of Article 19). The proposed amendment legally provides for easier and more serious violations of the duties of the bankruptcy administrator, since this substance is otherwise legal matter and does not need to be regulated by lower legal acts. The Anti-Corruption Agency has recommended that a solution to the proposal to which the minister is closer regulates what is more difficult and which makes it easier to change the duties so that the matter is regulated by law. The proposed amendment meets the Agency's recommendations, also provides for a higher level of legal certainty. I hope Mr. Secretary will consider accepting our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6792	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade and Tourism and Energy did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6793	In addition to the report on the economic and financial position of the creditor, the creditor has an obligation to make an analysis of the business of the creditor before the bankruptcy procedure is launched, and for a period of five years, that is, for a shorter period if the creditor operates less than five years. The government has rejected this amendment with an explanation that a bankruptcy administrator who assumes the duties of a creditor often finds the situation that there is no documentation in a creditor, so it is impossible to analyse the business of a creditor for a period of five years. Also in companies classified as micro-economic companies without significant business changes, the question of the purpose of this solution is raised. In addition, according to the Government's explanation, national standard No 3 which regulates the drawn up reports of the creditor on the economic financial position of the creditor, paragraph 6) it is regulated that the creditor is obliged to enter in the report the basic data on the creditor who, among other things, contains data on the existing and previous equity structure as a historical demonstration of the creditor's financial operations for the period prior to the opening of the bankruptcy. We believe that this argument is contradictory because the first part states that the bankruptcy administrator often does not detect documentation based on which he could draw up a report, and the second part states that the report should be made up and that it should contain a historical picture of the creditor's financial operations for the period before the bankruptcy is opened. In the first place, we want to point out that the situation in which a creditor does not possess the documentation he would have to possess cannot be an argument that one of these obligations and the obligation of a creditor to make an analysis. If national standard number 3 is already regulated, the bankruptcy manager shall make up a historical representation of the financial operations of the debtor. We don't see why this standard wouldn't be established as a rule of law. Also, this term is a historical display of financial operations is quite general and we thought that the term of the five-year business analysis is a better term and that it fulfils the purpose better than the historical display of financial operations and we call on the government to consider our arguments once again and yet accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6794	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6795	I'll do it very briefly. I must fully support the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Proposer, noting that it was obvious that the amendmentr had no insight into bankruptcy practice and resorted to such an amendment. Indeed, there are a huge number of cases, over 90% of cases where bankruptcy managers find themselves in a situation where when they enter the property of a creditor they find nothing. So, no single accounting document, no single paper, no single data, and then what do they have? They have conjecture and something that implies the possibility of obtaining documentation that is completely inadequate, or incomplete. It comes to some kind of restitution. What's the point? The essence of the bankruptcy manager's work is to perform the restitution of the case as far as possible on the basis of available data and available documentation, to do so in a shorter period of time and that the economic and financial report which presents the trustees is of such nature that, on the basis of the tax balance, the tax situation in the tax administration, as it will come to that data, can also be collected, notified of the insolvency and insolvency of the creditor. In this way, the creditors will have a clear insight into the creditor's financial situation, so this period of five years is completely inappropriate and inadequate, and I agree with some of the termological problems that counterpart Marko Djurisic has raised. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6796	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The 13th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Dr Branislav Blazic submitted to the 45th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Dr. Blažje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6797	This amendment concerns the prevention of conflicts of interest with an independent expert who follows the implementation of the reorganisation plan, and we have proposed, unlike the Government, that this person who cannot be employed by a debtor, the trustee, which does not recognise this proposal, and a person who is connected to a creditor, or trustee in the sense of this law, as well as a person not linked to a creditor or trustee within the meaning of this law. Our idea is that in addition to the government's proposal, which only speaks of a possible conflict of interest between an independent expert and a creditor, to establish this relationship with the trustee. The government argues that it is difficult to establish this link with all the credentials, and we think that this is possible and that there is no major obstacle to establishing this, and that this would reduce the possibility of conflicts of interest and certain biases of the work of independent professionals to follow the implementation of the reorganisation plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-31-0.u6798	Members of the 51st Amendment were together submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Slobodan Homen, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 68th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Nebojsa Tatomir. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. I thank the minister and his associates for today's work. Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 113 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Dubravka Filipovski. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have also called for the session to be attended by Saša Mirković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and Information, Snezana Pečenčić, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Culture and Information and Dejan Stojanović, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Culture and Information. Just to let you know that I'm no longer in a position to receive any changes as far as authorised representatives are concerned. So the procedure is very clear and I'm not able to change it this time. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Gordana Komić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dragomir Karić, Zlata Đerić, Boris Stefanović, Zoran Živković, Vladimir Pavić, Milorad Stošić, Dr Blažje Bradić, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamović, Riza Halimi, Šajip Kamberi, Nenad Canak, Olena Papug, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojšić, Dejan Čapo, Aida Ćorović, Jovan Jovanovic, Dragan Šutanovic, Goran Šutanovic, Goran Babic, Zoran Babic, Momić, Momo Člaković, Vesna Marjanović. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, if the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs : Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović and Goran Bogdanovic. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the city: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you go, Stefanovic. Otherwise, let me tell you, I'm absolutely right and I know what you're going to say. Here you go. I know what you're gonna say, but I can't see through my fingers every time.
