ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, by amendment to Article 10. We tried to harmonise the travel documents law, namely to point out that these provisions need to be brought into line with the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, which states in Article 1 that the citizen of the Republic of Serbia has the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia. Harmonisation is also needed with Article 8 of this Law, or the Law on Travel Documents, which says the passport is a public document issued to the citizen of the Republic of Serbia. However, in practice today, we have a completely different situation where "the state of the Republic of Serbia" which is foreseen by law is recorded as "nationality Serbian". Therefore, no law mentions the term "Serbian citizenship" or "Serbian citizen", as such term unequivocally associates and refers to nationality. It is particularly unacceptable that the term "Serbian citizenship" or "Serbian citizen" stands in the travel documents issued to Bosniaks or members of other national minorities. As I have pointed out several times and I will repeat once again, the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia is a precise term, does not penetrate nationality, and is primarily defined by the Law on Citizenship and the Law on Travel Documents. That's where the amendment is headed. There is still time for these amendments to be adopted in order to focus its application on how the law defines it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3134	Thank you, Mr. Imamovic. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Sabina Dizdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3135	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Honorable Ministers, the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities in Article 11 requires that public documents be issued in the languages of national minorities, and that official records and personal data collections are also kept in the languages of national minorities. The same right of members of national minorities is also prescribed in Article 11. The law on official use of language and letter. In Article 2. The travel documents law shall be defined as a public document, creating a commitment to the State to comply with the above-mentioned legal provisions of the issue and in the language of the national minorities in official use. These amendments to the provisions of the Law on travel documents are in line with the provisions of the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters and confirmed international documents. The aim of this amendment is to increase the degree of exercise of the rights of members of national minorities guaranteed by domestic and international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3136	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With this amendment to Article 13, we also tried to bring this bill into line with another applicable law, in this case the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities, the Law on the Rights and Freedoms of National Minorities, as well as the Law on Administrative Procedure. Namely, members of 6. It is prescribed that the procedure for issuing travel documents is subject to the General Administrative Procedure Act, and Article 21(1) of the same Act requires that travel documents be issued by application, because the party is then in fact initiating administrative proceedings, and in accordance with Article 113. The General Administrative Procedure Act. Therefore, the Administrative Procedure Act further states in Article 16(1) that the administrative procedure is conducted in the language and letter of national minorities in areas in which the language and letter of a specific national minority is officially used. I will take an example of Novi Pazar, where, apart from Serbian and Cyrillic letters, he is in official use of both Bosnian and Latin letters. However, when it comes to communication between citizens with state authorities with public authority, especially in the launch of an administrative procedure such as the issuing of travel documents, there is no possibility of launching such a procedure in the Bosnian language. Therefore, citizens are not even able to initiate the procedure, so they cannot end the administrative process of obtaining travel documents in their native language and letter. That is where other problems arise regarding travel documents patterns, i.e. the problem for them to be published in both the Bosnian language and the Latin letter. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the identical provisions are also contained in Article 11(4). The Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. So I invite you, as I said the last time, it's not too late for these amendments to be adopted. I call upon you to think carefully, for these are the possibilities that allow the Constitution and the applicable laws of this country. Our amendments are just going in this direction to give the Assembly and these laws that we are making to those laws that are already in force in the Republic of Serbia and those rights, individual and collective, which give the laws and constitution of this country to members of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3138	I thank Mr. Imamovic. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments with the correction together were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted this amendment with a correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3139	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about an extremely important amendment, because it concerns direct issues and respect for human rights. I don't think anything should be controversial or the ruling majority or Mr. Minister's adoption of this amendment. What exactly is this about? According to EU standards, fingerprints and signatures of persons under the age of 12 are not collected. It's not a dispute and it's a good paper in this law. Unfortunately, so far in our practice, individual police administrations have acted differently and have not taken fingerprints or signatures of children under the age of 12 and are somewhere. This led to a certain face base that was younger than 12 years old, the base of their fingerprints and signatures. Since the law does not allow this kind of database to be created and this kind of data is collected, our amendment is very simple to delete from the archive all these data that have been collected so far, because otherwise the police will violate human rights, they will violate the Personal Data Protection Act. We don't think there's any reason for the government to refuse this amendment. I invite you and Mr. Minister to accept the amendment, as well as the National Assembly, simply delete the data that the state collects, which it does not have the right to collect, because the faces are younger than 12 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3140	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dizdarevic and Enis Imamovic together submitted to the 20th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted this amendment with a correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Sabina Dizdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3141	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters in Article 11(3) and the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities in Article 11(4), stipulate that the official use of the language and letters of national minorities implies, inter alia, the issue of public documents and the keeping of official records from the personal data collection in the languages of national minorities and the acceptance of those documents in languages as necessary. As such a member of the law is governed by the keeping of records, it is necessary to comply with those laws and to enable the equal use of the language and letters of national minorities in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3142	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3143	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting for this amendment and I'd like to make a few points. I think it is perfectly understandable that the government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected this amendment, but I would also like to clarify some things because of the citizens of Serbia. I have a document in my hand that we're talking about. passport or passport, according to the Croatians, or "passport" as the English say, is irrelevant. The document was written ahead with the Cyrillic, on the front, which is a member of Serbia's 10th Constitution, which says it is officially used in the Republic of Serbia by the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. Since the document represents a state of Serbia abroad, it is neither Novi Pazar nor Sjenica nor Tutin, but represents the Republic of Serbia in which the Serbian language is officially used. It means it's totally in accordance with the law. If we turn the page where the data is, it's a concession, so instead of Cyrillic, it's written in Latin, which I think is quite fine, given that in many countries people can't read Cyrillic and write our names and last names. Now I wonder, what of this data should be written in Bosniak? Is the name and last name expressed differently in Bosniak language than in Serbian? Is citizenship different in Bosniak than in Serbian? Where it is also published, a passport issued by the Serbian Republic's MUP or certain cities is also not said otherwise. So, I think this amendment is one more political pamphlet, not an amendment that should change the law. I would like the Bosniaks to explain to us what is not written in their language in the travel document they are using in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3144	Dr. Nebojsa Stefanovic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3145	I just want to explain one more thing that I think the MPs need to know. When making travel documents, the Republic of Serbia ratified both in this parliament and as standard 9303, which committed itself to bringing its travel documents into line with EU standards. It was Parliament's decision. So, the MUP has an obligation to define and type in this biometric passport in a certain way everything that stands in the passport. It is a document whose content, appearance and data entry are consistent with this international standard and mail in international standards in legal order above domestic legislation, we are obliged to respect those international standards. Of course, as I told everyone, everything you think we can fix, unfortunately we couldn't accept this, because it would practically violate the standards that we have ratified ourselves in this House. All that you think we are able to fix and all that you think we can do in the future, as we have seen when we have brought these amendments and amendments to the law, I call on you to really work together and it is in our interest that all standards and all the rights of all the people in this country are maximum protection. Believe me, nobody bothers at all, at least in this government, what will it say in your passport. We wanted you to be satisfied, but there are standards that we have to respect, and only because of that is the refusal of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3146	I thank Dr. Stefanovic. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'd like to read Section 2. The Constitution in Article 10, which states that the official use of other languages and letters is governed by law and based on the Constitution. So in the Republic of Serbia there is an official use of the Bosnian language and letter, it is in official use in all the cities of Sandzak, in official use in Novi Pazar, that is the example I cited. I said that these administrative procedures that are in motion are impossible to run on an official basis, i.e. in Bosnian language and letter. A colleague was quoted by only the first member, so I'm clear to supplement what the Constitution says, that we don't choose from the Constitution what we like without throwing out what we don't like. As for the standard, the minister mentioned something, and the standard when we talk about citizenship, and unfortunately I didn't get an answer, I didn't even get the government's opinion when it comes to the amendment that treats the citizenship. Therefore, the law clearly states and citizenship is defined as issuing citizenship to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not Serbian citizenship, so it is a practice to write under the authority of citizenship – Serbian citizenship. So this is about amendments that bring these provisions into line with the applicable laws, they agree with the Constitution of this country. We're not looking for anything that's out of the Constitution and out of the law of this country, but what it says here. We ask that the laws do not conflict with each other and we ask that they are in harmony with each other, because the laws we bring here should be as they are and should be in force on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3148	Just a notice that the government's opinion has arrived and it is just multiplying on the MPs and will be divided before the vote. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3149	This is about an amendment that I have discussed with Mr Djurisic, and for me, a fundamental amendment is acceptable, however, we have discovered one legal error. The legal error is that, in fact, by a member of the Penal Code, the 355th falsification of the document listed in the amendment is actually a criminal offence. Here in the amendment that you have submitted, it says: “Whoever amends, deletes or otherwise forgers personal data that have been entered and electronically entered into the travel document, or alters, deletes or otherwise forgeries notes and tags, shall be punished in violation. ” So, just to comply with our country's legal standard and not to get into it, I asked the board today to submit an identical amendment to your amendment, only to throw out this part that it's a crime, and we accept this amendment. This amendment of the Committee is just a technical reason, otherwise I accepted your amendment to punish between 5,000 and 150,000 dinars, agreed at a session where we discussed in principle and I accept in this respect that part of the text of the amendment, and this is only legal harmonisation, just so you know it's a legal reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3150	I thank Dr Stefanovic. The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3151	I thank you for accepting the amendments. I think it's important that when laws are passed, they are brought into line with other regulations, because it creates one serious whole of the legal system in our country. Thanks again and that'll be it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3152	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been tabled by the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs on Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda from this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint on 13 June 2014, Friday, starting at 12.15 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-13-0.u3153	Dear People's MPs, before we move to decision-making on the agenda points of this session, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 148 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF CONSUMER PROTECTION Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft consumer protection law to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, no one, with abstentions, voted 14 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments submitted by the MPs: together Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic to the article. 1, 2, 26 and 136; Dr Blagoje Bradić and Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic in the same text as Article 3; together Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic on Article 13 and Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic on Article 160. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted the 3rd amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 167 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 170 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 168 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. MP Veseinovic, until now, it has not been the custom to share synopsiss for voting with the heads of parliament's groups. Just to get into the record. The other heads of parliament don't have that. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. We're in the voting process now. Otherwise, it's a direct transmission and citizens are watching what we do and how we behave in the O.R. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 168 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 166 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have submitted an amendment to Article 30. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, no one, with abstentions, voted 24 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have submitted an amendment to Article 109. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, no one, with abstentions, voted 18 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have tabled an amendment to Article 112. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, no one, with abstentions, voted 18 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted the amendment to Article 124. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163, no one, with abstentions, voted 13 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted the amendment to Article 128. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted the amendment to Article 133. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 167 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 134th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 137th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 168 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 138th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Aleksandar Senic submitted the amendment to Article 139. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic together submitted the 141st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 168 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 168 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 156, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against -one, with abstention - there is no vote of 160 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to Article 163 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -17, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 160 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill on consumer protection, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 159 against - no one, with abstentions - voted 18 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on consumer protection. The second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Electronic Communications Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -153, v - eight abstentions - no, 17 of the 178 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments of the People's MPs Katarina Rakic to the members of 6th and 9th and Marijan Rističević that a new member of 13a is added after Article 13. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 4th amendment, together with the correction, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 165 of the 178 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -17, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 161 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic submitted the 20th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 170 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -17, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 161 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 170 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 165 of the 178 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The proposaler's representative accepted the amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 150, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 28 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, in general. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: -158, v - nine, abstention - did not vote 11 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications. Third item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing Law on postal services Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on postal services, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 136, against - seven, abstentions - no, 35 of the total of 178 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -15, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 162 of the 177 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 176 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Post Office Services, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – seven abstentions – 12 of the 177 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: 17 of the 176 MPs present did not vote for – 158, against – one abstention. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 173 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – three abstentions – 173 of the 177 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – no, 175 of the 177 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 164 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment, with a correction. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two abstentions – there is no, 174 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 166 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been tabled by the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs on Article 23 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted 16 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – one abstention – there is no vote, 19 of the 177 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the motion for a decision, we are moving to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in the multinational operations in 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, no one, abstentioned – one, voted three out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, we move on to a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 174, no one, abstentioned – one, voted one of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014.
