ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30938	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the session of the First Extraordinary National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 104 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Vuk Jeremic and Mladen Grujic. According to Article 86(2) and Article 87(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, especially for Saturday, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the motion for a decision on the agenda of the session as soon as possible. The legal basis for calling this session is contained in Article 109(7). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 52 The Law on the National Assembly, according to which the National Assembly, in the event of a disbandment, conducts ongoing or urgent tasks, particularly resolving the mandated immunity issues. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014, which was convened at the request of 111 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 249 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request for the maintenance of the First Extraordinary Session in 2014, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see that the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014 was determined by the following: D n e n e d d 1 Proposal for a decision to approve detention and conduct criminal proceedings against MP Dragan Tomic, who was tabled by the Committee for the mandated and mandated-immunity issues of the National Assembly. We're going to work on the agenda. For this item of the agenda, you have received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, with a proposal for a decision to approve detention and conduct criminal proceedings. Before opening a single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and as if this time were allocated to parliamentary groups apronly to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. According to Article 96(3), The MP of the National Assembly shall be appointed by the MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement by up to three participants in the debate who have the right to speak every once to five minutes. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and Immunity Affairs, MP Zoran Babic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30939	President, vice presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are on a state holiday meeting with this unhappiness. At the beginning, I would like to say that LDP MPs will vote for a decision to abolish MP Tomic's immunity. What is particularly important to us at this time and for that I am also speaking at this session is the fact that we are in an election campaign and I think it is important for the country today to send a message from parliament that we are a serious institution, that we will not abuse such things in the election campaign, and on the other hand, a message to citizens that this country is finally a necessary order. The problem that we have this session today and why we are abolishing the immunity of Mr. Tomic is, in fact, stemming from the bad organisation of the system. This is not just about individual, wrong or conflicting behavior, I guess or I'm sure we won't even get into it today, it will be decided by the judicial authorities and they will ultimately decide whether there is a fault or not, but it is our role to tell citizens that in those sensitive areas, and this issue also concerns the issues of functioning of the economic system, the banking system, and then the everyday lives of citizens. There must be no kind of uncertainty, no threat. I think it would be irresponsible for anyone to consider this procedure only as a matter of individual or individual case or individual procedure. Serbia's economy, Serbia's economy, and then finance in the country have been at risk for many years now by a catastrophic system organisation, a catastrophic economic situation, a catastrophic economic situation. I think we're all less or more aware today. What is ahead of us, and I think that all political parties and in this assembly of parliament, and I hope that this will be in that assembly of parliament that will be established after the March 16th elections, must do much more to change the system. That there are much less policies in the economy, that there are much less policies in the economy, that the financial sector and the banking sector that are at present, even in this state, may be the last cornerstone of stability in this country, are not in any way threatened. We are a country that has been through the terrible experiences of the 1990s, a country that has had serious problems in these sectors since 2000, and I think that among the citizens of this country it may be one of the biggest fears, fear of instability in the financial and banking system. Over the past year or a year and a half, we've been through a couple of banks. It is clear that the problems were related to the management system. It is clear that the problem with some previous banks was because the state was through its authorised representatives, and above all through politicians involved in the banking sector. In this situation, it was somehow a kind of policy again, and for this reason today I am not talking about criminal issues and criminal responsibility. I'm talking about the need to establish a system where we won't come into these situations. Other countries also have problems with the banking and economic sectors, but nowhere have these problems been so directly linked to policy-making, with the situation that the unsustainable economic situation in some way and has been embellished and falsified for some time by the existence of unsustainable lending, financing and disposal of inevitable market outcomes or results. So, of course, I will not use all the time available to me as a representative of the Liberal Democratic Party parliamentary group. Once again, a message and a request to all colleagues and political parties that this case is not being abused for election purposes, but that we all learn from what was happening in this case, which is happening with Universal Bank, with what previously happened with Vojvodina Development Bank, with some other banking systems. In that case, it doesn't matter if we're the government or the opposition. We have to act equally in one situation and another and because today everyone in this country is looking at us and at the banking system. Those losses that are made due to irresponsible functioning are paid either through the budget, as has already happened in the case of several banks, or by being threatened as bank clients. I think we need to ask institutions that are competent to control the financial and banking sector, above all the NBS, to behave more responsibly and more seriously in similar situations. It is everyone's responsibility, especially to the NBS to react on time in these situations, that in situations where months and in public talk about the problems that exist in one bank or the problems that have caused some of the companies that are in financial problems, then with themselves the wolf and the banks that are their creditors, to react on time. Now maybe for this case late. Now we're campaigning, so every move is interpreted as part of the campaign. In addition to speaking for 30 or 40 days and travelling through Serbia, there are 30 more banks in Serbia, there are seven million citizens who are clients of various banks, there are seven million citizens in Serbia who depend on these banks, and I call on all of you to, once again, make a decision today on the abolition of immunity, to leave to the judicial authorities to do their job, and that all those in their posts in these 30 or 40 days until the elections are also doing their job so that we do not face a similar situation in another part of the financial, banking or economic sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30940	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30941	I've been waiting to see if any of the promoters will pick up. I'm so sorry about that. I must say, on behalf of the DS, that our national holiday has begun very symbolically, by arresting the MP, and it is the true face of this regime. The assembly is put in a pocket in this situation. The Management Board decided without complete documentation. A certain police officer has assessed whether anyone has the right or not to be immune. The Democratic Party will vote to remove MP Tomic's immunity. That's not controversial. But we are obliged to explain to the citizens of Serbia and this Assembly what is really going on here. In fact, I think it's a complete scandal that in the pre-election campaign in propaganda, the SNS marketing with the desire to put on a cape and to camuflate what's next, which is the arrest of DS members, as Laufer reports to us these days, I think that's something that's necessary to tell citizens, not to talk about the stability of the banking system. Gentlemen, did you get your "Agrobank" today? Did you get your "Vojvodine Development Bank" today? Was there one of those arrests from those DS banks? It's not. Who are the people arrested at Universal Bank? One man, an SNS MP? Who put him in that place? Who put these people in the Universal Bank? You put party personnel in a private bank. Will someone answer that question to the citizens of Serbia – how is it possible and is it normal? Why hasn't Mr. Djelitovic been arrested? How can you arrest one without arresting another? Who's the man who put them in that bank? What's this man's name? Is this man responsible for this? Are you aware that Serbian citizens are today wondering if there are any government deposits there? Did your forced interim five-headed branch in Belgrade put the funds of Belgrade City in Universal Bank a few days ago? Are you going to answer that or are you just expecting to raise your hand here because some police officer estimated that the Assembly doesn't have to ask questions? He knows best, so we'll wipe out your executive authority's mess. It is a shame for Serbian parliamentarianism and it is a shame for this assembly and it shows that you want to destroy one branch of government and subdue it to another. Immunity is not invented to protect Tomic or Dulic or anyone who feels better, but to protect the Assembly from the will of the executive authority, and you just did it with this case. Now you're going to tell us - we've arrested the advancer and then for months from making a story, and you won't explain to the citizens who put him there, where he's from in a private bank, where that bank goes on the fast line, as Vucic says, so he gives credit to your partners from the authorities who are now waiting to be arrested, so Percevic says - that I borrowed from everyone, what does it matter, I was liquid when this government was made, so Đurić says - I supported Vukic, which you now arrest me. It's your internal divorce case. Mr. Tomic is a man who is very close to Tomislav Nikolic and in this situation he paid the price of some of your internal considerations. You can nod all you want. We have here heard from Mr. Tomic that the yellows have ruined the banking system and now you expect the Democrats to come and shut up and raise their hand. You won't be watching that movie. I think it is very important why you are doing this in the middle of the campaign, why your people in the management bodies of the bank have not previously pointed out irregularities, why there is no question – how it is possible for SNS members to sit in a private bank that has credited the SNS in the campaign, where one of the shareholders was Miroslav Miskovic, your archine friend. Your archenemy gave you money, so you arrested him, so you let him go to London, so the world supports you strongly in reforms. All ambassadors come to Miskovic's reception. How do you explain that? Is that possible? There were no Democrats. There weren't any of you either, but there were good friends of yours there. So, how is it possible and why is it that a member of the Management Board and the Audit Committee of the "Universal Bank" co-ordinator of the SNS Economic Council, Mr. Milenko Dželtovic has not been detained? How is that possible? How is it possible for this man, despite your promised departmentalisation of public enterprises, to sit at the same time and at the position of the financial director of Telecom, a member of the Management Board of the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade, a member of the “Smederevo” Assembly? Is there somewhere else to sit? He can't possibly from Cynthia Little. He's got more room. How could a member of the Committee on Audit, the first among the SNS experts in the area, say, except for Mr Arsic, who was unfairly declared here, not notice what was going on in the bank, and the shareholders of the bank warned the NBS a year ago? So I'm not talking in my head. The man, this Mr. Divjan, came out and said – I said, send a memo, do everything right, and the National Bank didn't react. Why? They want a group of MPs to answer that? What is the responsibility of the governor of the National Bank? Are you saying there's no responsibility at all? If there isn't, prove there's no responsibility. How does the person who runs the National Bank and who is once again the frozen deputy president of SNS, Mrs Tabakovic, know that the NBS, the National Bank of Serbia, not the SNS, is the only one empowered to oversee banks? Did she do her job? It's not. No, so what would you do? Energy Minister, environmentals don't control the water in Serbia. What would she be monitoring the bank's work? Oh, my God, she's being led by forwarders. What would she be watching? So we arrest one, and the other we don't. Then you will say – institutions are doing their job. I agree. We're for anyone who breaks the law to answer. But these things, my people, they're very hard to explain to the citizens. You do it in a campaign with a desire for your call from Nis to be translated into some kind of policy, and politics is nowhere to be found. Empty shell and promise of arrest. What happens, I speculate, if Tomic is released? It doesn't matter. It'll be after the campaign. What happens to this institution tomorrow, if someone is responsible and arrested, because some cop estimates he doesn't have that immunity? It's a shame. It's a bigger shame for the congregation than the term I used. Think about it. Tomorrow, any one of you can do it. It's just a question of whether Mr. Wolfie's going to assess whether or not that's going to raise his rating. You are otherwise a party that is abundant in possible situations suitable for the Serbian Progressive Party rating. That shows exactly this case. Think about what this means. I'm not talking about whether Tomic is guilty or not, that's what the court will determine. We'll vote to remove Tomic's immunity. But below each level, below the level of sustainability of the Serbian Parliament's institution, to do it this way, in the middle of an election campaign, and you think we come here for ten minutes, on a state holiday, while the army fires floats on Calemegdan, that Serbia is bound by arrest, another and that's what you say - ours. Is this a message to this nation, which has no business, which is increasingly hungry? You're just gonna do your ratings. That's all you know. I would ask someone to answer me - is there a deposit of local self-government and state "Universal Bank"? What's going to happen to those deposits? Do either of you have an answer to that and whether any of you know how to answer one of these questions without saying what you did after what you did? You will have to tell someone else from this day forward. What is important, I think it is absolutely clear that there is a suspicion that this was absolutely done for the purpose of promoting Alexander Vukic and the SNS in the campaign, that this was done in the middle of the campaign, that this was done in an illegal way, that the Administrative Committee had not received the documentation, that you had called the MPs as members of your main committee to come to the state holiday, to raise their hand on one of you, and all of this with a goal, dear citizens, as Laufer reported to us, which you are going to arrest the yellow ones for the next days, because you like to do so, so that you can say – we have arrested ours. But keep an eye on that weapon. It's your boomerang, gentlemen. You've hit it hard. You're telling people now how you might lose the election, so now you're getting a little stronger, you're dressing up. A little try to answer these questions – what are deposits, who is responsible, who has put, what about Dželitovic, what was Jorgenka Tabakovic doing? That's what you'd tell us here today, not to distract Serbia and lie to her uninterrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30942	Before I give my word to Mr Babic, since you said that during the course of some of the committees of the National Assembly there were illegal actions, I ask you to address the competent state authorities as quickly as possible with this, so that we can determine whether that is the case, because it is a serious accusation. We hope that you will address the court as urgently as possible, because it is important that this case is properly considered and determined whether there have been illegal actions or not, to show that what you said was truly meant. Mr. Grandmother, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30943	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this day is a difficult day for the SNS, but we also want to show on this case that the law is the same for everyone. I am sorry that he was not heard and listened to the proposal of fellow Djuric, who was collegiate, who was correct and that this time and that this National Assembly was spent during the election campaign for the stands. I see that a colleague who used to say that he was getting a smaller and smaller round of applause, probably that this sage lasted, so he wouldn't even get more for the attitudes he's making. I don't want to, and I don't have the right to be a prosecutor, or a lawyer, or a judge, and a former colleague spoke as a judge, a class as a prosecutor, and most of the time as a lawyer. What burned my ears, I will try not to answer any more of the nonsense that has been put forward, is a dangerous thesis that the laws of a country should not apply at the time of the election campaign, because, for God's sake, if the laws apply, if the people who have sinned against the law are being prosecuted, that is for the purpose of the election campaign. The laws in Serbia will apply to all, regardless of the party book they have, regardless of the amount of money they have, regardless of the friends they have, regardless of the ownership in the media they have or in the advertising space in the media, and this is a newspaper compared to the period of DS rule, when it was only a party book and no one will answer. Unlike the period when your members destroyed both the economy and the banks, I repeat, there has never been a procedure before, and now it bothers you when the law of the Republic of Serbia is respected. We don't decide who gets arrested, decides politics, or orders, or prevents. That's what the prosecution does, that's what the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia do if we want to, and we want to be organized and a normal state. The Management Board sat down two nights ago on the basis of a request from the prosecution, based on complete documentation and unanimously made a proposal for a decision that is today ahead of us. There is no doubt either, because the decision was taken unanimously, that it was brought against the law, against the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, that is nonsense and insinuation. In this way we send a message to all, primarily to people in Serbia, but also to the world, that Serbia is changing and that no one in Serbia is protected, regardless of whether it is our friends, whether it is party colleagues, as it was in the case of DS rule. Whether Dragan Tomic is guilty or not, the judiciary will decide and will not deal with the SNS and should not deal with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Because of our children, due to the future, Serbia must become a normal state, Serbia must become a decent state, citizens cannot endure further robbing Serbia, whoever is behind the robbery. With the same strength we are fighting organised crime and corruption, as we will fight for the start of the economy and for new jobs. Everyone who crashed, and I see Serbs, whoever stood behind that robbery. With the same strength we are fighting organised crime and corruption, as we will fight for the start of the economy and for new jobs. All those who have collapsed, and I see that there are certain suspicions and a certain fear, all who have destroyed Serbia for years and thrown it on their knees, must respond. A hell of a chain of political, crime and tycoon ties in Serbia must once and for all stop, in order to become a prosperous state, to become a normal state, to become the state the citizens of Serbia want, which the SNS wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30944	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30945	Mr. Granny, maybe there's something I wasn't clear about. I am grateful that both you and Mr Stefanovic have provided answers to a few questions about the Committee's work. However, you do not seem to notice one extreme illogicality. I know you have a certain Mr. Mesko. Mr. Mesco, who studied at Oxfords, "chembridges" and sold grapes. But you should know that the moment you call upon the Administrative Board a man is in custody. That's why you're devising the Assembly. You're putting her in a position to act as posteriors. Because you're in office of the executive authority insulting the Serbian Parliament, you're putting her in a position that we're your Board of Justice, who has no idea what she's doing. It's you, Mr. Granny. I'm asking you nicely. Let it go - we'll go tycoon. First, all the tycoons are with you today. There's one that doesn't seem to be there for you, and you're dealing with him. Here you are, as the people say. Go with him, but he gave you money for the campaign, not for us. What are you giving us now? The other thing is, you didn't answer my question about Jeltovic. Greota, a man sits there waiting to hear what you're going to do to him. Say it for him. Tell me about Perčević. Say it for the future government, because of the prime minister who says-- I'm going to kick your ass. Say it for him, not for us. Let's hear it. You know what, freedom dies with thunderous applause, Mr. Granny. It's an old saying. Maybe you haven't heard of her. The other saying, that I may teach you, is, "Do not laugh at those who look up at you when you climb up, because you will meet them when you go down." That's what's waiting for you, very quickly, long before you think. What you have not answered me is what is the responsibility of the supervisory board and is there an executive supervisory function of the National Bank and the frozen SNS Vice President, Jorgenka Tabakovic? Are you going to answer, not to me, but to Mr. Divjan, who is the shareholder of that bank? It's a private bank. Guys, you run a private bank, give the money to who you think you're thinking of, and then you call on us to decide your inner problems. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30946	Thank you. The replica was answered by Mr. Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30947	It's nice when someone admits that Mr. Miskovic, against whom the judiciary is in the process, I don't want to go in or comment on that procedure, I'm not a lawyer, but I know so much from a very lawyer, a previous speaker, but it's good that you admitted that the tycoon is with you. But there's another tycoon leading you, which is with a slightly smaller bank account that was acquired at the time of the DS rule. As for Mr Cvetanovic, it is a respected colleague, a SNS member of the SNS presidency, Mesko Cvetanovic is a member of the SNS presidency and a man who beat the DS in Leskovac to his feet, who has the highest confidence of the people in Leskovac. However, there are many questions and it is easy when questions are asked, but we have not been given an answer to the question -- how is it possible in a regulated country, such a bright country, in such a normal country, how is it possible for DS to get a loan from the "Vojvodine Development Bank" at the time of the campaign without guaranteeing anything? It's a bank robbery matrix. It is a matrix of destruction and Agrobank and now "Universal Bank". It's a behavioral matrix. Why don't you answer that question, in relation to all these insults, the personal insults of the people of the SNS?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30948	The Republic is owned by Mr. Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30949	I'm sorry, we really didn't insult anyone from the SNS. What have we done to offend someone, please? We ask nicely. Since you like the game of questions and answers, I ask you again – what will happen to Mr. Djelitovic, who has put forward the advances to run a private bank and how is it possible that Jorgenka Tabakovic and the National Bank of Serbia did not know that millions of euros were given to people who wanted to guarantee cans, pans and pots? So answer me that question. Tell me, how did you guarantee "Universal Bank" credit, where the shareholder was then Miroslav Miskovic? You advances, what did you guarantee at the time? That's what you tell me. There are all kinds of people who have been with you and are still with you. You've only given up one. Don't be ashamed of your benefactors. Don't talk about companies. I've asked you a hundred times. You must first answer me how the "block & Connect" company, where Mr. Vukic worked until the election, today has more than 40 times as much income as before the election? First you have to answer me, then we have to talk about other things. You can't answer that, Mr. Granny. Tell me, how is it possible and is it true that Mr. Sinisa Mali puts together with Vesic and other former Democrats of money at Universal Bank a few days before this happens? How is that possible? People, explain this to me, because of the citizens of Serbia, not because of the DS. It's called the stability of the banking system, for which when it's "Agrobank" or "Development Bank" you say -- they're yellow, and there's no yellow ones. Now that we've got advances, you're talking to me again about what you've been doing. I already told you, it's not that address, Mr. Granny. Democracy is in the old address, and I wouldn't comment on these new ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30950	The replica was answered by Mr. Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30951	Mr. Stefanovic, the SNS is responding to the citizens, and it won't answer to you for sure. The difference is the difference, the difference is the difference in light years by values between Alexander Vukic and Dragan Gilas, in light years. Aleksandar Vukic does not own any of the companies in Serbia, neither in Europe nor in the world. He didn't take advantage of the budget, he didn't have it and he didn't have it as the biggest state-owned company and the biggest state-owned firm. He did not blackmail RTS, as the Darekt Media did in order to increase its income by five years from the authorities of Dragan Gilas 39 billion dinars. Are you saying that somewhere Mr. Wolf is the owner of a company, or maybe it's bothering you that someone was working somewhere? I don't know if he worked or didn't work. Doesn't he have a right to work? Is it democracy that you want to prevent basic human right to work? What about the questions asked for "Darrekt Media"? An anonymous firm that in five years' time the government of 39 billion dinars is revenueing. You want to put a sign of equality between someone who works and someone who owns it and is unmistakably rich in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the city of Belgrade?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30952	MP Bajro Gegic is not here. National MP Enis Imamovic is not there either. National MP Sanja Jeftic Brankovic is not there either. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30953	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dr. Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, did not bring us together here a real and sincere desire by a political party to fight crime. We are gathered together today for a good time, because there are no more Feketics, so the "superman" would now be a little bit more "robocap", or Spasoje would be again Gavrilo from "Three tickets to Hollywood", with that famous sentence: "That, the militia, arrests, we will arrest the people, we will change the people if we have to, just to stay in power." So, my dear demagogues sitting across from me, I have to ask you where in this material for this session is the prosecution's request to remove immunity from unfortunate colleague Dragan Tomic? He's gone. What's the name of a police officer who's freely made a decision by his police assessment to appoint a MP to be held in custody? What is the name of the political system in which the executive power through its obedients determines the detention of MPs? Is such a system called dictatorship? That's right, it's called dictatorship. Has the state of emergency ever been introduced in this country? Yes, at the time of Sabela's police action. Is that when one MP was arrested? No, because the law and the Constitution were respected. Where is Dragan Tomic today? In police custody. How can he be in police custody if he's not found guilty of a crime for which the sentence of the law has been prescribed for more than five years? By estimating that the National Assembly could be someone's private front and that because of someone's rating, demagogy, the lack of snow in Feketiæ should now have to arrest its MPs until a new situation is come up. What is the name of the situation when the constitutional order of this country is rocked by the arrest of MPs? The dictatorship. Who's the image of dictatorship? Whatever I think of you as a political party best testifies that you started arresting yourself for crime and corruption. The only question is whether he is first and whether this is our last session and whether in two, three days we will not meet again because the police will knock again on the door of someone from the Tomislav Nikolic camp and say – come with us, Aleksandar Vukic ordered. You know, your political capacities are clogged and somewhere in the 19th century at Milos Obrenović and Obor-Princes. That's how Milos Obrenović with three beatings is, in turn, a stick under his hand, you don't like the Obor-Prince, you don't like the Prince, and you love it like this. Your political future, and especially the future of Serbia with you in power, is easy to foresee only to look closely at the past and share the roles of Slavko Curuvija, who is Ivan Stambolic and where is Fruska Gora today? These are questions and every citizen today who doesn't think like you and who isn't for you is potentially a suspect. If this was really a desire to deal with organized crime, with corruption, let's see, since we don't have a prosecutor's report on what your party tabloids say, what does the Informer say, what does the Courier say? I've been doing everything by the order of Alexander Wolf. Where's the immunity request for Alexander Vukic? Why wasn't he arrested? He's not supposed to be arrested, is he? The police officer who ordered the detention of Dragan Tomic could have ordered the detention of Alexander Vukic because he told the police - I was doing everything by order of Aleksandr Vukic. If you're already in the tabloids conducting an investigation and convictions where is he on the defendant's bench today? Why don't we discuss his immunity today? How can someone who participated in the murder of Slavko Curuvia be innocent? Where's that man on the defendant's bench? Today he judges and judges. I don't know if anyone has the money to buy this newspaper and the tabloids today, you reading the tabloids that are full of accusations, and if you see a horoscope there's only love and health, there's no more work in the horoscope in Serbia. That's why he has to entertain you by arresting his members, to show that they are fighting crime and corruption. Those charges were filed at SNS headquarters. Today you want the help of the DS and the opposition, and if you really want help, don't call us to cry with you or to be your shoulder for crying, or the creators of the sad pathetics where you're going to go out to Nis and tell us – your conscience is like heaven, you've objected to the illegal decisions of the Court of Appeal, against murder, crime and crime, and we are the ones who amnestize these criminals, let them go free and send them home. What do we have to believe now that this man won't go home in a few days, that there won't be any judge of the Court of Appeal and say -- how much did you take, here in the paper it says two billion and 300, you were something illegal in custody, and you know that the OSCE wondered how the MP was in custody? In Turkey, an MP in custody. We have built the torment of this country's institutions so that you can embarrass us in front of the world now and make fun of us like this. You haven't started learning yet, because your only motive for learning is to correct bad grades. Whenever you do something, you've fixed something you've messed up. First you spoil everything, then you fix it. First you let an incompetent man run a bank for millions and billions. Then you arrest him against the law, and he'll sue you and the officer who arrested him. When does his 48-hour police custody expire? How can he be in custody? If I talk to him till 5:00 p.m., and he's been arrested at half past 11:00, then what are you gonna do, keep him in custody? I'll vote to take away his immunity, because I think there are more of you sitting here who need to take away the immunity. I can tell you, but I won't – not to discuss the immunity of a message that was illegally privatised by a bus station in Novi Sad. I can tell you, but I won't. Why don't we discuss an MP who fakes the seal, which we don't take away his immunity? I can tell you that, but I won't – why don't we discuss the immunity of an MP who's drunk in the middle of Smeder. I can tell you, but I won't – not to discuss the immunity of an MP who steals grain from stores and corn not conditional storage and manufactures aflatoxin in his warehouse and poisons milk in Serbia and does not answer criminally but hides behind parliamentary immunity. Why don't we take away his immunity? To you whose conscience is like the sky, but pierced by the badges of the SRS, I must ask you – why we are not discussing the immunity of those who have abolished Serbian institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, where they are here to respond, when they will respond. Is he going to the election? Of course, in the election. There is a small church in Bajectina for so many sins. Let me ask you in the end, you will now replace the roles, who was the first Deputy Prime Minister with us will now be the first Deputy Prime Minister again, and he who is now the first Deputy Prime Minister will be the Prime Minister. You guys better keep your mouth shut 'cause I can say something about immunity for you, and you're drunk, driving a car and banging cars like Easter eggs and running away from the crash site. So, you've brought us together badly, you don't work easy with the state, it's not a country nobody's toy in the hands of children who are willing to play with that country a little bit. Today we are discussing the abolition of immunity to a MP who is already in custody. Do you realize that you have attacked the institution of this country's parliament, the constitutional order, that you are from the foundation of destroying the constitutional order of this country. Do you realize what kind of ruins you've made of justice in Serbia in a year? That the killers of Novi Sad are laughing at victims and families, that the citizens of this moment are gathering in Nis and Novi Sad and protesting scandalous decisions and ways in which you lead the country and the judiciary of this country. That you came across every institution you could just to raise your own rating. Every time you jump a 2% rating in Serbia, your standard falls by 10% and some institution breaks down on which this tormented Serbia rests. Finally, since this is our last session in this session, unless another "ronocap" is arrested in the coming days, because there will be no snow in Feketiæ, I want to thank the congregation services, drivers and all the staff that helped us to do this year and a half, two how much we did according to the law, building this institution that SNS is knowingly breaking up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30954	The word is made by MP Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30955	I thank Mr. President, and I advertise Article 106, and I believe that you have seriously violated the Rules of Procedure by allowing some of the MPs, now I don't know which DS, but it is completely irrelevant, therefore, accusing and prejudicing individuals, not only Mr. Vukic, not to be, and not to think that I have come forward, but also Mr. Dželovic. So, people who perform some of the important duties in this country. And I expect that based on the media, as I understand it, so much about media dictatorship. Now I would really like us all to read these inscriptions more carefully in different media. You know what, if we were to judge by that, there wouldn't be any of yours, or this other DS based on what's in the media, I mean, because of the media dictatorship that exists in Serbia. Indeed, I call on the state authorities to take more seriously the signs in the media they have so far ignored, so we will see how many members of this and those DS will be called to immunity, or whether they will call for immunity. But that's really the thing that you pulled out, and we should listen to you very nicely. As for institution building, it is best to ask former Justice Minister Mrs. Malovic, who sat in institutions and how the judicial system was outside the influence of strong people from the policy world and, of course, from the DS. She described it best, probably your wife knows you best, probably knew how things work. I think her statement is important to you, to examine your own past and to build institutions with you. As far as the tycoon is concerned, tycoons are people who are powerful and rich in the countries of transition, and mostly have a negative connotation, that they've gotten rich in a suspicious way, but I don't know, and I suggest you have a lexic innovation, as people who are simply involved in politics, not in business, have become very rich, and you should do it as a contribution to the labels that you could give to the president of your party.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30956	According to the Rules of Procedure, Momir Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30957	I, despite all my efforts, have failed to grasp my previous DS colleagues...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30958	Please, since you requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please do not use this as a right to replication during your address on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30959	Article 106, 107. There were words here that on the basis of some cop's knowledge, we're sitting down today to end the immunity of MP Dragan Tomic. Please, a police officer is a pessimistic, ugly name for a police officer of the Republic of Serbia, and I would like to apologize to all the members of the police and the M.O.P., and I hope most of you, too, for what has been said to a police officer. The second remark was why a meeting of the National Assembly was called today, to abolish immunity, when Mr Dragan Tomic was not guilty. Is that what we are at times when the MPs judge whether someone is guilty, whether there are serious indications that someone committed a crime? I hope that these times are much behind us and that we are obliged, what is the honor and integrity of MP Dragan Tomic when he called for immunity, also says that today's meeting of this Parliament will cost the Republic of Serbia about a million and a half dinars. If he's sure of his innocence...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30960	But don't let us get into it. I understand the essence, but don't let us go into any further replicas through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I get the remark.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30961	There were remarks here that someone was illegally detained and these remarks from that political option that through the action "Sabbe" hundreds of people were held illegally in custody.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30962	Mr. Stojanovic, don't let us get into it, because then it becomes a replica. Thank you, I understand the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30963	Dear President of the National Assembly, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27, which says that - the president of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly. Please, as you represent the National Assembly, to address the prosecution during this session, to get me, as the MP from the prosecutor's office, to request an investigation or to remove the immunity of MP Dragan Tomic, to provide me with stenographic notes from the board of directors' session, to see if there were quorums there, how it is possible that the Committee's session was called and held within an hour, how the MPs from Serbia arrived at that session, to see the video of that session, and to see who read the request for the removal of immunity and who explained this request and who signed the request from the prosecution. Otherwise, I believe that today access to illegal activities of the National Assembly and that we are sitting here as a "cosat" assembly, without even being able to discuss the abolition of the immunity of counterpart Dragan Tomic without the prosecution's request. I want to know how it's possible for the MP to be in custody and he has immunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30964	I absolutely agree and you are right already at this point, in consultation with the Service you can immediately get a stenogram from the session, it is no problem, all sessions are public and you have the right to, fully available complete material from the session of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, so it is not a problem. Replica, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30965	Fortunately for me, fellow MPs say some DS counterparts have made such a fiery effort to process those who have ruined Serbia's economy. The Management Board, as I said, was held two nights ago in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and for such a proposal, was voted by Mr. Konstantinovic, but you do not speak to Mr. Konstantinovic anymore, but besides, the entire campaign against Alexander Vukic and his involvement as a man, parents and politicians, as the first Deputy Prime Minister for his engagement and for his concern about the people snowed in the snow of Feketić, and this campaign was launched by rich warm Belgrade and New Sad cabinets, and where fortunate that all those who then tweeted, sent messages through Facebook, took one shovel and helped people, but did not worry about how to create a parliamentary list, which order would be, how they would share the chairs and how they would again come to put their hand in Serbia's pocket. There's been a lot of talk here about some catastrophic things. I remind you, Serbia has advanced from 86nd to 72nd in the fight against corruption within a year of the SNS government. You're talking about dictatorship. The dictatorship is being poured over to the media, and according to border-free reporters, Serbia stood at 54th place on the freedom of the media and is the best in the region. Is that what's in dictatorship? Of course it doesn't exist, but it's nice to take advantage of it, last chance from this pay phone. Serbia's Progressive Party wants reforms, the SNS wants its strength in reforms, the SNS deals with the needs of people in Serbia, the SNS wants to create new jobs, such as yesterday's Johnson Electronics in Nis hired over 500 Nislji, as Mercedes will come to Serbia in early March and produce in Serbia, because we want reforms, we don't want political cough and return to the old, and neither do Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30966	Mr. Milivojevic, but you didn't mention it? You can get a stenogram, he didn't mention you in any way or your participation in the debate, he really didn't mention you in any way. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've already decided here on a similar matter. I think it was Col. Dulic who we took away the immunity, which allowed the law enforcement authorities to process the case. At that time, we are accused of being remandists, it is said about the following, that we are able only to lift immunity to the opposition, but we are unable to lift immunity from some of our colleagues who belong to the ruling political parties. Today there is no political reason to decide otherwise and when we do not want to decide otherwise, even if our colleague does not want us to decide otherwise, we are again accused of not doing things by law, by justice, etc. This is where we heard what "Laufer" reported. I didn't need that "Laufer"; for me, Mrs Malovic is the best "Laufer". Everything I've been claiming here for 18 months, she's said in a few sentences. Many, when they fought as a Zemun clan, talk much about each other and who's right? I claim that everyone is right both, and the old democratic, new democratic and latest democratic party, and I claim that they are all right. What's the truth about that? Everything they claim about each other is true and I can sign anything, and I've talked about it many times. Today we allow law enforcement authorities to do their job. The assembly doesn't arrest, political parties don't arrest. Those times have passed, but the habits of those who have become accustomed to party doing so are others and they think that someone else is doing what they did while they were in power. I know a colleague named Tomic, and I know others. Today, we are confiscating the immunity of fellow Tomic, who is a tenant. Most likely they won't have anything to pawn, but I ask those who complain so much today and who talk about everything and everything, what did those who were amnesty pawned during their reign? Guarantees of 12m euros, of a million euros, of threem euros, and no one is asking whose money they are enforcing, in my opinion, are being prosecuted to a sufficient extent. The other day, I received a letter from the D.A.'s office suspending my 2007 criminal charges against the president of the Indji Municipality for obsolescence. The prosecution which received its application in 2007 did not try to prosecute in court at all. I have spoken here several times and asked questions about some actions, not referring to "Laufera", what about certain items, what about the privatisations of three sugars per three euros made in favour of the DS financial director. I talked about it here, and I have the subject here, as their candidate for the future prime minister, the newspaper man, took 500,000 euros from the state to deal with vineyarding, and then he sold the vineyard, as he took 500,000 euros from the state for the spring planting in 2007, even though he only leased those parcels from the same state on November 7th with a lease contract in 2007. What kind of spring was that in November? Were we living in Australia or were we living in Serbia? What kind of spring was it in November when someone could plant the vine on November 7th and receive a premium and a grant for spring planting in 2007? This object is here. He's also with the police. I won't tell the cops. He's also with the D.A.'s office. So, all I had on the news, the crimes that took place between 2000 and 2012, I've been informing the prosecution about it, and that's why I know very well that they know that these cases are out there somewhere. Now "Laufer" says some, as they say, will find themselves yellow on the list of those who may be subject to prosecution. I'm not talking about people who have immunity. I'll talk about those who have no immunity and at any moment are available to the law enforcement authorities. These are Mr. Gilas, whom many people believe is a reasonable doubt that he has made private business of his own, that he has not served the city but served the city. There are also indications that Mr Pajtic can also be found on the list of those who have committed some crimes, particularly abuse of position. So there are many who do not have immunity and, in my opinion, the organs of the prosecution should be dealt with. The parties don't arrest. The D.A.'s lead investigation. Let's be honest today, when many cases are out of date because of the prosecution, because of the judges, let's stand up for their independence. Let's see who the D.A.'s from and who the judges are independent of? I'm sure of this authority, but I'm not sure of the previous one. So, all the prosecutors, all the judges who later elected major prosecutors, who were later elected by the High Council of the Judiciary, who are now taking care of themselves, who decide and control themselves, so it's a mistake for citizens to think that the government is also controlling the justice, the judiciary and the prosecution. That's not true. This is done by major prosecutors, done by the High Judicial Council, composed of judges and prosecutors who were elected not during the term of office of the government, but during the term of office of the previous government. I don't want this investigation to stop on Mr. Tomic. It should allow authorities to do their job, but also law enforcement authorities, primarily the prosecution, should prove that they are not only independent of this authority, but that they are independent of the former government. Many judgments are obsolete, they have not been made. There's a lot of reports in the drawer. We had a systematic robbery, where an organized company through public functions enriched itself and its friends. The state didn't stop crime at the time, but the crime contained the state. We are now trying to reverse the process and do not understand those colleagues who do not want to understand it, and they insist on judicial independence, judicial functions, independence of prosecutorial functions, etc. I'm not happy with the prosecution's work, but they're independent, they've been chosen before us. We have no influence on their work. I don't know what they did wrong during work on this case. It remains to find out whether they made a mistake or not. I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a judge. I'm the president of the People's Peasants' Party. There's nothing but a common people around me. The common people wonder, and we passed here by Karadjordje, and today is Meeting, the day when peasants raised the uprising, the day when they brought the Constitution the most advanced in Europe, the day when the peasants asked that this country be legal, that justice and justice be not only available to the rulers, but to be available to all people, to every citizen, to every peasant, to every worker. Those who think there's immunity to any of the people are mistaken. The people are hungry, barefoot, unemployed, half-employed, without pay. No matter how hungry and poor we are, our people want justice and justice to punish the masters of the transition that brought us into this position. Neither Percevic, Bogicevic nor Đuric, nor Petrovic are members of the Serbian Progressive Party and the People's Peasants' Party. We have no reason to protect these masters of transition, and the people have the right to justice. If we don't make it possible, they'll come here alone for justice and justice and they'll be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30968	Thank you. The People's Messenger Sinisha Lazic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30969	Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow Members of the People, I shall speak first and foremost as a member of the Administrative Board and point to some, in my opinion, failures made. The Management Board was called up as it was called and I really couldn't physically get to that session of the Administrative Committee, because it was just 200 kilometers away and some of the activities that were happening parallel to it couldn't be coordinated. But what are the facts, no one here today argues that immunity to the MP should be abolished. I'll talk only about some procedure and chronology how it should be done. If there's already an assumption of what we're discussing here today, then it wasn't disputed to arrest this man today after his immunity has been lifted and to be completely in some legal course. But I don't know why it was supposed to be done two days ago and he's being held against the constitution and against the law in custody today. These are the procedural things we're talking about today. That's something I point to. Here, it's about the one whose authority it is, that's the state, and whose state it is, that's freedom. We now have one process where we're spinning, burning who's right, who's wrong. No one here has disputed that if there is such an assumption that someone has committed a crime, that they should answer for it, and I think it's quite clear to everyone. However, the way that we do this and the way we violate the institutions that exist in this society, we come into a situation that one day, and we all call on the people, we come into a situation that, by breaking the institutions, people grow into a bunch or crowd that will not respect the Constitution, or institutions, or institutions, but only respect the stick. I think it should be a warning to politicians, not just the people. Institutions exist to make the system work. The law is something that is binding on all of us. If today, on the Day of the Constitution of the Serbian State, we are in violation of some procedure, we are violating the Constitution, we are violating everything that is written somewhere and written down as a legal framework and the basis of this country, then I think we have made a failure somewhere and no one can dispute it. So, the man is in custody before we've done some things to get legal conditions for him to be there, and that's what we're talking about here. There was talk, among other things, of everything. I'll tell you about those, Mr. Granny, jobs in Nis. The investment that is being realised in Nis and which will employ 500 people is an investment that was supposed to be in Somboro. But he's not in Somboro, do you know why? Because if it were realised in Somboro, it would cost two and a half million euros to the Republic of Serbia's budget, costing it nine million euros, as it is realised in Nis. Just so you know, because of the mention of certain things and the affirmativeity of a story that is current at this point. Let me get back to the subject. So, the procedure that is binding for all of us at this time has been violated. I believe that we could have done all of this in the legal frameworks and not made this papacy here and from the institutions and from the Assembly and from the MPs and from the entire society living in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30970	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30971	For the sake of truth, the prosecution's request arrived at 3:30 p.m. About 1600 hours, all members of the Administrative Board were contacted. My colleague Lazic is from Somboro. My esteemed counterpart Beric is also from Somboro and tells me that, respecting all traffic regulations, driving no faster than 60km per hour, from Somboro to Belgrade will arrive in two hours. The Management Board was held at 1900 hours. In three hours, someone who wanted to participate, someone who wanted to engage, someone who wanted to see it all, could have come, but he didn't want to. Let's talk about this kind of procedure right now. The regulatory services of the Administrative Board have called on every MP, taking care of the territorial distance, the possibility of arriving at a session of the Administrative Committee and the time needed to reach Belgrade safely, respecting traffic regulations. On the other hand, it is difficult, Mr Lazic, to criticise the opening of jobs in Serbia. For SNS, people in Sombor, Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Serbian citizens. In Serbia, it is hard to live, there is little work and faster, stronger reforms we want to hire these people. We'll make all the preconditions for more jobs, for reforms, for building plans. Why didn't you think about it and why don't you say openly and correctly how much time it takes in Serbia to get permission? How many doors does he have to knock on? How many papers does he have to take out? We want reforms, we want a new Law on Planning and Construction which will make such opportunities, such factories and Mercedes and Johnson Electronics and much more jobs and much more work for Serbia and for all citizens of Serbia, no matter where they live.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30972	Here you go, Mr. Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30973	Mr. Granny, I'll start from the back. For this question you said – how long it takes for the door and how long it takes to issue the license, we'll get it through this quick answer office of yours, which you opened. As for the time to schedule the meeting of the Administrative Board, in the afternoon the Secretary of the Committee called and asked if there was a possibility that you could attend the meeting of the Administrative Board in the evening, without the exact time defined. That's true. I wouldn't engage with you in the controversy at all. You know very well that I am a member of the Committee who comes very zealously and correctly to the Committee meetings and when you have quorum and when you do not have and participate in the work of the Administrative Committee, so that you cannot personally attach this topic to me. As far as this analogy is concerned about jobs, yes, there are equally important jobs everywhere, yes, there are equally important jobs everywhere, in each part of Serbia, but I have talked about how much it costs the Serbian budget if such an investment is realised in one place and how much it costs if implemented elsewhere. What you should have said to me is, why is there a man in custody before we have removed his immunity? It's a question to answer me, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30974	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30975	Mr. Lazic, I'll let you know. You are likely to be more campaigning than living in Serbia. The Office for Rapid Responses as a SNS project, as one of the tools in the fight against corruption, is open and opened in the town of Krusevec. I will take you to see Mr. Bratislava Gasic, one of the best mayors in Serbia, to see how all this works. Do not criticise the goodwill of the people working in the Secretariat of the Administrative Committee, who asked all Members of the Administrative Board – when it suits you, politely, normally. But also to that question, Mr. Lazic, with my gratitude for your involvement in the previous 73 sessions of the Administrative Committee and for the very correct and cooperative work, do not devastate what has been done, which is that 12 MPs from both the current government and the opposition attended the session and voted for this motion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30976	Mr. Lazic, we'll break the line. You're the first one to challenge it. We must allow other MPs to speak on the subject. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30977	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, about the Statehood Day of the Republic of Serbia, the topic we are dealing with is the subject of the rule of law, the weak, fragile, not enough, but the subject of the rule of law. I'm going to illustrate through three questions that remain without an answer. The first question is from the arguments we received with the call for this session and was complemented by the oral presentation of the President of the Administrative Board, saying that at 4:30 a.m. the prosecution's request has arrived, which requires the removal of immunity for possible detention. For all we know, at that moment MP Dragan Tomic is in custody. We don't know if he's still in custody, we don't know if he's been released after 24 hours, whether he's been released from custody when the D.A.'s office asked for approval for a possible arrest, but what's indisputable is that at the moment the Public Prosecutor's Office is seeking possible custody approval, MP Dragan Tomic is in custody. All the political folklore that we are prone to in all political parties cannot erase that fact, you cannot hold a MP in custody unless you have found him committing a criminal offence for which the Criminal Code has threatened five or more years of imprisonment. Every time I mention the rule of law, they tell me – the flaws, who cares about it, you see that this is more important. I'm interested. I am interested because the fact that Dragan Tomic, the MP in custody yesterday, and possibly today, is the basis for a major problem for the prosecutor in his case. The verdicts also fell because of the small things, because the procedure was culture, and there were various judgments and for the small things, from the fact that the MP had proof that it was illegal, that he was held against the Constitution at the time when the Public Prosecutor's Office asked us all to make a statement about the abolition of his immunity and his availability, or to facilitate detention. The ease that we don't care about is the same ease that we get the wrong electricity bills, the same ease that we don't want to do the rule on the treatment of rare diseases in the Republic Fund, the same ease that cops sometimes ask us for cash for a fine, the same ease that any of us, who's in public affairs, let yourself think that the rule of law doesn't matter. There is nothing more important than the rule of law and the rule of law. I am quite bitter, but I am still glad to have the opportunity to remind all of us on Statehood Day of the Republic of Serbia. This isn't a session. Let's get together. Let's get rid of his immunity. This isn't a session. Let's judge him, so let's shoot him, as cartoonally spoken in some times and cartoons. Nor is this a session where the topic is the request of any political party. This is a session of the National Assembly to decide on the status of one of us MPs. The rule of law implies that we ourselves have an awareness of the role we play, the importance and the importance of not allowing the executive authority to treat any of us for any reason beyond the law and beyond the Constitution. According to what we have as MPs an opportunity to hear from information, because the case that the prosecutor sent we don't have, maybe members of the Administrative Board, not slow down, I have what was delivered to me for the session, which is that at 16:30 yesterday, it was requested to allow detention. So someone at the Ministry of the Interior or in the investigating bodies or in the prosecution has overstepped his powers so much that I ask to determine who has the courage to explain to the MP that he has no immunity and then to keep him in custody. It doesn't matter whether this MP committed a crime or not. It's about the rule of law that we're all attached to, at least in words, and I repeat here -- I don't listen to what you're saying, I watch what we're doing, and what we did is that it's possible that MP Dragan Tomic is still in custody. On what grounds? What's his lawyer gonna do when we get his immunity off when he's available? What's the first piece of paper they'll turn over in the investigation? Why are we doing this? What are we actually doing? We make it impossible for the investigation against MP Dragan Tomic to proceed without procedural interference. Why are we doing this? Do we care about the rule of law, the availability of the investigative authorities of any of us who dared to abuse their official position or commit a crime, or did someone arrange for today’s session of the Assembly to take place somewhere like this? It's a common shame. There is no one useful in any other place, except in the National Assembly, agreeing on the status, the position, the rights and obligations of the MPs. If we agree to the political folklore that this is good because it is "theirs", and not ours, we have not agreed to anything but political folklore, because here we all have equal rights, equal obligations prescribed by the Law on the National Assembly, prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and prescribed by our obligations of conduct when it comes to the requirement to remove immunity. It is not immunity for no reason set up for representatives of citizens in the national parliaments, in parliaments. If we feel like talking about a request to determine the detention of the MP, who is already in custody, then we'll have to keep quiet next time it's someone else not named Dragan Tomic. Today we have to talk about it, no matter how much we all agree that we have to submit ourselves to investigations, suspicions, criminal charges, and all that public work commits us to, but we have to resist abuse of power in the executive government, not knowing, incompetence, superficialities in the executive bodies involved in investigations, self-will when it comes to criminal charges or when it comes to carrying out investigations. That's what we have to resist, because it's a common shame. If we dare say that MP Dragan Tomic is responsible and responsible for the situation we are in, then someone, all these 48 hours, has actually held us in custody. We were just seemingly at large. There is no dispute that, in any case, when an immunity is sought, whether it is sought by the competent state authority or, as the case may be, by the MP himself, to remove his immunity, through the debate on that request, the National Assembly is to make a positive statement. We're going to have a dispute with this case, if for some time from now on, and now it's 11 hours and 40 minutes, we're going to state about the removal of immunity and the possibility of detaining a MP who's already been detained. It's a much more serious thing than your political folklore that we can attach or attribute to any of us who would like to present himself as a fighter for institutions, a fighter for the rule of law or a fighter for corruption and crime. It is a great responsibility for all of us to understand that today, when we vote for the removal of immunity, we do not leave without an answer – and what was he doing in the custody of an MP who was established immunity. This is a question so serious that it is above any abuse of official positions, financial malfeasances, mutual donations of public money and any other description of the crime. It is a fundamental issue regarding security, not every one of us who is willing by the citizens of the National Assembly, but every one of us who lives in Serbia. My contribution to today is my question - how was it possible for MP Dragan Tomic to be in custody for one minute? How was it possible for someone better than the President of the National Assembly than the Administrative Committee and the National Assembly in general to know what to laugh about, and what not to laugh about the MP? I hope that I will get an answer to that question, because this question is much more important than the procedure that awaits MP Dragan Tomic or any of us who is in a similar situation in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30978	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30979	The SNS MPs were one of the signatories of the motion to hold a session by emergency procedure, and on this important issue that is why we are here. From the previous part of the debate, it was my free assessment, they couldn't, depending on when they watched the transfer, to understand why we got together in this way today, because it was going to, quote one of the co-workers, in fact paraphrasing, ease, unbearable ease of giving their grades, and even trying to influence the judicial authorities as to whether or whether they would lead the proceedings against one of us. I agree that respect for the state, respect and legality, respect for the Constitution and respect for the motion for a decision that the committee has authorized to question the immunity of the MPs here has put us here. I call on all MPs to vote in favour of this decision to allow MP Dragan Tomic, against whom the Public Prosecutor's Office has filed a very serious investigation and procedure for the initiation of a serious crime procedure, to bring out our defence, to enable his lawyers, not to get into what they are going to do, no, because it is not our right. I want to remind all my colleagues that parliament is not a courtroom and that we must refrain from assessing the work of the judicial authorities, even from assessing the police, if you will. So, to enable and to send a good message to the public, but also to protect the judicial authorities and police authorities from being able to be here as a parliament, an obstacle to carrying out investigations and judicial proceedings against certain colleagues. The protection of parliament was here in one of the discussions, that immunity exists to protect parliament from some minor crimes and violations against possible abuses. In this case, there are no abuses, no political will, here we are merely trying to enable the investigating authorities on the one hand to carry out the procedure provided for by law and the Constitution, and on the other hand to enable the defendant to defend himself. He called himself immunity. Therefore, it was up to him to decide whether such a procedure would go through here today and such a session, or whether he would give up immunity, or perhaps how one of the MPs did it in this assembly, resign to the post. I therefore call on MPs, regardless of political commitment, because this is not a political process, to vote today to take away immunity from one of our MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-02-15-0.u30980	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if the word is wanted by the representatives, or by the president of the parliamentary groups, or by someone else who has not used his rights under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a unique search. After a single search, the National Assembly will decide on a draft decision in the voting day. Since the National Assembly has completed its discussion on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Saturday, February 15, 2014 starting at 11:45 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda item, the session of the first extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 117 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are not present, and therefore there are no conditions for deciding at this time. I'm setting a 30-minute break. We'll be back at 12.30. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. On the basis of Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, is foreseen if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present, and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, abolishes the immunity of the MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to approve detention and conduct criminal proceedings against MP Dragan Tomic. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one with abstention – has voted – five of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014.
