ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19089	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 12th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please ask the ambassadors to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 103 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Momo Colakovic. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda - the draft energy law. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session by Minister of Mining and Energy Aleksandar Antić, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Dr Kori Udovic, Minister without portfolio Jadranka Joksimovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mining and Energy Mr Mirjana Filipović, Professor Milos Banjac, Assistant Minister of Mining and Energy, Olivera Gudžulić, Head of the Ministry of Mining and Energy, Nada Mijatović Bojanović, Head of the Department for System Management of Energy in the Ministry of Energy and Energy and Olga Antić Miocinović, Head of the Department of the Ministry of Mining and Energy. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Energy. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blagoje Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić, Borislav Stefanović, Dragan Šutanovic, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojšić, Mr Dejan Čapo, Dejan Nikolic, Jovana Jovanović, Katarina Rakić, Mr. Dejan Radenković, Vojislav Vuć, Zoltan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Milojevic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Aleksandra Tomić. You have received the opinion of the Government and reports of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, on amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 105(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. As you can see, there are no ministers and authorized representatives. I don't have any information as to why he's gone and I'm asking you to set a 15-minute break to determine where they are. We can't keep going. I don't want to continue the debate if there's not a single representative of the government, and they haven't informed anyone they won't be here. Fifteen minutes to determine where Minister Antic is located. Thank you. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19091	Thank you, Madam Chairman. On Article 2, I have submitted an amendment with colleagues from my parliamentary group and it is said that I suggested that at the end of the sentence, paragraph 1, point 35, be added words – which do not include the quantities reserved for the transport system operator that performs their function. In the same attitude, I asked to delete point 42. The ministry replied that the amendment would not be accepted for a reason because the term ‘lineak’ in the proposal was in line with Directive 200973. All that has been confirmed through the opinion of the Energy Community Secretariat in accordance with the draft legislation of the European Union. Also, Article 2(2), point (42). The bill stems from the obligations of the Republic of Serbia in line with the approved international contract and decisions of the European Community Council of Ministers. That's not true. I think that, as far as this first part is concerned, point 1 of the 35th position is a proposal that we have made meaningful, and this second part concerns, I think, with regard to giving priority to the decisions of the Ministerial Council of the Energy Community over domestic legislation, it is already noted that only ratified decisions can be respected and thus protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with Article 24. The Law on ratification of the Treaty establishing the Energy Community, which provides that the Energy Community is obliged to adopt measures to adapt to legal assets, taking into account the institutional framework of this Treaty and the specific situation of each of the Contracting Parties. Serbia, Mr. Minister, is certainly a contracting party and it would be okay to keep it that way, but the Decision of the Energy Community Ministerial Council in Article 4 of 6 October 2011 provides for the equalisation of contracting parties and EU member states. Has the decisions of the Energy Community Council of Ministers ratified the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? As far as I know, it is not, and in this sense this provision is not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Do you think, Mr. Minister, that the electricity sector of the Republic of Serbia can be measured with the French RDF, or the German RRF? No one is slowing down, Mr. Minister, the European integration of the Republic of Serbia and the alignment with the Third Energy Package, but I remind you that we have not fulfilled all the obligations of the Second Energy Package. This looks like you're referring to the principal in doctoral studies, which you'll agree to, it's not possible. It's just, we're not ready for this quick and sudden change yet. There will be a lot of interpretation of the provisions of this law, improvisation and the possibility of malfeasance, and it will all go through the customer's wallet, and I ask you to reconsider our amendment and accept it, because you are not jeopardising the integrity of the law and its enforceability. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19092	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19093	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Ministry's position was to carry out a serious analysis of all the amendments sent by the MPs, respecting this high house, but also the need to make the Energy Act together, as one of the key legal projects that the Assembly adopted, better. I think the very fact that we accepted 38 of the 96 amendments says that our approach was precisely to support the efforts of MPs in the common goal of making the legislative project better. Without any doubt, we accepted all the amendments that were possible and which, in a qualitative sense, made this law better. I cannot accept your assessment that the implementation of the third energy directive package opens up any space for malfeasance, I simply think that this formulation is not the most happily spoken to you, and I suppose you didn't really mean it because just the adoption of these directives makes our legislation far more responsible, far more co-existent and closes the possibility of just any speculative activities that can be brought into any kind of relationship with malversions. When it comes to this particular amendment, I have to point out...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19094	Minister, time, two minutes in response.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19095	I'm sorry, I'm finishing my sentence, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19096	Since it's total law, we have limited time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19097	So, the contract says decisions are binding, and the contract has been ratified by the Republika Srpska Assembly, so it cannot be said that we have no obligation, nor that the acceptance of those provisions is against the constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19098	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19099	Do I have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19100	It's not for replicas because it was the answer only, but use your time and talk about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19101	I don't want to waste the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19102	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19103	Dear President, Honorable Ministers, fellow Members, today we have had the opportunity on the Committee to see that there is a consensus on the adoption of the law not only with the third package of the EU Directive on the basis of the Energy Community Agreement, but also with the legal solutions concerning the amendment and addition of the Construction Act. What was interesting about this presentation was that some of the elements used in the interpretation of amendments that were not accepted lead to the conclusion that there is a misunderstanding, it seems to me, some of the proposals on what is actually the EU's legislation. If this Parliament adopted in 2005, ratified the Energy Community Agreement and entered into force in 1.1.2006, then it is practically one time that we need to provide and establish an integrated energy market, to establish strengthening security of supply, to establish strengthening competition at regional level, and all this is the way, especially if we are talking about a third package of directives. Of course, that path can't go overnight, but unless we have a legal framework, then we can't even talk about European integration at all. The hardest part is what is called the European path to energy because it is being touched somewhere by every citizen of Serbia, but we must be aware that the European regulation we are talking about and adopting is going towards the absence of malversions. Just by strengthening competition, you're avoiding any system for the possibility of monopoly, for the possibility of malversion, so I don't think this amendment has been accepted for a reason. Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19104	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19105	Thank you, Chairman. I would agree with the Honorable Amendment Proposer that it is now possible to suddenly delete it like that, but it is not possible because we have taken some commitments. Why haven't we prepared ourselves years ago when we've taken some commitments, but it's already another topic, but even now to determine that, it won't help that we have these obligations to fulfill. It is the same as in the situation that next year the EPS will be fully at the competition with other electricity distributors. Is she fully prepared, since she hasn't even entered the corporate governance system yet, she's not ready, of course, but we've taken it years back as a commitment and we can't avoid it anymore. Why someone treated that company as social, right to tell you, I don't know, led it to the brink of destruction, and I don't know, but I do know that we have an obligation to go to a competition and that's something we can't avoid. Thus, such an amendment, however meaningful it may be, is simply impossible to accept, because there is something that stems from our obligations, which we have taken over, and we simply have to fulfill it whether we want to or not. And why we came to this situation that unprepared maybe we're getting into all of this, it's already a tenth topic, and you might be able to ask some of the authorities that previously ran our energy system and managed our energy resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19106	Thank you. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: Am I right now? ) Is the party mentioned, you personally or? As far as I'm concerned, I don't see any big ground, but I'm not stopping you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19107	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, what I was talking about is contained in point 42, which says: "The competent body, according to the obligations arising from the confirmed international agreements, is the body set out by the Treaty establishing the Energy Community between the European Community of the Republic of Albania, Bulgaria, Bosnia, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania, etc. and decisions of the Energy Community Council of Ministers until the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU." Nobody argues at all that our public enterprise can get a competitor. The point is whether parliament, the government, will be able to control and influence decisions to be applied to the energy market of the Republic of Serbia. If this member remains, the 42nd competent authority will determine all these parameters in the territory of our Republic. We believe that we in the Republic of Serbia are not yet ready for such a thing. It is a matter of the congregation's majority and the policy implementation of what you will bring. I'm just suggesting and saying my opinion and my position politically. We have the opportunity and we have the space to adopt this law without this act, and it is up to you, dear colleagues, to comply with your policy and vision of how Serbia should look and to adopt the laws. I'm just afraid that at the end of the day, customers don't pay all the money, so I'd like to ask you to think that way, not about whether someone is politically with a program of this kind or of that kind and whose program is better. Let's translate that into this bill which is more effective and better for the end-user of our electricity buyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19108	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19109	I can agree with the promoter that it's a question of how ready we are. That's right. It's something we've just accepted and we have to figure it out. You said one sentence that burned my ears - how will the state affect the market? The state won't affect the market. That's the point. The market is free. This body will determine an environment in which companies will operate to distribute electricity. So you can't ask the state to influence the market. Then it would bring us back to some period that we've been pushing for years to be out of that system. The market is free. I agree with you that we're quite unprepared for that. Why we're going in unprepared, that should be asked years ago why we didn't prepare for something like this. This is now literally give us the resources we have to collect and try to get into a healthy market game, and we'll see what it looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19110	The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19111	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs, must be declared either for European integration or not, whether it is for the EU or not. If you are for the EU, then you must harmonise your regulations by 2020. That procedure is phase. One stage is the practical alignment of the third package of directives. The second package included a member of the 42nd election of the Energy Agency and should be pleased that the Energy Agency is in charge of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as an independent body. The practical board in charge of the energy field elects members of the Council, elects a president who should be fully apolitical. Their reports and financial plans practically go to the committee in charge in this assembly and are being debated in the tide. Therefore, I do not think that the promoter had a complete picture, and I certainly see that he does not understand politically what European integration is, and has the chairman of the Committee on European Integration from his ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19112	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19113	Ladies and gentlemen, EPS is one big system. The most important firm operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is certainly the EPS, a company numbering 35,000 employees, who, in addition to the very often unjust media spinouts you can hear about them, represents the heart and spine of the Republic of Serbia's economy. Today when we talk about liberalising the energy market, then we need to know that this is a perfectly normal legal procedure and that this is normal market action. What my colleagues do not know, liberalisation on the energy market and the EPS has already started in 2014. Already in 2014, the market for all large and medium-sized consumers has been open, so that today everyone has had the right to choose operators, distributors for years. As of 1 January 2015, for all small users, the market will be open, but what is important is that the EPS is still on the market for large and small users still practically in the monopoly period. This is not because there is no different legal regulation but because the functioning of the EPS on the territory of the Republic of Serbia is, at this point, tens of times more competitive than any other competitor appearing on the market, so that the opening of the market from 1 January 2015 will practically change the image on the energy service market.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19114	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19115	Thank you. I'm using the time of authorized representatives of the DS parliamentary group. The amendment, adopted happily by the proposer, changes the words: "competitive competition with respect to market principles" with the words "free market". It's not a significant change. I do not believe that it would cause great damage if the amendment was not accepted, but it is good if we show an example to others that it is important in our legal texts that the more we use a clear, unambiguous, clean language, not only because we agree the language of the legislator with European integration, but because it is necessary for those who read the law and those who will apply the law to us who will control how the law is applied. The less interpretation, the less catchy expressions, the better for everything, and therefore I see as a good example the fact that you accepted this amendment, which colleagues Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19116	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19117	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this amendment, which we have submitted to Article 8, concerns jurisdiction. Of course, what we mentioned in the principle debate, that we gave amendments in this area, and that's where we suggested that they be in Article 8. The draft energy law after Article 2 adds a new position 3 to read – the competent regional energy authority submits an annual report to the ministry on the implementation of the AP programme by the latest 30 March of the current year for the previous year. This amendment was rejected on the grounds that the data for the purpose of the report are taken from the AP and there is no reason to add this member. We believe, given that there is a Regional Secretariat for Energy and that there are certain competences in this area, that it can be adopted by the competent regional authority to submit an annual report to the Ministry on the implementation of the AP Vojvodina programme, which would otherwise be produced and that this would not constitute any surplus for this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19118	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19119	This amendment also concerns competences, Article 9 adds that it also allows the competent regional authority, i.e. regional co-operation, given that the AP has excellent regional co-operation in the environment. We see no reason not to adopt this amendment. Namely, the promotion of regional co-operation, which is referred to in Article 9, concerns regional co-operation and concerns the number of state authorities and bodies, the member said. It is further said – it is not about regional co-operation, if such a proposal contained in the amendment makes sense. On the other hand, it is said in the explanation – co-operation achieved internationally by the AP Vojvodina through the co-operation of the region can also cover the area of energy, so there is no clear reason why Article 9. We were just explaining that the AP has just had excellent regional co-operation and this legal possibility would not be a burden, since it has been going on in the field of energy so far. We don't see why she's not listed in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19120	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19121	Of course, the possibility that the AP Vojvodina achieves regional co-operation exists. It stems from the Constitution and a whole set of other legal solutions. However, Article 9 defines not the region's co-operation with each other, but the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia at regional level. If we view Southeast Europe as a region, then it is Serbia's participation in this wider regional co-operation, so that the AP Vojvodina can co-operate with other regions in accordance with the Constitution and other laws, but cannot achieve co-operation as an entity at the level of Southeast Europe, the Republic of Serbia does. I think it's quite clear. This member doesn't handle the tumat that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19122	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19123	Thank you. I use the time of authorised representatives of the DS parliamentary group for a few short sentences of support for the amendment submitted by counterparts Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo, both the one currently under search and the previous one, explained by counterpart Nada Lazic. By fully understanding the minister's explanation for why this amendment is being rejected, I think we should write down at least a memory somewhere that this amendment has been submitted, because the European Energy Community has been quite difficult to create, I was a direct participant at the time of the signing, with several layers, which meant the phasing out of the contract and the participation of all and those we once considered not to be involved, we now feel that the entity that exists in some countries should also be. There is one particular feature of the overall contract and at the level of the Council of Ministers, and I think regional levels would benefit from the application of the contract. I have no doubt in the good co-operation of the Ministry of Energy and the Regional Secretariat, because it is necessary for many reasons and there are many good experiences that can be a time-saving to the central level that participates in the Council of Ministers of the European Energy Community and the regions, so I only appeal that this amendment, although not recorded in the text of the law, is written as a need for good practice in future work in the European Energy Community of Southeast Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19124	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19125	Thank you. I would support the view that the amendment still does not adopt. First of all, I think that the product is a particular misunderstanding, because as far as we understand from the debate so far, and from what was put into writing of the amendments, it seems that the mention of the regional context was misread in the sense that the accent was placed on co-operation between the regions, in the light of the amendment itself. If we accept that this misunderstanding has been extended to further interpretation and that the accent wanted to be put on something else, and it is likely to be an experience, if I understand well the amendment promoter, which exists, resulting from this co-operation between the regions, it could also be transferred to co-operation at interstate level, because here, in this article of the law, regionally viewed in terms of part of the continent, therefore, interstate co-operation in a certain sense in a localised area. Even participation through this experience and the transfer of good conclusions arising from this experience will not be disputed unless the amendment is adopted. As we see in the first sentence of the proposed law member in the first position, the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia will participate, so there is more than a good space for the province's experience to be demonstrated through the functioning of the competent authorities in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19126	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19127	I must admit, it's a great honor that you rejected this amendment, and I very much support it, because I've always been a supporter of the administration to be absolutely simple, or there should be no duplication of functions and bureaucracy. By accepting such an amendment, we would have double bureaucracy, and in doing so, I really don't see any reason. When regional co-operation is mentioned, it is not the co-operation of the AP Vojvodina, for example, or Slavonian County, but the co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. It's interstate co-operation, and that's why I absolutely support this. If we're going to cut red tape, this is something that's really good and something like this should always be turned down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19128	Thank you. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic and Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19129	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and ministers, above all, thank you for understanding and adopting this amendment. It's true, it's a technical and linguistic change, but I think we've at least defined a part of the article a little bit better, so thanks again for adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19130	Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bolžovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19131	Thank you, dear President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the honourable ministers, the honored guests, in Article 10, we proposed the following thing: "The cost of submitting and processing requests, as well as the cost of issuing acts on obtaining status for the energy-hazarded buyer, is borne by the budget of the unit of local self-government. “ What is our argument, Mr. Antiću, is that given the social status of the energy-hazarded electricity buyer or natural gas, the amendment proposes that it be released from paying the administrative costs of issuing an act. If you adopt this amendment and if you propose to the National Assembly to adopt this amendment, I think this would greatly help those who have visibly weakened in the previous period by two and a half to three years in Belgrade. As you know, while we were together and exercised power in the city of Belgrade, pensioners had a 13th pension that was for 126 thousand pensioners who were socially at risk. That possibility has been lifted in the city budget. Also, as you know, we had a budget debate a few days ago. Serbia is in recession and this is going to be next year. The National Bank of Serbia said that 36,000 people have lost their jobs in the past two and a half years, and with the auctions announced in the following year, I think this would further worsen the status of those who are threatened as buyers, i.e. those that fall within the category of energy-hazarded customers of electricity or natural gas. I think it's very important that we at least meet them this way, if we can't do it differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19132	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19133	First of all, I would like to remind once again that in the 2015 budget, we have maintained this level of social care and social assistance for vulnerable citizens, in line with some of the elements that are defined with the centres for social work. In fact, 680 million dinars this year will go from the Ministry of Mining and Energy to energy-protected customers, from 120 to 2409 kilowatt-hours of electricity, i.e. certain amounts of gas and heat. My colleague Bozovic, I agree essentially with your amendment, and I essentially support him as a minister and as a political man. But it is not legally possible because the Energy Act cannot prescribe what is paid by law, or we cannot regulate the spending of local self-government budgets. It's just impossible to solve it that way. When a law on local self-government is passed, we can change a member and introduce it as a category, but I just can't right now, this law isn't a lex specialis compared to other laws and we can't prescribe that kind of obligation to local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19134	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19135	I completely agree with the Minister's statement. In part, it says that energy-hazarded customers must be relieved of all obligations they need to achieve in the exercise of their rights. There's a concept difference here. You know, when you define the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia's functioning of the fiscal order of the Republic of Serbia, then it is unacceptable from the corner of the local administration to transfer another obligation to the local administration. The financial situation in local administrations is not extremely high quality, and it is, above all, the result of the difficult economic situation, but also not the finding of local administrations. We are in a phase of changing the basic source of funding for local administrations. So far, too long, the main source of funding for local administrations has been transfer funds. Transfer funds are an out-of-date financing mechanism and we are now, at this point, these years, moving on to a completely different mechanism of functioning. These are primarily two key sources of funding for local administrations: property tax and profit tax, economic classification 711. If you have these two sources of funding in which local administrations do not manage the best in collecting these taxes today, then it is totally unacceptable, without changing the Law on the Budgetary System, to impose another obligation on local administrations that, and like this, are having a hard time dealing with the resources they have to deal with. With the undisputed fact that economically threatened energy consumers should be protected, protected and allowed to make maximum use of their rights and with the obligation of the state to regulate the achievement of a cheap way of financing and functioning, we believe that this amendment should be rejected because it is contrary to the budgetary and fiscal system of the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19136	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19137	The amendment should not be accepted. This law cannot affect the budgets of local self-government, but I must point out the category of citizens who are the most vulnerable and who are achieving, based on the threat, the right to a social protection system. For citizens who exercise their right in the social protection system, these are beneficiaries of financial, social assistance, in the solution issued by the Social Labour Centre, the number of them is also numbered, i.e. the ED number. This solution is delivered to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs Information System and these citizens automatically, electronically, means through the Information System of our Ministry of Labour, they exercise the right to discount, i.e. to exercise their right and fall within the category of energy-hazarded customer. So, on that basis, they are not exposed to any additional costs. Also, users of children's allowances are not exposed to any additional costs, and as far as their right to an energy-hazarded buyer is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19138	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19139	We might also be able to accept that we are on some level of stronger and more stable states, but we are currently producing a state, literally creating a state, and our local self-government is extremely devastated. Today you have elections in one that owes 140 million dinars, it has a minus 140 million dinars. Imagine, for example, putting such a single community on extra charge for this sort of thing. It's simply impossible, because the budget of that municipality couldn't stand it. I agree that this has been rejected and I agree that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will take the responsibility to protect absolutely endangered customers and I fully support the government's position to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19140	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19141	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would accept this amendment if we were to talk about the village and agriculture. What I'm trying to say is that the government has to take account of the last position of this member for which no change has been proposed, that when adopting criteria, or most likely a regulation on the status of threatened customers, it takes care that agricultural landowners do not spend electricity solely on heating and at least spend on heating. So, at the time of the allocation of certain quotas for, say, the ageing households for endangered customers to make sure that electricity is least used for heating in the country, and that it is used to prepare food for cattle and for some economic activities that we have over 650,000 landowners, where even the poorest landowners in the country have to work. Therefore, electricity is being spent in these activities and I think that the ministry, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, should take care of endangered farmers in the countryside and threatened customers in the city. One uses electricity not only as light but also for heating, while others exclusively use electricity to watch television, for lamps, but also have an economic part of the household where no matter how old they are, no matter how powerless they are, they try to feed animals and use electricity, and then they break through a number of kilowatts and no longer fall into endangered customers even though they are the most endangered layer of the population. I therefore appeal to the Ministry that, in accordance with this amendment, where the proposer requests that the endangered customers have appropriate reliefs when applying, I urge the Ministry to pay particular attention to the ageing households in the country that are without pensions, often without any social assistance, to be threatened with regard to electricity because they are not only used for the purposes of their household but also for the economic part of the household, for the preparation of food for animals. These electric motors use a significant number of kilowatts of electricity and thus enter a quota that does not guarantee the status of a threatened buyer, although they may be more endangered than others.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19142	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19143	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I completely agree with you, even with Mr. Kovacevic, when he spoke of legal certainty being very important and that we must not pass laws that are contrary to other laws. I couldn't agree more. The other day we had a united debate on the Law on Energy and Change and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction and in one draft law we violate the Constitution of Serbia in the Law on Local Self-Government, and here, when it comes to threatened customers, we respect it. So, I have a proposal I have a solution. In the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Planning and Construction, we also respect this Law on Local Self-Government, when we amend Articles 97, paragraphs 3 and 4, because these changes reduce the budget from 10% to 30% by local self-government, e.g. 10% in Belgrade, compensation for the construction land, while e.g. in Chejetina that 30%, in Smederjevska Palace 15 or 20% and in that sense we will have money for local self-government. Then you as Minister of Change and Supplements to some subsequent time of the Law on Local Self-Government to propose that this be in line and to create a system where local self-government will indeed facilitate energy-hazarded customers, even if this part of the administration is required when issuing. I think this is a solution that we all have in our best interests and that it's useful. It also protects local self-government, protects those who will continue to lose their jobs in 2015, be socially threatened and with a recession that has been announced hard to deal with in the years ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19144	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19145	It's very short, let me explain. By abolishing the compensation, there has been a reduction in revenues going to local administration, but they are compensated by the property tax. It is a new category regarding local self-government, almost introduced a year ago and for the first time accounted for in 2014. The compensation of local self-government does not lead to a lack of resources. If they did this today, according to the amendment as you have proposed, as local self-government is financed from three sources of funding, allocated sources and revenue transfers, the Republic of Serbia therefore transfers commitments and if they transfer another commitment to the local administration, this would automatically imply a reduction of funds in the budget of local administrations. I agree, hypothetically it can be transferred to the burden of local administrations. It's nothing controversial, it's not even questionable to change the entire hierarchy of the law, but that's the point. In understanding the fiscal order of the Republic of Serbia, I personally think that the fiscal order of the Republic of Serbia should entail an even greater fiscal decentralisation and as little commitment to local administrations with higher income.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19146	The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19147	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, by 2012 we had no obligation to pay for electricity, only since 2012 do we have one government policy that says all accounts have to be paid, including electricity bills. But we have a full understanding that social categories must be protected, that their accounts must be supported by budget funds. That is why, as a result of all this, such policies by 2012, we have the debts of "Srbigas", because many of the subsidies that have been granted were just given to citizens of Serbia to have both economic price and electricity and gas. What do we have now? Since 2012, we have an EPS that has had to establish EPS Supply, a new legal person who really needs to know at this point what the debts of citizens and legal persons are, and we even say that legal persons have half the debt relative to the citizens of Serbia, that we know how many countries are essentially in need of certain taxes. At this point, it's inconclusive that local self-government and that part of the compensation alone is incomeing. What she needs to do, there's an idea of creating social cards. Local self-government should be involved in the detection of social categories. It means to define exactly what citizens are in a difficult situation to be subsidized in the payment of electricity bills. Therefore, I thank Mr. Minister that such an amendment could not have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19148	Thank you. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19149	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was late to report on the previous amendment, but the amendment is similar to Article 13. It is that the MPs, colleagues who have submitted this amendment, want the report working for the ministry to be delivered to all relevant committees of the National Assembly, in addition to being published on the site. It is true that this principle is respected when published on the site, but the Assembly is a slightly different kind of public, you will agree. In fact, we have legally established control of the ministries and government. The MP is the first level of control, the assembly board is the second level of control, the tide is the third level of control. I think it is very appropriate for the ministry's reports on such important issues of security of supply to the Republic of Serbia with electricity, natural gas is a major topic to be discussed both in parliament and in plenary and on the board. It is true that we will debate, but this is an obligation to come to the board and answer the questions of the MPs. I personally get the impression that here he might want to get away from parliament and some unpleasant questions we want to ask. I mean, you know, and I'm sure actually, you have the opportunity to accept this amendment now. I'm sure, Mr. Antic, you'll find understanding and accept even on Article 11. Now that you have no right to do so, I believe most of the congregation will, and you have the right to Article 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19150	The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19151	Well, I don't know if I have a chance at Article 11, but I agree -- it's not a great answer, as I don't think the amendment is necessary, because we've basically provided the full public when it comes to both documents and every request from the board, we respond by accompanying all the requested information, but I, as Minister, accept and amendment to Article 11 and Article 13.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19152	The minister accepted the amendment to... Just please repeat it for the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19153	So I accept the amendment to Article 11 and the amendment to Article 13.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19154	Yes, two amendments have been accepted. Thank you. They're on Article 16 of the amendment together... Can I help you? (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I answered. Well, you're not. Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19155	I did. I'm sure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19156	I guarantee with my life that you didn't, but probably when I moved on to the second amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19157	Don't do it with your life. I want to warn you of one thing now. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has said that this amendment to Article 13 is anti-constitutional, i.e. that it does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. So I ask you now to see what it takes for this amendment to be adopted because these amendments, as far as I know, which are rejected by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, cannot be adopted regardless of what the minister has accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19158	I'm going to ask that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs meet once more together... (Marko Djurisic, from place: To change his mind.) No, we're not prone to it. These are from the past some manners, so we have a lot of decisions now that we have to change laws and coordinate statutes and things. That's another topic. But to once again meet the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please, President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, once again sit with the Minister and his associates, to be present, and to see if this acceptance of the two amendments is possible by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or if your position is what it is. I can't go through with it. Thank you. Please, Gordana, do you want to speak under this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19159	Yes, thank you. I'm using time... (Marco Djurisic, from the site: I am looking for a word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19160	I had to shut you down. Marko Djurisic is still in the system and then... Can I give Mrs. Comic a word? Here you go. Gordana Komic. I'm trying to run a session, and I'm running for next time for one of the vice presidents, Mr. Djurisic. We'll keep that in mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19161	I thank you, I use the time of authorized representatives of the parliamentary group. On the occasion of the amendments to Articles 11 and 13, which the Proposer has accepted with a desire to help explain the constitutionality, unconstitution and ease to which it is routinely written. So, what are you working on in the amendment to Article 13? We add proposals to add a sentence that reads - the energy balance is delivered to the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia after the vote at the cabinet's session. I understand everyone who writes that it's not in accordance with the Constitution because you know what the Constitution says, who writes to whom and how it works, but there's not a single letter that's contrary to the Constitution. There is no obligation for the government, and it is important that the committee in charge be timely and timely informed of the energy balance at the same time as the decision taken at the cabinet's session. I would also ask my colleagues from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to understand that if they adopt this amendment at the session, they do not disagree in any way with their interpretation. This one needs a dialogue, but this one's mutually beneficial. So no one makes any special additional request to the government or to the minister, but is in the common interest that energy balances be delivered in time to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's competent committee. The topic is important because it's something that's going to change, and the unnecessary reason to talk about it on the board is when you get the government's decision. The benefit of that is that those who make us all sit here on time know what the ministry's assessment of energy balances is. This is important to know because the public has the right to know, and all the channels of communication with the public are beneficial and I think that the minister has done well by accepting a member who particularly stresses the importance of the public and the amendment to Article 13 which highlights the importance of the National Assembly's committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19162	Marko Djurisic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19163	Thank you, Mr. President. I must admit that instead of commending me for doing a job that the Secretary-General or the deputies who are helping you conduct the session and for paying attention to the fact that this amendment by the Committee on Constitutional and Law has been rejected as unconstitutional, which I have to admit that I didn't understand what was unconstitutional in this amendment, but well, I'm not a lawyer, nor a doctor of legal science, so maybe I don't understand, you've entered the controversy here with me about who when you change your mind. I will now remind you only of Thursday's decision by the Administrative Committee to take the most vulnerable employees in the Serbian Assembly... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19164	Are you replicating me? I mean, the cause of the call.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19165	No, I'm using the time of the president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19166	Spending to talk about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19167	That's right, yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19168	We talked about the constitutionality of decisions or all the decisions that have been made in the last 20 years?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19169	Don't waste my time. Let me spend my time the way I think it's best. Then, the same board, these same people less than 24 hours, cancel their decision. So if you want to talk about who's who and how responsible you are in your work, look first at these things, because these people who work with us today for today won't be paid for today, none of them, because they've met this overtime a month and they'll get their days off. When bigger bills come to them, I don't know what money they'll pay them off.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19170	You're obliged to talk about the subject. So, you can't spend your time as much as you want, but to my satisfaction you're wasting, but I'm obliged to comply with the Rules of Procedure to say that you can't talk about everything. So we're talking about amendments, and you can only talk about amendments because that's all you've come forward for, Your Honor. Please respect the Rules of Procedure and discuss the amendment. I don't mind you talking about whatever you want, but in your spare time or at a press conference. This isn't your time. You don't have time to talk about whatever you want, and if it's your intention to talk about anything in this House lately. As President of Parliament and Chairman, I do not allow you to discuss whatever you want, but only the amendments. As the session begins, you are the only one who wants to talk about whatever you want, which is unacceptable for most of the MPs in this House. I mean, 99%. You can watch the weather, it might look cute.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19171	I'm just waiting for you to let me go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19172	No, no. I won't let you go. You can't say what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19173	Do you know what I want now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19174	I'm clearly saying, loud and clear, I'm not going to let you talk about anything you want. You have an amendment to Article 16 and you can only speak in accordance with that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19175	I'm just asking these minutes and...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19176	I won't give you back one minute. It'll count as if you haven't even spoken at all. I want so much to get you back on track to discuss the amendments, and this time won't count at all, but talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19177	These three minutes and 10 seconds won't count?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19178	If you're talking about the amendment. If not, you know that there is one provision of the Rules of Procedure that says that the chairman can take two minutes away from the parliamentary group if he does not wish to comply with the Rules of Procedure. You know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19179	So you're not counting these three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19180	No, let me hear what your next sentence is, so I'll make a decision, and then I'll arbitration.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19182	Thank you for understanding that we're going to talk about the amendments. The word is Dr. Vladimir Orlic on the amendment to Article 16 if you forgot in the meantime. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Not on Article 16 but on Article 13.) I ask the MP not to suggest, but I say there will be a choice for the president or vice president, and I will be happy to vote for you. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19183	So, given the wording of this amendment only one note, perhaps what was contentious when deciding whether or not the amendment was valid, is that it was missed to specify what was going on with the current position 3. As far as I can see, it is proposed to introduce a new attitude 3 by adding, points 4. further get a new schedule, but nowhere does it specify what happens to the current attitude 3. So, I don't know if it's disputed until the end or not, but I would suggest paying attention to this detail when it comes to the further fate of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19184	Thank you. So, the Board of Administrative Affairs, please take your views. Not now, you're going to have to hold a session, so you can consider all this said and the acceptance of the amendment. I don't understand these questions enough. Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic together submitted the 16th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19185	Thank you, Mr. President. In Article 16, which defines energy performance, we wanted to further expand certain definitions, which is to add the word "separation" after "the production of oil products, and "oil and oil derivatives, biofuels and compressed natural gas" to the word "restricted natural gas". The ministry has rejected this by considering that, as I understand this argument, it is better to stand by them, by them, with no further clarifications and explanations proposed by our amendment. We think it would be better if the definitions in this article were done the way we suggested, because we don't think that narrows down the definitions of Article 16 of this Law. Some things explain that in the future there would be no dilemma whether something is or is not the process of producing liquid fuels and what happens to gas. We will see, if our amendment is not adopted, will it show in practice that this solution of ours has been better yet, that it does not happen to be interpreted differently from what we have proposed, and that the Ministry does not consider it necessary to define more precisely in accordance with our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19186	The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Paupga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19187	The esteemed chairperson, respected colleagues, as already mentioned by his colleague, Article 16 refers to the energy activities that have been counted, has a total of 28 in this Bill proposal, and we have only suggested that point 29 be added after point 28, namely that the production of geothermal energy is also an energy activity. We don't think the addition of this article to this point would disrupt anything. The reason why we believe this should be included in this law is because it is known that the AP Vojvodina area has a great potential for geothermal energy and this energy source belongs to the category of renewable, or green energy sources. According to us, he must be listed. This is otherwise in line with national and European definitions and strategies. The answer we received from the Ministry on this point states that the production of geothermal thermal energy is closer to the law governing mining activity and is clearly not supposed to be mentioned here. We don't think it would disrupt anything if it were listed and listed in the area of energy operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19188	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19189	Thank you. Just for a little while, I want the minister, and first of all, to the people of the government who are experts on these issues that have adopted this amendment, not thinking about having an evil intention or a bad desire, I'm glad that you have accepted that in these energy activities there is also the production of biodiversity. We think it's a production that's going to be producing the 21st century and that today, when we look at this silent world war that's being fought just for energy, it's going to be bioenergy that determines world relations in the 21st century. It's something that's very good and I think Serbia is taking this step forward. Thanks again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19190	Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19191	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, Article 16 refers to energy performance. I made an amendment with my colleagues, and I asked for the following item to be added to point “1”. Article 2(3) speaks of what are activities that are in line with market principles and what are of general interest. Article 3 is of general interest and this is the transmission of electricity, distribution of electricity, management of closed distribution systems, etc. I asked for electricity production to be counted in part of the general interest under the Law on Public Enterprises. I do not see at all the reason why my amendment is rejected, because I have explained in my explanation that the amendment is in line with the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises where, as a matter of fact, the general interest is determined and the production of electricity. Your services, Mr. Minister, have replied that the amendment is not accepted because the provisions of Article 2(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union have been laid down. The law on public undertakings stipulates that activities of general interest within the meaning of this law are activities which are as such defined by the Law in the fields of production, transmission and distribution of electricity, this solution contained in the Energy Act programme is not contrary to the above mentioned. I really don't understand why you refused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19192	The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19193	Thank you. The reasons you gave not to accept this amendment are that the unit used is in accordance with the uniform methodological rules for the making of the rules. I think that these unique methodological rules are not adequate for the simple reason that we think that there is a need to specify the mass, i.e. that energy activity can be carried out by public enterprises, i.e. companies, legal persons or entrepreneurs if they have a license to carry out energy activities, or if it is not otherwise prescribed by law. I'm afraid if we work on that methodology that's from old times, and we want to reform our society, we're not going anywhere. I think there's a danger of you showing up here very quickly with a proposal to amend and supplement the law, because you might be introducing another public enterprise that can carry out this activity. I don't see why the government would tie its hands to itself, and hire parliament to sit again in some weeks, like today, to change a member of the law that makes it impossible for you to have the possibility of more businesses. Then you should have abolished all and public enterprises to put only companies in place. Well, now, a public company belongs to companies. Whether it's public or not, it's irrelevant. This is also a well-intentioned amendment where we don't think there's a need to tie your hands, put handcuffs on your hands, without alluding to something bad. I think you should accept this. I really thank you for everything you have accepted so far and I urge you to consider until the end of the session and until the end of the vote to accept this proposal as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19194	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19195	This question now is not for this member, nor is it for this law, because if you say what you're saying now, which I can and agree with, because the methodology of writing the law does not determine my ministry, neither is this the first, nor is the last law to be written. However, they all have this one common definition to write everything in one. Look. Then you would have to change each member, because already in the next article 18 writes – energy subject. That means we should have every member, because there's at least one thing in every member. Here, Article 19. - the licence is issued at the request of the home legal person. There's a methodology everywhere that's written in one. We already have more public companies running energy operations at the moment: Serbia's public utility, Serbia's Elektroprivreda, Serbia's Power Network, Serbia, Transnafta. So, here it's not a matter of unity or plural, but it's a matter of methodology for making legal rules, which is obviously the way it is, and it's obviously the way it is in all the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19196	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19197	I fully appreciate what you said, but I don't appreciate that this methodology should be an obstacle to some changes in Serbia. Unfortunately, we have a situation that due to some of the old regulations we do not change new ones, or we do not bring new ones. We're referring to old times, because some things have never been done like that. Serbia should change in the 21st century and a methodology that is bad should change. If you say today that you have more and more public enterprises dealing with this activity, you are already committing a violation, because here it is very unequivocally defined that there is only one company. So, it's not a matter of methodology here, I think this is an essential thing and it can be challenged. I wouldn't want anyone to have problems tomorrow. If we can put in some legal or technical order a mass, one, or as often put in for male or female withdrawals, it would be very good, if it were you who introduced the change of methodology for the better, because this limits you to do. I don't know how you're going to say tomorrow – we have more, if the law says only one thing, and we have more. So we don't even realize this law's actual state of mind because some methodology, some bureaucrats, is holding us back from doing it. It's bad for me, it needs to change, and I urge you to be the one to start it. You're practically going to be a methodology reformer, which isn't bad at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19198	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19199	Thank you, Madam President. I would call for the amendment not to be adopted, for the reason that, despite what we have heard, this text, as proposed by the promoter does not say: "only one", there are no words anywhere: "only one". It says: “A company that meets a certain condition, ” which means, in practice, one that meets a certain condition, so as many as there are, there are so many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19200	Thank you. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19201	If you'll excuse me, I will explain this amendment to call on an amendment before it says that energy activity can carry out a public enterprise, not public enterprises, but one. So there's no possibility of plural. I don't know how my colleague saw it. I urge you to continue to correct the law in general, it's not a problem, it can be done on the board, and you get something that will allow you to work in accordance with the law. Because when we adopt this law, at that moment our public enterprises are breaking the law, or we need to see what a single company is doing, and these others need to be disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19202	So this amendment was accepted by the government. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic and Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19203	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and ministers, once again grateful for your understanding. So, we MPs of the DS Group have submitted several amendments to essential nature, which substantially amend the law, I think are better. We have also submitted several amendments to technical or linguistic nature. That's where we wanted to actually just better define a member that's pretty good and defined like this. I find these language changes at least a little bit better. For this reason, thanks again for the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19204	Thank you. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Katarina Rakic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Vojislav Vujic, Zoltan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Aleksandar Senić, Milosav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted the amendments. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19205	Thank you. Article 22 speaks of licensing, and it says that the applicant should be established or registered for the performance of energy activities, in order to meet the prescribed conditions. Point 5 of Article 1) states - the applicant fulfils the financial conditions for carrying out energy performance. We have asked for more precise arrangements to be made for the conditions that the legal person to whom the licence is to be issued, because it may happen that the legal person has sufficient financial resources at the moment of obtaining the licence and that it becomes insolvent in the period thereafter, and it is also necessary to meet the additional criteria for the criteria to be prescribed by the Agency. We have also said that, in point 5, the criteria and criteria prescribed by the agency should be met, among other things. In paragraph 3, which we have requested to delete, it is said that the foreign legal person referred to in Article 19(1) of this Act shall be entitled to perform its duties and supply of large electricity to issue if the conditions laid down in point 1 are met. 5,7 and 9 of this Article and the other conditions laid down in Article 27(7) of this Act. We wonder how it is thought in the first place that a foreign legal person proves the terms and conditions, that certain conditions are met to carry out its activities, or whether bankruptcy, bankruptcy or liquidation has been initiated? Because this article does not specify whether it proves its correctness by any valid document or by any means correct. You still owe me, Mr. Minister, for Article 16(3), is electricity production a public interest or not a public interest? This rejection of the amendment turns out to be no longer a public interest. If so, then accept the amendment to Article 16(3). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19206	The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19207	When this amendment is now in question, we were unable to accept it for reasons prescribed by reason. The Agency may not prescribe any conditions for the issue of licences, nor criteria, nor criteria, and any energy entity which obtains the licence shall be obliged to meet all prescribed conditions for the period for which the licence has been issued. So, the law in that part is perfectly clear. When it comes to your amendment to Article 16, I thought you could fully understand the point. It's just that we can't have the directives, but the whole point of this job is that the production activity has to be market-based. As soon as there is market activity, this means that we do not give more action than the general interest. So, just introducing a market into the activity of electricity production more us at the level that it's only a mere activity of general interest. So now we have one replacement thesis, so when you ask me if it's of general interest? Yes, it is of fundamental interest to this country, the production of electricity, but in that classification, what is a measure of general interest. Production cannot be because it is a full market activity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19208	Thank you. There's no such thing as a replica, but you can do it by amendment, now it's your business. Last time I gave you a copy, there was no basis for replication. You want to get the amendment? (Yes) The word has Dr. Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19209	Thank you, just a few seconds. Then Article 2 and 3 here are surpluses, are you in part of the id of general interest, in a position that speaks of general interest you state that it is a transfer of distribution of electricity and managed and closed distribution systems, storage and management, storage, etc., and if it is so, remove attitude 3. is we directly contrary to the Law on Public Enterprises. If you hadn't put attitude 3. I'd understand that since it's under the new Energy Act, it's becoming productive, right? This applies to market principles and electricity production is no longer a public interest, but you state what the public interest is and then it turns out in fact that we are in collegiate with the Law on Public Enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19210	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19211	Thank you, Madam President. Therefore, the specific position 3 in this article deals with the conditions prescribed for foreign legal persons and which, as it stands in writing and what we heard two minutes ago, is, in fact, controversial in which way these conditions will be determined whether these conditions are satisfied or not. Two notes. First, the fact that there is some uncertainty about the mechanism of determination is not a reason to eliminate any obligation, and the obligation also implies whether someone is in bankruptcy and whether they are currently authorised to engage in certain activities. The second thing, as far as concrete mechanisms are concerned, I think they're being treated by the next member, Article 27, in Section 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19212	Thank you. So it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19213	Replica colleagues, just for a few seconds. Mr. Secretary and I were just talking about Article 16 instead of what you were talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19214	I apologize for Article 22, it was, now that you've talked about, I don't know, but the MP didn't do anything wrong, and what you were talking about is another matter. Minister, do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19215	There's really been a misunderstanding here. At this point, it is a debate on Article 22, but my colleague Bradic returned me to Article 16 and asked me to explain, and since I have today a high tolerance threshold for Mr Bradic, because this morning after 55 minutes of waiting to begin the Committee on Economy and Energy, because he did not have a quorum, Mr Bradic, as an MP of the opposition gave a quorum for the start of the board, and I am particularly grateful for that. So I'm going to comment on every single thing with him, even if sometimes they get a little out of context.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19216	No problem, just to clear my suspicions. Ambassador Orlic was the only one right in the O.R., so thank you. He spoke on the subject, and what you were saying, from your point of view, that the MP came to the session, that's another thing, but the truth is, because of the public, Orlic is right. I must inform the citizens that some MPs could not come at the scheduled time because of the weather. So, depending on where any of us live, some have come exactly, some have had to be a little late. Well, I, who often have no excuse, have to say, to the public, that these MPs have an excuse, but we're not going to talk about it, we're going back to the amendment. The word has been given by the MP Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19217	I respect the great respect of Mr. Minister for the Proposer of the Amendment, but when we talk about Article 22, he talks about the criteria and criteria prescribed by the Agency. There is not enough understanding why the Agency is the one who prescribes the criteria, but issues certain certificates. It should not be forgotten that the Energy Agency is working with European energy agencies, that their work is also envisaged in European directives and that everything that is in the Agency's jurisdiction, and this law gets even more weight, just as one of the independent bodies, which in professional terms, because members of the council have been chosen from the point of view of the profession, not any political proposals. It simply needs to lead to any misunderstandings on the functioning of the market, in general in the fields of electricity and gas and those involved in the market, it needs to be removed. As far as public enterprises are concerned, it is undeniable that the Law on Public Enterprises will suffer major changes in the future, because we are passing laws that are in line with European regulation, namely, the Law on Public Enterprises, which has had its changes and complements, will require new system solutions. Second, public enterprises, in the field of energy today, are performing certain activities and for the sake of the state, but also for the sake of the market. Over time, as the market opens, simply many actors in the market for energy, will define who will deal with the market and who will deal exclusively with public activity. So it is quite acceptable why certain amendments are not accepted in this part. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19218	Thank you. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19219	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Minister, the honourable fellow Members and fellow MPs, this Article 28 refers to the consent to store and supply for its own needs. I'll take so much time to read a piece of this article to figure out what the objective of our amendment was. Namely - For the storage of oil, oil and biofuels for its own own capacity needs over five tonnes and for the supply of its own means of transport at its own transport stations for which no licence is issued, the consent given by the Ministry shall be obtained by means of a solution within 30 days of the date of submission of the application. The storage and supply agreement for its own needs shall be issued provided that storage facilities and their own supply stations meet the conditions and requirements laid down by technical regulations, energy efficiency regulations, fire protection regulations and explosions, as well as environmental regulations. Evidence of the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article 2 shall be annexed to the requirements for the issuing of consent for storage and supply for its own needs. And what is important – evidence of compliance with the conditions laid down in Article 2 is the report of the competent inspector. We have made an amendment in which we have said that in the position of the 2nd member, it is entrusted to the autonomous province to issue consent for storage and supply for its own needs for entities based on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I have reason to believe that the AP entrusted with inspection tasks in the field of energy, the AP Vojvodina's competent authority of the autonomous province, for the sake of more efficient work, should also issue consent to the storage and supply of its own needs. The answer we have received as a reason for the refusal of this amendment is that it is not accepted because the tasks of inspection supervision of the application of the rules in the field of labelling and the quality of the oil derivatives agreed with the draft law are carried out by a Republic market inspection. This inspection shall also be carried out on oil storage facilities, etc. You can't see anywhere in the text what the job of the Ministry's inspection is. According to this, it turns out that only the market inspector gives consent and that there is no inspection in this area, although I will return to this article, evidence of compliance with the terms of this article, as it reports to the competent inspector. It's about technical conditions, not just market conditions. It's just not clear. Either there's something missing, or really this surveillance is just a market inspection. That is why we believe that our amendment in this area should be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19220	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19221	Thank you. I'm using the time of authorized representatives of the DS parliamentary group. The explanation, as it is already routinely done, with my hope that this will be changed, that the arguments will really be reasons, is in direct conflict with the proposed text of the members of this law, because the consent to store and supply for the own needs of the issue provided that storage facilities and their own supply stations meet the conditions and requirements laid down by technical regulations, energy efficiency regulations, fire protection and explosion regulations, as well as environmental protection regulations. The control of the application of these rules cannot only work as a market inspector. So either the explanation is wrong, or we need an explanation and who's going to report the compliance of the permit, or the requirement with regulations that include both energy efficiency and fire protection and environmental protection? In this respect, this amendment should be supported for the simple reason that there are resources for this job to be done and that, in the Law on Transfer of Jurisdiction, it is in line to carry out the tasks. What happens on the ground, the people who do this inspection will certainly do it, because we won't, we can't have the duplication of the duties or the inspection services sector with the hope that there'll be a single inspection service law, so they'll do it anyway. When they're already working, then it's good for the ministry to leave room for the competent authority to issue a solution. The second-degree stays, there's no dispute at all. In that sense, I think it's good for the ministry to accept such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19222	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19223	We are now once again, because I really have no problem, nor a shred of vanity, that when I hear an explanation from the MPs on the spot we accept the amendment and I have accepted two amendments as such and so far accepted. But here's what we've done again. This solution, as the law suggests, and this explanation that we have given is absolutely correct and correct. The province and its inspectors are taking part in this in the first stage so that someone will ever exercise that right to have that warehouse and talk about meeting the conditions. Now this is further control, and it's not even my inspection, it's market surveillance. It is simple and defined in Article 367(1), 2, 3, 4 and 5 where it is said that supervision of enforcement, relating to marketing, monitoring, the quality of the oil derivatives is carried out by the Ministry of Trade, through market inspectors, in accordance with the law governing trade and the law governing consumer protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19224	Thank you. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19225	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is very similar to the amendment submitted by the previous speaker, or MP. It won't be the way you say it. Therefore, Article 28(1) states – for the storage of oil, oil and biofuels, for its own capacity needs over five tonnes and for the supply of its own means of transport at its own transport stations, for which no licence is issued, the consent of the ministry is obtained by means of a 30-day solution. So, the solution is issued by the Ministry of Energy. I realized that you were now talking about a second-degree procedure, in which the right to control has no ministry. This isn't about the right control, this is about issuing consent. I believe that the Law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina has been violated here, where it has the right to inspection supervision and in some way to suspend that authority. I believe, if this is true on the basis of this consensus, that you have in some way suspended this law and I do not think that it is good, that the inspectors who have it qualifications cannot do this job in the area of the AP Vojvodina, but the inspector from Belgrade will come for it. I don't think it's a second-degree procedure, but it's very clear here that it's a matter of issuing consent, which is a first-degree procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19226	The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The word is Hope Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19227	Here is just as a follow-up, practically Article 28 and Article 29, where it is said – the storage and supply agreement for its own needs is temporarily withdrawn, and the member refers exactly to that - if the holder of this consent is not maintained in the proper and secure state of the storage facilities and own stations for supplying its own means of transport in accordance with technical regulations etc. We simply call again on the same reasoning, believing that the AP has certain competences both in terms of inspection and these consents and that it is perfectly understandable and logical to do this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19228	Does the minister want a word? We'll move on to another one, so you pick up. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19229	This amendment concerns, in fact, the right, that is, the power to withdraw a licence if someone who has a storage facility for their own purposes does not carry out the job adequately, or violates the legal system in that area. I find it impossible for the province to exercise the jurisdiction it already has under the Law of Jurisdiction and to suspend that right here, and I think it's bad. I think decentralisation in these and other affairs is very important. You're the president of the assembly you mentioned earlier, you came from Novi Sad this morning. You saw how dangerous it was when the highway was uncleaned, until Beška no vehicle passed for road cleaning. Don't let us have some people going to rescue people out of the trash again today, if anyone could do it. This is the responsibility of the Republic, such as in this case in the field of energy, it is possible to decentralised business and to give business to people who have qualifications for it, who can already do so according to the given powers of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19230	The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word is Hope Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19231	I just want to point out, these amendments that we've been adopted not to get the impression that, as well as this amendment, they're capital issues. In fact, it is about amendments to the editorial character, as I mentioned in the principle debate, obviously that the law was written at great speed, so there were letters and other errors. We have just drawn attention to these mistakes with our amendments, so it is the impression that many of our amendments have been adopted. And this is one of those amendments that's only about editorial character. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19232	National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 39th amendment. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19233	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ministers, a member of 39, deals with the Agency's council and he says, firstly, the Agency's authority is the advice of the Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Council), which makes all decisions on questions from the Agency's jurisdiction, mostly votes, from the total number of votes of the Council, unless otherwise prescribed by this law and statute. We have suggested that, after saying "other than", they add words - in matters concerning the issue of the issue of the authorisation of energy performance as referred to in Article 16(1) point (b). 3), 4), 5, 7), 8), 9) and 11), Articles 50 and 52 to seek unanimous decision by members of the Council. Why did we say that? Because these issues, which I am, this point 16 includes: transmission of electricity to the transmission system, distribution of electricity for the management and management of the distribution system, distribution of electricity and management of closed distribution systems, supply of large electricity, management of the regulated electricity market, transport and management of transport systems for natural gas, distribution and management of natural gas distribution systems. I believe that such decisions must be taken unanimously, not by revote, and that you wrote that the amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution significantly complicates decision-making and is not a practice for other regulators either. I don't understand how it complicates making a decision. What is the problem with the fact that things that are of vital interest and which are related to the reduction of the costs of accession, the level of customer compensation and generally the security of energy supply and energy supplies are not delivered unanimously? I think we all agree on that. There shouldn't be a vote. With this amendment, we reduce the possibility of lobbying within the council. We're going to a unanimous decision. And what is the problem for these vitals that are very important for the final customers, for the citizens of Serbia, to make a unanimous decision. There's no problem. If something's right, what's the problem with being unanimous? I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19234	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19235	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, so everyone would like all decisions made by independent institutions to be unanimous. You know, we'd also like committees to be unanimous in a congregation meeting when certain significant legal decisions are reached. But it's just not possible. It is, in fact, the essence of democracy, that you give every member of the council the right to be independent, which is why they are called independent, because no one can influence their opinion in making decisions. On the other hand, expertly. They have enough knowledge to make certain decisions and give their voice to certain decisions. That's what you're quite right about, let's say, when it comes to the Energy Agency, when it comes to the Competition Protection Commission, surely decisions should be unanimous. But that's not possible. This is not possible here or in Serbia, it is not possible in any independent institution, especially when we talk about European integration, especially when we talk about energy community members, each of them has its own energy agency as an independent regulatory body and their decisions are never legally binding to be unanimous. For that reason, I'm sure Mr. Secretary couldn't adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19236	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19237	This law is what we really do, in many places, with some control mechanisms. The mechanisms that define the procedure in one quality, optimal way, the way that is whole. We stand firmly at the point of view that the proposal to take on the advice of this decision and this whole set of decisions that you have proposed are made unanimously, simply, not consistent from the point of view of procedure, process. I repeat, it's not part of any regulation with us when it comes to other regulators, and finally, it's not a practice anywhere in the world, so I really don't see what the quality of this is. And right to tell you, we are absolutely against the adoption of this amendment, we simply don't see any functionality of it, and I think that even in certain situations, it could prevent the functionality of the Agency's work and more open up the possibility of lobbying than what you're talking about. That means that in that situation it's enough for someone to isolate one member of the agency and stop the whole process and block something. We are against this amendment and we cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19238	The word has Dr. Blagoja Bradić, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19239	A few sentences. In European practice you should also know about the energy community itself, decisions are made by simple majority, qualified majority or unanimous. So that's the practice there is. What is more important, the practice of regulators is completely different from the bodies that choose the advice of the agency, to the way decisions are made. It seems they haven't told you that BiH's decisions are being made in Derek, they are taking one-off decisions from all members of the commission, and Derek is the State Regulatory Directorate for Electricity, a pandan for our agency. Practice exists, it's a matter of goodwill and political decisions because we are talking here, dear friends, about political decisions. You have the right to your political decision, and what we say, it's our political decision, our political vision of what it should look like. If you think we should open the market when we're not ready, you'll open the market. We think differently, give us the chance to think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19240	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19241	Thank you. So support the attitude not to adopt the amendment for the reasons we heard. Can it be determined that there is another different practice in one or two places in the world, here is not a question, but a question of efficiency in the work of this organ. So, to insist on the absolute existence of 100% consent, I don't see that there's either space or need. With that in mind, I support the view that the amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19242	Thank you. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19243	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, we wanted our amendment to narrow down the powers of the President of the Council, which are defined in Article 54, and we believe that these two areas of Article 3 that are currently in the law, should only be carried out by the President of the Council more appropriate to carry out the whole council, which is to ensure that citizens know the part-time work in the case of the dispute between energy subjects, between the energy entity and the users of the system which is being resolved in accordance with the law governing the intervention, provide the parties with expert assistance in the dispute, and all information available to prepare the documentation necessary for the intervention process and under two, shall consider the procedure concerning the submissions of natural and legal persons in connection with the performance of the obligations of operators of the electricity supplier system, electricity supplier, natural gas supplier and public gas supplier in accordance with this law. So, we believe that these two responsibilities, or these two things in the work cycle, should not be exclusively part of the work of the president of the agency as an individual, but rather that this should be done by the four-member agency and the president as defined by this Article 39. We do not agree with the Ministry's reply, or the Government, which she said in her explanation for not accepting this amendment, that the proposed solution that significantly complicates decision-making is not a practice for other regulators, because then the question arises if we only give these powers to the president, then what the other four members of the Agency do and what they do if they do not decide, let's say, in complaints, but only the President of the Agency does as one person. The question arises whether there should be members of the Agency, but enough is one person, let him be called President, Director, however, of those agencies, so that he decides on everything, not that the other members who can only contribute to their knowledge and experience, because that is why they are elected as members of the Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19244	Thank you. Minister Antic requests a moment of consultation. I'm sorry, we have to keep going. You call back later if you've noticed anything. Minister, are you thinking about adopting? Here, this is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19245	If I may help, the Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister, look only at the Statute of the Energy Agency. So, in general, the work programme, the Statute adopts the National Assembly through its board of directors. That's why I'm saying if the amendment is possible, that we don't come to a certain legal trap as soon as we get here. I was just trying to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19246	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19247	I believe that after the adoption of this law and the Statute of the Agency will probably have to agree, so I see no reason why, if it is not accepted, that, in that sense, the Statute of the Energy Agency is changed. I am sure that through the changes that the new law makes, if we adopt it today, there will be a need to bring the Statute into line, and this can also be the one change that will be brought into line in the new statute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19248	Thank you. Minister, are you looking for a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Blagoje Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19249	Just to thank the minister and the ministry and the assembly majority for accepting things that are of a technical nature. We don't agree on the point. Okay, that's what seeing things is supposed to look like in the Republic of Serbia. At least we agreed to start with these technical things and I thank you on behalf of the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19250	Thank you. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Blagoje Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19251	Article 41 says that the president and members of the Council can be elected by persons who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have a high professional education of technical, legal or economic profession and at least ten years of work experience in the field of energy. The President, members of the Council and the staff of the Agency shall exercise the right and obligations of working relationship in accordance with the general act. The amendment reads that after saying "in the field of energy", the point is deleted and adds: "or areas of importance for the performance of the Agency's tasks". I am responsible for not accepting the amendment because the Agency is a regulatory body in the field of energy. I don't understand what you wanted with that answer? I would like to suggest to you that I am of the opinion that there is a need to expand the circle of people who can compete for the seat of a member or president of the Council, because we only limit ourselves to people who are closely tied to the profession, which is from the ESM, EPS, "Energogas". I think that even the people who are from the university of this profession, it says, and I thus interpret it and have the right to my interpretation, so I ask you to accept this member to give to other people who are respected, who have a reference, who are professional, who have envious experience professionally, that they can apply to the Council, and not only those who are closely related to these large public enterprises. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19252	The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19253	I really don't see what's not clear here. So, we said it could be a person who has a high professional education of technical, legal or economic profession. So we're expanding the scope of people, but all these professional titles have to be from the field of energy, not from the work of a public enterprise. Simply, what else would it be and what other area of importance would it be for energy affairs? I do not see what is "a power of importance for the performance of the Agency"? The only important thing to do is energy because it is the Energy Agency. I don't think this amendment makes any sense, and as such, we couldn't accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19254	The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19255	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, obviously one misunderstanding, and I think that the lack of information that the Energy Agency is dealing with. Practically, it was formed by the adoption of a second package of EU directives by adopting the 2011 law and I think that certain DS colleagues should teach little about colleagues from the New Democratic Party, because there is obviously a lack of understanding and European integration and a second package of directives, as well as a third package, which we are simply on the way to adopt, especially when we are talking about independent regulatory bodies, the Energy Agency, and especially if we are talking about wanting professionalisation and we want independent regulatory bodies to have professional people. Thus, expertise is meant for the area for which the Agency was formed. If we're talking about the Energy Agency, then all the areas of action and the functioning of the members involved are in the field of energy. It's a good will to simply open up the professions that can be tied to this area. It is good that, besides technical sciences, they can deal with a particular profession and economists, who have tied their life span to energy. That's good, and I don't see what business would be of any importance to the Agency's affairs without being connected to energy. It simply shows the basic knowledge of this law at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19256	Thank you. National MP Marko Djurisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19257	I thank you for the advice we receive here, but we didn't come here to be taught by anyone but to discuss the laws, to make our proposals so that we could improve ourselves legally, to criticize them when it comes to the principle debate, so I don't think it was appropriate for the discussion to refer any member of the group to teach any other parliamentary group here. But if we want to teach, I am very in the mood to teach and, here, today we can repeat that lesson from Wednesday and Thursday, so I invite you to prepare yourself for a long session with lots of lessons about this law, about other laws on the agenda of European integration. You're from recently in that area, so maybe you're not doing well. It would be a great pleasure to teach you in that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19258	Thanks, but I don't want to repeat Wednesday and Thursday's session. I don't think anyone wants to. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 64th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19259	Once again, gratitude for understanding and accepting technical matters. Thank you to the colleagues who have been educating us here all along. It's nice to listen to someone who was a student until yesterday to become a professor and teach us.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19260	Please, MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19261	The Honorable Chairman, I am really trying to be tolerant, reasonable and listen to everything, but if someone is trying to educate me on democracy, and I have spent 20 years of political work teaching them democracy, I am extremely glad that they are teaching me now, because they probably have new skills. That's nice and commendable. I didn't want to say anything else, without wanting to cause replicas and without wanting to speak to someone personally. I usually speak in discussions, professions, ministers, and we always discuss the subject, so please, at least if I can colleagues who report to talk about what we're talking about, whether it's in their vision of politics or not, and whether we're educated or not, because I've graduated from very serious schools, public schools. I've got a high-school calling, unlike some who've graduated from high school and expensive, so I'd like to ask you to respect me so much while I'm in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19262	Thank you. Everyone respects you, of course. The word has been made by the MP Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, I pray for an amendment. Please don't replicate now in each other's lessons.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19263	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, there is respect for all those who want to improve legal solutions, but I believe that somewhere in expensive schools, technical schools and the Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade are based on which I can really make my contribution to the Energy Act. Therefore, the subject of the amendment concerns that the area of importance for the performance of the Energy Agency is practically an area of energy defined by the member of the law. Therefore, the amendment cannot be accepted because there are no other jobs of any importance for the performance of the Energy Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19264	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19265	In 106, I think he's hurt, that the speaker can only talk about the subject. You kept bringing me back to the amendments and asking me to talk about the amendments. Here, a colleague was now talking about an amendment to Article 41 that we have completed, not an amendment to Article 64 that the government has accepted. I'm asking for a little attention, because if we want to teach, we have to watch out for class.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19266	Thank you. I don't know what the chairman was wrong about. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You did not warn the people's letter. All right. I think there's only been a speech error and the MP was speaking for the first time and now at Article 64. Please, Aleksandra Tomic, don't make any mistakes in quoting members. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 65th amendment. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19267	The President-in-Office, respected ministers and respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this member refers to renewable energy sources, i.e. national targets and a plan for the use of renewable energy sources. Here in Article 65, which is being discussed, it is said that the use of energy from renewable sources is in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and that the Government, on a proposal from the ministry, is adopting a National Action Plan for the Use of Renewable Energy Sources, so the National Action Plan says that all it contains and point 7 are measures to achieve planned shares of energy from renewable sources, which in particular include incentive measures, co-operation mechanisms, co-operation between local, regional and republican authorities, resource development policy, biomass for energy purposes, as well as their effects. Our amendment was that in this Article 7, after these last words, "the policy of the development of biomass resources for energy", they added: "the development of geothermal potential resources for energy". I remind you that Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic said in his 32nd exhibition that one of the strategic goals in the energy sector is to exploit all available resources. How will it be available for the use of geothermal energy, which I have already mentioned as a potential present in Vojvodina, if we do not define policy and all other system parameters for national and sustainable use for it? The amendment was rejected on the grounds that it does not comply with the Directive, i.e. to define only biomass. I would just remind myself that in the light of this law, which speaks of respect for the directive, it is mentioned in one place, a real parallel, the requirement of the directive is to allow the Agency to impose fines up to 10% of the annual turnover of the system operator, it is said in the explanation, however, that requirement for a directive because of other laws governing the imposition of penalties could not be prescribed, which means that we do not respect the directive in that area, or the Agency will be able to give only warnings, warnings, etc., meaning that it will not have this clause provided for by the Directive. This means that in some segments we can be consistent followers of the directive, and in some we do not have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19268	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19269	Here we can turn this story around and look at it from different angles. What's the fact is that, under one, this geothermal potential cannot be developed. It represents the natural resource and we have it as much as we have. We can develop the use and processes of using geothermal potentials and what's more important than this controversy and whether we formulate it in one way or another is that geothermal potentials are part of our Action Plan to use renewable energy sources. It is something we really plan to do seriously and without any dilemma we are already working on and without any dilemma will be potential for Serbia. We report this to the Government, and it seems to me that through what Article 66 defines, yes, we report to the Government, but we can also report to the Parliament on this report and that you have one full insight into how these, I say, processes that aim to use energy from renewable sources, with a special emphasis on geothermal ones. We can hold on to all this a special session and committee on it that as a ministry, above all my associates and state secretary, Mrs Filipovic, but also assistant for renewable sources, Prof. The Banjac draws the matter closer to the people's MPs and to all those who are interested in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19270	I thank Minister Antic. The People's Messenger Gordana Komic has the word:
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19271	Thank you. I support the amendment submitted by colleagues Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic, Dejan Chapo. I understand the reason, because it's easy to give such an explanation. The renewables can count the tide, and the waves, and we don't, because we have to have or have, as much as we like. Geothermal potentials for energy are an important thing and I am glad that the minister has planned to propose to the Committee a periodic report on what the government will do when it comes to geothermal potentials, especially that Serbia is waiting only seemingly unrelated to this amendment or to the law one big job on water bodies, on regional co-operation, on the map of groundwater, on everything that will also be part of the directive. If even this amendment is not adopted, I do not think it jeopardises the content of the directive. It is important again to remain recorded in the government's commitments to the National Assembly, and to inform citizens, which is why we all work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19272	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19273	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see there's a strange order, but I don't mind if the advantage always has opposition. So, no matter what my turn, but, Mr. Becic, I never object when you favor members of opposition parties and MPs, since I was more of an opposition MP than an MP who supported the government. As for this Article 65, I am working to vote in favour of the amendment submitted by the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina MPs, because, especially Srem, from Indija to Bogatic, he is very rich in thermal waters. They are also a source of energy, in particular they can benefit if they produce heat energy, agricultural development, heating of greenhouses, but, also, these thermal waters can also be used to cool certain objects and to replace large amounts of electricity, which are used in similar situations in summer to cool down certain types of objects and I think it can complement electricity. What I haven't seen from this law, I haven't seen anywhere in renewable sources of waste electricity production, or I haven't read the law carefully enough, so I have to go to some lecture, but I haven't seen the production of electricity from municipal waste, which is also practice in Europe. I think it belongs to renewable energy sources and that the former law, which will be put out of force, has been entered into by law. Also, renewable energy sources include biomass electricity production, which is very important for the development of agriculture, because by producing energy from biomass, we can cheape agricultural production, especially milk and meat, if we're smart enough to use 400,000 hectares of unprocessed land and if we restore the stock, let's say, add it to 200 thousand cows. In such situations, each of these farms that would have several hundred acres and 200 cows could produce electricity from a single megawatt biomass. I am even for the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Construction to create a plan with typical farms that would be built in Serbia and that, apart from the production of milk and meat, would include the production of electricity in a combined way, not only by biomass, or gas generators, but also by panels that, with the energy of the sun, would generate electricity. In such a way, with the production of energy, with production from the sun, from biomass, perhaps even from the wind, we would be able to be cheap and competitive in the production of milk and meat, as we are at great risk because customs have fallen and agricultural production, especially in the production of meat and milk, threatens to completely flood our market and to destroy our livestock fund. This is one way to be equipped in the future and to be competitive in agricultural production, to make it cheap, because compared to the production of meat and milk, we will also produce electricity that will thus succeed in producing the cheap and creating the competitiveness of our agriculture, primarily in domestic and surrounding markets. With this in mind, I note that we have 400,000 hectares of unprocessed land and that on such land we can grow olives and produce at least 500 thousand tonnes, of which we can get, say, 200 thousand tonnes of biodiesel, if we define ourselves, so we can come into a situation where agriculture provides energy for the processing of agricultural land in more than 50% and provide electricity for the processing of agricultural products, that what farmers, farmers, farmers produce that workers, who are now jobless, process these agricultural products make cheaper food products and encourage energy, agricultural production sufficiently competitive. I'm ready to receive lessons from the parties of the former regime. One was talking about visions, but I'm afraid the parties of the former regime had no vision, but had more commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19274	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, in principle, I said, and I think we have forgotten this, probably the proposings were doing the amendment, or the proposal, that the Serbian Government, following the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the Energy Act 6.6, practically in June 2013, adopted the National Action Plan on Renewable Energy Sources, which was also an obligation under a certain procedure of the Energy Community. The National Action Plan refers to a plan to build Serbia, i.e. participation in renewable energy sources is 27%. The plan is 1092 megawatts of projected potential. Of which half should go to the wind, 438 megawatts to mini power plants, 100 megawatts to biomass, 30 megawatts to biofuel and slightly less, the rest, of 30 megawatts to all these other types of renewable energy sources. What is important to say, which is that Serbia is in some local self-government, we have had the opportunity to see in the means of public information, it has already begun to apply biomass to heat, and this is a good example for Sremska Mitrovica. Yesterday, there was a good contribution to how large the savings are in the use of biomass, right in public utility companies at the local level, but that requires a high level of knowledge and awareness of it, investments that can be submitted to local self-government investing in its public utility to start producing electricity on biomass. Many other types of energy need to be introduced. This is what my colleague Maria was talking about. What do we get by that? It has been seen that through many sectoral analyses, i.e. other legal solutions, such as the Waste Management Act, we have a story about the electricity that we get from waste, we have the management of the organic industry, and that's the part that concerns the Law on Agriculture, the Law on the Editing of Veterinary Activity, that we need to take that part into account. So there is a lot where these sectoral analyses, or other legal solutions, should be, and I think a lot has been changed and already inserted, which will cover many other types of renewable energy production. I think that what the Government has done so far according to what the European Energy Community has asked it to write, to use all sustainability criteria and certification schemes for all types of renewable sources, has given through the National Investment Plan, fulfilled the 2009 directive on promoting the use of electricity from renewable sources, and the task is to promote through this law and the next legislative solutions as much as possible, i.e. to open the door to foreign direct investments in this area. So this amendment certainly was not able to be accepted now, but nevertheless, the acceptance of such an amendment is certain that many non-renewable renewable energy sources would be forgotten. So I believe that in the next legal solutions from other areas they will be covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19276	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19277	I'd like to pick up where my esteemed colleague left off. As you have privileged consumers who cost the Republic of Serbia's budget, because the cost of their social status pays the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Both in the privileged producers, the cost of production is paid by the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is what we should take care of when we talk about privileged consumers. In theory and practice, it is very difficult to coordinate the production and balance of electricity. Today, when I talk about the operators of the energy system, then we forget that the key problem of the future is in the functioning of the energy system, above all, in the balance of electricity. Today we face losses and charges, but these are the problems that are overcome. Today it happens that in peaks, in certain countries of the European community, you have too much energy that is free. What needs to be pointed out, of course, the Republic of Serbia must take care of this today in the world's top energy public. You practically have two concepts, one European and one Anglo-Saxon. We are in a situation that precisely because of sustainable energy sources, the cost of energy per household in Germany costs several hundred euros more per year than the American model where these costs are not available. Today, in the European community, there is a major controversy that is only in the announcement of the future financing of sustainable energy sources. I agree that today we are late with directives that are undeniable and that say you should have 27% from renewable sources, but it should not surprise anyone if these directives are changed very quickly. I think the Government of the Republic of Serbia should be extremely careful about granting permits and licences with sustainable energy sources, because we will be in a situation that we do not have to follow the trend.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19278	The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19279	I just want to replicate my colleagues. When we mention Germany and America, America is not a signator of the Kyoto protocol, but the cost of living, if you were to balance what we do as a damage in the environment, and what we could avoid if all the waste from the environment, so both biomass and waste, and everything else, we would use it to get far, because that would no longer have dumps, the way we now have, we wouldn't have struggled with wild dumps. As an example of getting you to know that Novi Sad pays 40 million dirans a year to carry out wild dumps. It's like opening a window and throwing money right out the window. It's fate in all parts of Serbia. How do we think we're developing tourism, how do we think we're developing healthy food production, drinking healthy water, not giving examples from the recent past that we've led to this because of our concern for the environment. If something can be used as an alternative source of energy, then you should use it because you should always make a balance where it's lost and where it's won. If we were to measure those costs, I'm not sure my colleague would be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19280	The word is made by MP Goran Kovacevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19281	I totally agree with you when you talk about protecting the environment, but I make a clear difference with you, that it costs. Sustainable energy sources cannot serve to protect the environment. They cost nine times more than classic commercial sources in electricity production. Is the price of nine times that is paid more from the budget directly or indirectly, in fact, than the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the price for environmental protection? If environmental protection is important, it must be financed in a different way. The difference between the American model and the German model is essential and it speaks about the competitiveness of the American and German economies. That is why a key question arises, if German companies as well as natural persons pay a higher price, it makes production in Germany more uncompetitive. This is the essence of the problem and this is the essence of the opening of the European Community's energy policy. Not a price of 400, 500 euros paid by households but a price paid by large companies, which makes the cost less competitive than American ones. It is undeniable that when environmental policy is conducted, it should be managed and it has no dilemma whatsoever, but it is also undeniable that we have to take care, as we take care of other costs in the Republic of Serbia's budget and the costs that go to privileged electricity producers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19282	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19283	Thank you. Just to remind all of us that it is an amendment that requires the addition of a resource development policy, the geothermal potential for energy purposes that are submitted by fellow MPs and that it would be good to talk about this amendment. I will add an argument for the minister to consider however, repeating that it is good that he announced that the report periodically on what the ministry is doing will come to the committee in charge. As expensive or cheap as it will be, it will have renewable energy, and for the sustainable development of state and society, from geothermal potential, recycled waste, because only then will it become a renewable source of energy from wind, sun or any other energy source listed in this Article in the 65th law of renewable energy sources. I have to remind you that we look at a little longer than two or five years as much as we talk in Serbia about renewable energy sources and see how the price of what is obtained as an energy product has been expensive since it started. I'm going to put in a procession example, we all had some sort of electronic device, some of the famous digitrons or handheld computers that when they appeared on the market cost an extremely large amount of money. "Texas Instruments" was the first on the market by a thousand and more marks. For cell phones too. That's what we need to talk about here, because if we leave with renewable energy sources including geothermal, only data on how expensive the kilowatt hour is because from a renewable energy source you won't have the development of energy, or electricity from renewable sources. It will always be an obstacle, because it's easy to get support for it – don't do getermal, but do the wind and the rest, hit the thermopower plant and God make you happy, because the kilowatt will be cheaper. That's not the point. Please do not mix the EU and EU energy policy with America. They don't have any similarities. Absolutely. They don't have the same directives, they're not signatories of documents, about China not to talk. Or do you want to open the topic that we're giving up European integration, so let's look for how it solved China and what they're going to do with the air that sees when they breathe or how it solved America with the frustrations and the protests within the United States itself about how they get energy. The geothermal potential of Serbia exists, money is needed, approval is needed, businesses are needed in both the assembly and the ministry to assess exactly what the geothermal potential is. The objective of this amendment, which we support, is to make it more word and finally be supported, however small a share of the total megawatt hours obtained from renewable energy sources in the initial phase.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19284	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 66th amendment. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Master Dejan Capo submitted to the 66th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19285	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, this Article 66 refers to the monitoring of the National Action Plan to be submitted to the Government every two years. The extension is practically a member of 65. We have added in this amendment, or in this article, one amendment in which we return to availability and use of geothermal energy resources for energy purposes. After point 7, which states what report should, i.e. in which energy and activity it is required to report, we ask that after point 7, point 8, which states that it submits a report on the availability and use of geothermal energy resources for energy purposes. The reasoning we have given along with this amendment says that the sustainable use strategy of natural resources, which we have now just recently and polarised, and goods from 2012 requires full valorisation of all natural resources. I'm going to mention again what I've already said. It is known that the AP Vojvodina has great geothermal potential, so if it is not listed, there would be a lack of respect for the adopted strategy, and also a significant reduction in the overall energy and economic potential of Vojvodina and in an explanation for the rejection of this amendment is said – that the amendment is not accepted because the content of the report is set out in Article 66. The draft law in line with Article 22 of the Directive, which we have already mentioned, which does not prescribe that the report must necessarily contain other elements than those mentioned in the draft law. We don't see that it's a distraction that, again, what we've already talked about, that a report on geothermal energy is not found in this member of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19286	Thank you, Mrs. Lazic. The word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19287	Mr. Chairman, I ask you, under Article 101 and Article 286, that, Mr. Chairman, we interrupt the Assembly's meeting to obtain further information, to stabilise the situation that happened today in Mionica. Namely, today in Mionica, here I am now informed, the chairman of our board, Mr Milan Gavrilovic was brutally beaten and wound up in a hospital, his car was demoted... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19288	Mr. Stefanovic, this is the National Assembly, session. You know what's on the agenda. You can't abuse the violation of the Rules of Procedure and it has nothing to do with any session of the National Assembly under this law with events in Mionica. You have a press conference. You solve it that way. (Borislav Stefanovic, immediately: Please, that's why. I ask you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure. (Borislav Stefanovic, now: We cannot work. Well, how can we not work? (Borislav Stefanovic, now: We cannot work while people are beating each other up. ( b) What does this have to do with a session of the National Assembly? They have investigative organs, they have organs that do it. It has nothing to do with a session of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19289	Dear Members of the Parliament, if this is to be said now about what MP Borislav Stefanovic just said, I will have to ask for a stay of transmission, because we cannot talk about... (Janko Veselinović, now: Aborting transmission? Yes, yes, you can look at me as long as you want. Yeah. What do you say? No, it's to keep working on this, because we can't comment as you know on election day. (Janko Veselinović, now: Aborting transmission? Well, you know it very well. Yes, yes, it is because we cannot talk about topics that are not on the agenda, which are forbidden by other laws in today’s day to comment. You know that very well. I don't see anyone here who's a rookie in political... (National MP Dragan Sutanovac throws out of place. Ambassador Sutanovac, you know, I mean, you're at least an experienced politician, which I'm talking about. Who wants to go first, but I'm really gonna take a break and I'm gonna make that happen. This is the full right of Parliament's president because we cannot talk about other events today. I'm not going to say it on purpose. Borislav Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19290	Madam President, Article 103. So it's not about other events. We have a problem that makes it impossible for MPs to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19291	Thank you. Here, take five minutes. I'm going to request a stay of transmission, not conditioned, and we're going to keep working. (Borislav Stefanovic, now: How to interrupt the transmission? What does that look like? You really want to violate the other legal provisions of other laws relating to the political life of this country. (Borislav Stefanovic, now: They are not laws. People were brutally beaten in Mionica. Don't yell at me. I know very well what I'm talking about, and I know what you'd want to happen then if we were to talk about something here that's not a topic. So, just five minutes. Who wants to work in the congregation, which is why the congregation met, of course, to stay. Those who don't want to do it spoil the spirit of this session, they'll leave and do something else. It's perfectly legal for both of us. Just a moment to get information on whether we can count on a delayed transmission and then everything is fine with all the regulations and Rules of Procedure. We'll go on a delayed transmission and then there won't be any problems in abuse. After 20 hours, it will begin when the voting seats of the session are closed, as it has been a billion times so far, and when it was water polo, we have interrupted a thousand times and gone into a delayed transmission. I speak when the other presidents presided earlier, the sport has always had the advantage and now the laws have the advantage of this country. We'll go into a delayed transmission, not a problem. This is three thousand and a first time, and we're not gonna talk about the election. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19293	Your Honored Chairman, I believe that you have injured Article 27, who says that the President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. In the Rules of Procedure, there is nowhere to be seen as a possibility that the President of the Assembly will stop the transfer that goes to the Public Service, which the Assembly is paying out of the budget. Thus, Rule 257 of this Rules of Procedure states: “The representatives of the public information funds have free access to the meetings of the National Assembly and its bodies to inform the public of their work, in accordance with the regulations on the internal order of the National Assembly. ” So you can't determine whether representatives of public information funds will directly or not transfer this Assembly. The closest that can be done in this Rules of Procedure is in article 255, which speaks of the public of work, and says: “The National Assembly and its working bodies are public. A session of the National Assembly may be closed to the public in cases of a certain law if it is proposed by the Government, the Committee or at least 20 Members of Parliament. The proposal may be reasoned. The National Assembly's proposal is decided without a search. So, I ask you, you have no right, according to this Rules of Procedure, to request that the transfer of the National Assembly to the public service channel be interrupted. Was it always a transmission? It was not and it was the decision of the Director of Public Service which, in accordance with its programme, transmits directly or not. It doesn't say that you can do it. If you wish to terminate the transfer, please close this session for the public under Rule 255, as this is the only option that the Rules of Procedure gives you. I've quoted you to a few members and you try to find a member who discreetly gives you that right. We worked here today until the Mionica incident. We didn't hold a press conference in the government yesterday as prime minister and violate the pre-election silence. We worked, we talked about the subject, about the law. At no time have we talked about these choices. When people started getting beat up there, of course the MPs reacted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19294	Thank you. You're talking for two minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19295	I'll talk until you stop me, because I think this is a scandal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19296	He can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19297	This is a scandal that you are now doing, that you interrupt the transmission and don't let the MPs get the information they're looking for in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Disabled Peacephone.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19298	It's an honor to have you talk as much as you want. Thank you very much for understanding and for forcefully wanting several sessions to work here, and I don't know what, but it won't work because there are MPs who really want to work in accordance with the agenda, which is why they came to the meeting today. You're absolutely wrong, but I believe you want to construct something like that and interpret the wrong article 27. It's your right. There is a contract between parliament and Radio Television of Serbia, i.e. the National Service, which states that the Secretary-General is also agreeing on the dynamics of transmission and what it will look like. That's why I broke up, I took a break, if you understand me, and I think it's a rule that the Secretary General... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Did you order the secretary general? Don't yell. I'm not ordering the secretary general to do anything. Everyone has their own ingenuity. (Marco Djurisic, from the post: Who told the secretary general to interrupt the session? All right, don't yell at me. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I ask the question. ( b) Ambassador, you speak of yourself by not letting the chairman even answer you. I'm having a hard time with you guys. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Shame unseen. Let me finish my sentence. It's kind of common in regular communication between adult people. So the secretary general doesn't get any orders. He has his special powers and competencies, especially the president. Everybody understands that. So, in this pause, the Secretary-General has examined whether it is possible that what I have said and what I have suggested to be a delayed transfer, so as not to violate other laws relating to electoral silence, which so far has not been misused by any MP in all these years, not in this council but before and beginning to talk in the middle of a session about any events that are beyond this topic, which relate to the conduct of local elections... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You were not in the village where the electricity was turned off, when you did not let us talk.) What's his name? Ambassador Đurisic, I beg your courtesy, for a good education. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Can I answer? You can't answer me. It doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. What can I tell you, there are some things that in one age of maturation absorb, what can I say to you now, like, for example? the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. So you're wrong and you don't know the authority and jurisdiction of everyone here. Thank you, Director RTS, for realizing that the problem could arise and that we could violate our work in other provisions of the other laws, and it came to our meeting and the delayed transmission will be from 20 hours, as it has been a billion times, but it just didn't bother you, because in this place they were sitting second chair of your former party, so you've never protested on that subject, so I'm going to take this as directed against the party I belong to, or the club I belong to, and myself, but that's not so important. Of course, we'll vote on Article 27's injury. You will allow Gorana Comic to also have the right to breach the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19299	Thank you. Madam President, a member of Article 108(1) who says - the order at the meeting of the National Assembly is taken care of by the President of the National Assembly, and with regard to the application of Article 106, paragraph 1, which says that the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda under which the search is conducted and Article 106(1) is roughly violated, because there is no basis for not establishing order in the sitting so as to determine the measure of interruption of television transmission. Neither is the measure of television transmission guaranteed for any establishment of order, nor is it related to either member concerned with the duties of the president and chair to take care of the order at the National Assembly session. Each participant in the National Assembly session, if he violates the opinion of the president of any of the provisions which obliges him, is subject to and must comply with the penalties, warnings that the chairman gives. No MP is required to comply with the arbitrary interpretation that the interruption of television transmission is the basis for the establishment of order at the assembly session. Please consider your decision. You have the right, as president of the National Assembly, to represent all of us, to make arrangements with the Radio Television of Serbia, with public service, you have the obligation to comply with the obligations of the public service and the session of the National Assembly, but no one has the right to stop the transmission called the measure of establishing order at the Assembly session, no one. Especially not anyone who represents a public service, and none of us who participate in the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19300	Thank you. I'd like this to go as a delayed transmission anyway, and the whole session will be able to escort the viewers from 20.00 hours. Otherwise, reporters continue to follow this session, so it does not appear in that segment that journalists cannot follow the session, and in doing so, I ask you to listen carefully and also review the stenogram. So, there was no amount of pronunciation and you're here in error, both legally and in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. I may have been able to give a measure, it wasn't my intention, and give a warning or punish in some other way the president of the DS parliamentary group who wasn't talking about the agenda point, as you said. That's not what I wanted. I just wanted to work, that since 2:00 p.m., of course, they'll have a wider public insight, it's not the first time, you know, it's a thousand and the first time to go into a delayed transmission. Don't wave your head, because I think you're doing something against your opinion now, knowing you as a good knower of the Rules of Procedure, as well as a good knower of what's been going on for years about some minor things that I would never agree to interrupt and on a delayed transmission, but nobody ever asks us. Is it important to skate or is it an important parliament? But it's already for a broader discussion, not in accordance with Article 27, associated with the other members and attitudes that you have stated. I didn't want to punish any head of Parliament, especially those who today have amendments to the Energy Act and other laws on which we have a united debate. This was neither a measure nor a sentence, but it was a prevention of the abuse of other laws relating to the local elections that took place. To this day, never one MP, we had a fair play, he didn't break it, and he didn't talk about any events on election day, I don't want to get into matter, about it. If so, the problem is that the other presidents agreed to do so, so they waited for someone to challenge, with the help of Parliament's work and direct transfer, any results. I don't want to, and I checked it out, according to the General Secretary and Director of RTS's intelligence, and they agreed to a contract that we have to go into a delayed transfer. I'll remind you, there's gonna be a delayed transmission, and it's gonna be about skating, swimming and other competitions, and then I'm gonna remind you, but not from this pay phone, but I'm gonna use my right to ask what's going on and what right someone's passing something else, and it's gonna push us into a delayed transmission. Now it's something else, a violation of election laws, electoral matter. You know that we are in electoral silence and that the president of your parliamentary group has tried so harshly to break it, and I will not allow it because I do not allow parliament to be used because of subsequent objections that might come. It was stopped in time. No problem. Since 2:00 a.m., everyone will be watching Parliament's work more widely. In what order did you answer? Did you, Marijana Rističević, report for damage to the Rules of Procedure? No, you wait your turn. We still have the Rules of Procedure's injuries. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19301	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like a 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19302	He was a member of the 27th.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19303	But you've done a new injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19304	I can't answer that, it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19305	That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19306	That's right. MP Komic, do you want us to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure to Article 27? I forgot to ask you. (Gordana Comić, from the post: No, there is no need, because I did not advertise Article 27.) Yes, 27, we'll take a stenogram. Do you want us to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you advertised? No, I don't. Please, just call another member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19307	You can, Article 106, although you're misreading it. In Article 103, it does not say that the same member of the Rules of Procedure cannot be advertised, but cannot be pointed to the same violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I am trying to point you to another breach of the Rules of Procedure. You, Madam President, said that during the previous period someone pushed the Assembly into a certain transmission, and now you're saying that it's quite acceptable, legitimate and joyful that this session is going on a delayed transmission, so just tell us if when a transfer is delayed that someone is pushing the Assembly into a delayed transfer or is that quite one measure? You're, I must admit, also wrong when you say things like this weren't there. It was, maybe not in this term. You know what's happened in previous terms and when it comes to chairing other things. Please reconsider your decision. What you've done now, it wasn't, that the president of the National Assembly was intently asking RTS not to transfer the session of the National Assembly, well, that was the first time, and I believe you've hurt Article 106. Rules of Procedure and to tell us whether when a delayed transfer is made, someone is pushing the Assembly into a delayed transmission to hide from the citizens what is spoken of, or is it quite a nice event?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19308	I don't know what happened before. You know, you said you knew. ) In the violations of the Rules of Procedure, there is no broader discussion between me and the MPs, as we feel about the work of the Assembly sometimes and now. So I'm not going to get into that because I have no right to controversy. That's one thing. Second, I need to correct you. I told you exactly – it was, and then it was. We both agreed, you didn't hear that right. I have no other interpretation, I said, and I understand that everyone will report for the same, I have no other answer compared to the answer I gave to MPs Comic and MP Đurisic. Do you want us to vote on the violation of article 106? Yeah. I thank you. The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19309	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, as of today and editor of public service, I am advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure. Namely, he says that everyone is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. You have in the harshest way possible hurt the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19310	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19311	Article 107, I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19312	It's 107 again?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19313	He wasn't. You have injured the dignity of the National Assembly by disfellowshipping the public in the work of the National Assembly and you have done so in an inadequate manner and in a legally impossible way, you well know that you have violated the Rules of Procedure. In fact, the electoral silence existed yesterday. Yesterday was a transfer of the government's session. At the cabinet session, the prime minister spoke of elections in Mionica and Luciani.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19314	Ambassador, please speak of the work of Parliament. The breach of the Rules of Procedure does not apply to the work of other bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19315	You have referred to the fact that it is electoral silence and that we are endangering electoral silence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19316	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19317	And yesterday there was electoral silence, so the prime minister at the government's session was saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19318	Ambassador, please, let's talk about Parliament's work and hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19319	In addition, you have injured this member, or the dignity of the National Assembly, of telling my colleagues that he is not yet in the age of maturity to understand something.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19320	That's not how it's said.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19321	You know that this dictionary does not belong to the Rules of Procedure or to the People's Parliament, and to the least of the presidents of the National Assembly, and that it is offensive, for you very bad. I think that's how you discovered the way you think you're going to work in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19322	Thank you, Ambassador. Your time is up. I thank you and thank you for the assessment you gave me of my personality, which will not help us today in our work. I thank you and you have the right to think of me whatever you want and to say it after the microphone, I will never protest. I don't have any other interpretations other than the extenuated interpretations of the previous three injuries to the Rules of Procedure, so I don't want to say anything else. Would you like to make a statement about the breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19323	Articles 27 and 104 [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: Article 104, replica, was already in place.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19324	Article 104, please. Article 27 has already been used twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19325	All right. Madam President, I appeal to you... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Abuses the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19326	He says I hurt Article 104. Don't tell me, Mr. Djurisic, how I'm going to run a session and what I'm going to answer to Article 104. Here you go, MP. I apologize deeply to you, I find it very difficult to hold a session, because simply MPs want us to talk about something else obviously.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19327	Madam President, I appeal to you and I agree with the will you show to introduce this session into normal civilized and civilized democratic fluids and ways. I think we've all come here today to discuss the amendments to the Energy Law bill, that we care what that law looks like, what norms it's going to make, and not whether anyone's going to look at us. The public presence is extremely important. The Serbian Progressive Party has also advocated the introduction of an e-parliament in the past term. I will remind you that we have also introduced a "live-stream" because we wanted the meetings of the Assembly and the committee to be in front of the public, because I think that the public presence of all events in the National Assembly is extremely important. The fact that this transmission was delayed beyond 20.00 hours, not after one or two at midnight, as it was in previous councils, not after one or two when no one else in Serbia had time to follow the meetings of the Assembly, but in some normal, decent time after 20.00 hours and I respect your desire to respect the laws of this country, the laws that define the electoral process, the electoral silence, and that the highest legislative body should not and should not send such messages as it was tried to exploit and use the National Assembly in the wrong way. I call, and I see Mr. Antic, the minister, the good will of the majority in parliament, to return to the agenda, to return to the amendments, and to begin to do what we are here for in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19328	Thank you. I'll answer. You called Article 104 and said it would be good for me to use it and respond to the insults that were inflicted on me. I abstained precisely because of the role of president and chairman now to answer and to seek word by line, even though I have the right to do so. If you wish, we will vote on Article 104. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I don't want to. I thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19329	Dear President, I believe you have just injured Article 103(1) and Article 8). Paragraph 1) of Article 103 says - the MP has the right to point to a violation of the conduct of the National Assembly president if he considers that he does not comply with these provisions, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly, and it is immediately after the injury done. So, we haven't heard how Article 104 was injured and you were obliged, in accordance with Rule 8, when this Rules of Procedure was misused, to take away the MP's group of MPs who abused the Rules of Procedure for two minutes, because the abuse of Rules of Procedure was misused. You didn't do it, and I believe that you hurt the Rules of Procedure, that you don't run this session the way it's intended for the Rules of Procedure. We worked and talked about the law in this congregation. We did not campaign or abuse this congregation in any way. He reacted only when the news came and he just asked for a break to get some notice, so that he wouldn't be here in the tide talking about the elections in Mionica and that they wouldn't break the law. You interrupted the session and interrupted the transmission without any basis that the Rules of Procedure gives you and denied the public from being familiar with what we are discussing here today. You are constantly violating the Rules of Procedure and I am asking you to stop doing this, to give an answer to a colleague who asked a question in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, and to provide the public with work and return a direct transmission to the public to hear what we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19330	Thank you. Since this keeps going on and on, I'm in line with Article 103 of Section 8, since you're abusing... (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: I abuse? You can take away all the time, it's no problem at all, but this one just wasn't here. This one just wasn't here. ) I am not giving you the measure you are expecting, but in accordance with Article 103 paragraph 8 I am taking away the time that belongs to your parliamentary group in search of the current agenda point, in the time provided for in Article 103 paragraph 8). I hope you get this right. A thousand times you've done the same thing over and over again and you've got the same answer. You can insult me, I accept that you insult, that you throw, which will be heard, of course, in a delayed transmission of 2.00 hours and see how you treat the president. I can even think that you're harassing me at work just because I'm a woman. Otherwise, you don't treat a man like the president or the president like that and you wouldn't act like one, I'm convinced of that. The word of the People's Messenger, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19331	I called right after the injury, and I want to point out something that happened while Mr. Babic was talking. I am reporting under Article 103 of Section 4 which clearly states what the MP who wants to point to an injury in the actions of the President of the National Assembly, what this MP is obliged to do. In fact, the MP is obliged to state which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the National Assembly president and to explain what the injury is, by being able to speak for up to two minutes. Mr Babic has advertised Article 104, which says – if the MP in his presentation is insultingly expressed, he has the right to reply, the right is decided by the President, etc. In no word did he speak of the replica, Madam President, nor did he explain why he felt that you had violated this Rules of Procedure in his conduct. You tried to put some words in his mouth and suggest what he really wanted to say, what he agreed to. However, I ask you to make sure that we sitting here still listen to what is said. Citizens, thanks to your decision, do not hear what is said, but even when they listen, they will hear that Mr. Babic has clearly misused his right to point out to you some mistake in his conduct. And that's not happening right now. You have now taken up Mr. Djurisic's time for some godless violation of the Rules of Procedure he has done, and for Mr. Babic, who apparently abuses his right because he didn't speak at all about a member who volunteered to advertise, you didn't do that to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19332	Thank you. You weren't talking about the member that you are now...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19333	I picked up by article 103, and I was talking about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19334	And he answered by article 104, and I would ask you not to analyze me and the way I responded.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19335	Your conduct is our job to analyze.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19336	MPs, we have a delayed transmission, everyone will be able to see and see who's what and when he's talking, but I have no intention of justifying myself. So, the chairman gave the answer, the MP was pleased, although he implied that I should still respond to the insults I receive very often from certain MPs, and today at this session I do not want to do so, and he agreed absolutely with it. If you feel that you are right, we will take you to the vote and the MPs will declare themselves by voting and only that is appropriate, whether the MPs will give the assessment that the Rules of Procedure has been injured or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19337	That's what you heard Mr. Babic say. I want the Assembly to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19338	I can't hear a throw, maybe because of the years he's got, but I really can't hear someone throwing something past my microphone and the words he gets. The word is from Ambassador Babic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19339	Article 156(2), Madam President, has been injured. I really like it when an esteemed colleague, even in an untrue context, mentions my name, in two minutes 10-11 times, believe that it suits me and that I'm ready for something like that. On the other hand, what happened in the past tens of minutes in the same Mionica is due to this irresponsible behavior...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19340	Ambassador, please, just about hurting the Rules of Procedure, please. Don't tell me that even though there's no transmission now, it'll be seen at 2:00 a.m. what we've been saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19341	Of course, in one sentence I'll... Based on insinuations and no investigational organs. The insinuations sent from this room were attacked by SNS activists...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19342	Okay. I thank you, MP. That's exactly why...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19343	... And that's really bad. So please, point 156 of point 2 of the amendment, let's get back to the agenda, let's talk about the Energy Act, don't support it. We're safe and safe here, so we're sending messages that some people in Mionica or anywhere are fighting some wars or I don't know what.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19344	Article 156 is clear, so I'm trying to focus my discussion on amendments. There's a group of MPs who don't want to. I'll use the Rules of Procedure, so we have a provision in which the chairman can, if he can't do otherwise and in a different way, establish order and direct the debate in the right direction, take a two-minute break, which would make the order and convince the MPs to keep working on the subject. After that break, there is no abuse of the Rules of Procedure, but we are working on a topic that would even cause a situation to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Now you bid something that does not exist in the Rules of Procedure, which is that it is directly done. There's no directness after 45 minutes. It's a very short break and we're back to work. The word is given by the amendment Marijan Risticevic. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. According to the amendment, Risticevic reported, although there are measures under the Rules of Procedure to be said, because now, after the break, everyone has to stick to it. Stay in the O.R., keep going. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We're continuing our work. [[after breaks]] I'm asking the Minister if he can join us. Minister Antic, we're going to continue our work. On Article 66, MP Risticevic, here I am reading this article. Members of the 66th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branko Karavidic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Alksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? First promoter Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19345	Thank you, Mr. President. Just to show you that the 3.18 seconds you used from my time in the previous debate have not been deleted from the system. Please, that time as the President of the Powered Club returns to me. And now let me say something about the amendment to Article 66, and it says that in a report drawn up by the ministry that monitors the implementation of the national action plan every two years, Article 9, amongst other things, it says that the share of biofuels produced from waste, residues, not food cellulose, adds part of the algae. Why did we put the algae on? We put algae in because today, besides these other things that are listed in this article, the known and technology of the production of biofuels from algae, is as bioenergy resources, and we think that it should also be found in this law. The explanation of the ministry for why this amendment is rejected is that this member is in line with Article 22 of Directive 2009 - 28 E3, of the European Community, I apologize, which does not prescribe that the report must necessarily contain other elements than those mentioned in the draft law. The 2009 directive itself, and as one of the colleagues here said, is likely to change. It's likely to change in that direction that algae are listed as a source of biofuels, bioenergy resources, I apologize. So we don't see any reason why we shouldn't go one step ahead and put in the algae as one obligation to meet. They cannot, in no way reduce the value of this report, on the contrary, only improve it, because the report will be more quality and more comprehensive if this obligation is introduced. I think we're going to do this one step, because I believe that by changing this directive that I'm saying, it's going to be brought more than five years ago, that there's going to be algae, and probably some other things listed as bioenergy resources. We see no reason to find this solution in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19346	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19347	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear ministers, dear guests, at one point I thought I would support this amendment, given that it is in some way a kind of plant, that's where the algae are mentioned. But since the promoter did not separate whether he was thinking of seaweed or those found, let's say, in Lake Užička, now I don't know whether this party was going to go out to sea, change the programme, and make these algae a renewable energy or think of river ones that are toxic. So these are the cyanopaths I understand, and I've been trying to get word to you. They're extremely toxic, affecting the liver and so on. It is known that they are now found in Lake Uzziah. You know, if they meant that kind of algae, I can't support it, but if they were thinking about that sea part, if they thought we'd go out on the warm seas, maybe a little further, I'd think about whether or not to back it up, but whether or not we're against the neighbors. I'm afraid our neighbours will resent us, especially, I think Montenegro would be sensitive. In the matter of plants, I'm more of a green mass, for biomass. So that's what I've already talked about, but since the amendment to Article 66 is about reports and the share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption. So we have to produce a certain percentage of electricity. Now again, I ask the Minister and the people of the Ministry whether the electricity that can be obtained from the processing of municipal waste counts? Does it count as a percentage of renewable energy, since we're going to have to have a certain percentage, and we didn't get close to it. In this regard, I am asking specifically about Kolubara and how if the 2012 project is to be implemented, and it relies on the processing of 180 thousand tonnes of low-calorie coal and coal dust that exists there. In addition to that, at the rebuilding of Colubara A where municipal waste would be used in a fluid boiler that has never been processed in any plant before, as well as that low-calorie coal. If processed both, how to divide what energy is from renewable sources, and what is not, since this fluid boiler would also make electricity and heat from coals that do not now use electricity, they do not make electricity, and in the future, especially related to Chinese people who came interested in the Kolubara A project. There is a great possibility of producing 300 megawatts of electricity at the site, which is from low-calorie coal, which is not used by any power plant, which is from municipal waste. With that in mind, I'd like the minister to explain how he would count on a stake from such a power plant that is somehow combined, and what is a renewable energy source and what is not. Finally, what I was saying about farms, for which the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Construction and the Ministry of Agriculture, should be agreed to create a typical project of a farm based on which to produce electricity, from green mass, from the energy of the sun and perhaps from the wind, that such a combined power plant has its own investors. With that in mind, I have to say that there are investors who, if they don't ask for a privileged price, a privileged price of electricity, they simply want to invest in that kind of farm and to make energy at a simple, rather than privileged price. With that in mind, I'd like the minister, or one of those present to explain to me about the Kolubara A project, and one last thing in the end, to say that I welcome the Ministry's intention to build new energy capacities. I would especially like it to be done in agriculture, because they are abandoned countries, which have 400,000 hectares and with the resuscitation of livestock, we can make about 1,000 power plants that would produce one megawatt of electricity, and with that, we would, for example, manage to make electricity as many as three "Kostolac" power plants that are now planned. For a long time in this Serbia, no one has done anything, and if anyone wants to eat delicious bread, they must sow wheat. If anyone wants to try a sweet fruit, they have to plant a tree. In the past, no one has planted anything, no one has sown anything. Everyone's been picking and harvesting and tearing, which is why we're where we are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19348	Thank you. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakić, Ivan Ivanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Vojislav Vujic, Zoltan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, together submitted the amendment. Aleksandar Senic, Miroslav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19349	Dear Presidents, respected ministers with a team, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we as MPs of opposition and positional parties have proposed this amendment that certainly for the main objective was to improve the investment environment in our country's energy and facilitate investment opportunities for investors, which is also the main intensification of both the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and other state institutions. I will repeat once again what is the main aspect of this amendment, what we wanted to achieve. This is the erasure of item 1 of point 5 which aims at not requiring energy operators to apply the licence to the requirement to obtain the status of the privileged electricity producer, since this requires unnecessary extension of the procedure, i.e. from the status of the temporary privileged producer to the status of the privileged producer. Instead of the fact that, according to the current formulation, point 5 of the Energy Subject would first have to obtain a licence, and only then to apply for status, the proposed amendment allows the simultaneous submission of requirements for obtaining a licence and for obtaining that status, which reduces time, reducing procedures and opportunities for investors to invest in a better and more relaxed manner and to make their investment. This part, as regards evidence, shall, by supplementing Article 1(6) of the amendment, specify the right of an energy entity that has acquired the status of a temporary authorised producer and thus reserved a share in the free capacity to move to the status of the authorised producer without having to prove or assess whether the required share in the maximum capacity is available. Our basic intensity was to reduce the procedure, to relax the possibility of investment, and we are convinced that this amendment could and could be contributed to the final legal solution that we will be voting here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am using, of course, the opportunity to thank the Minister and his team for respecting one large part, two amendments concerning the harmonisation of the Energy Act with the Law on Planning and Construction, which is a group of MPs of positional and opposition parties as an "economic cocussus" and thus we avoided the possibility of imbalance between these two laws and the possibility that these laws could not be applied. Of course, primarily to my colleagues from the opposition Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandar Senić, as well as colleagues from the positioning parties who are together, having in the interest, as the main goal of the country's parliament's interest and better and better quality legal solutions, wrote together these amendments together and we insist that we improve the business environment, which is the goal of all of us in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19350	The word has a minister in the government, Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19351	First of all, I would also like to thank the people of USAID and NAED and a group of MPs who, above all, are focusing on speeding up the procedure and one relaxed attitude of state authorities towards investors. Of course, it is part of the government policy of the Republic of Serbia and all these activities are always to be welcomed. During the whole debate on the Energy Law proposal, we had a really large number of proposals and suggestions, primarily from those institutions that put investors first. I was also in part of the debate, when we discussed the law in general, saying that this law achieves these objectives and that it is investment-enhancing and that it opens up the possibility for investors to have one better climate compared to everything that has been so far. But it's all going to the Ministry until the moment we enter a segment called the technical protection of the system. The license is part of the system's protection and proof of compliance with the conditions that someone produces electricity in a quality, legal, safe and secure way, we can't give up the license. A license is a prerequisite for someone to get the status of a privileged producer. I'm asking you to understand that, first of all, it's for the seriousness of a system that's highly sophisticated and that doesn't allow us to play with it in any way. This second part where you talk about capacities, we stand at the view that the part is too high, because by obtaining the temporary status of the privileged producer, the reservation is automatically made, so that on all these balances and quotas where we lead for different categories, renewable sources, registers, free capacities, that register looks like this – one column is temporary, the next column is privileged and it cannot be larger than what is maximum. Someone who has obtained the status of a temporary privileged producer, if he meets all the conditions he needs, cannot lose his normal path to the status of a privileged producer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19352	I thank Minister Antic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, after the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19353	Just to thank the Minister for his commitment and for such a quality explanation and to express my satisfaction and one understanding and desire that he, as a minister alone, had the best intention of improving the business environment and ambience for investors, but of course also to understand a group of MPs, to improve legislative solutions with their suggestions and suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19354	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19355	Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if you've been notified, your chairman, your predecessor excluded the public from this session. You dared to let RTS turn on their cameras. That's what you've apparently violated her order, the RTS director, to keep this session a secret. I ask you, chair, to consult with the president, to see if this session is public, or if it's a secret and if you can hear what we want to say about the Energy Act, and that's all we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19356	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, you're very funny, you know very well that the transfer is delayed, that it will be after 20.00 hours and the report on the course of the session, so there's nothing forbidden for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to know that we're in session right now, but words that can break some laws can't leave this room before 20.00 hours. I thank Mr. Veselinovic. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Vojislav Vujić, Zoltan Pekić, Veroljub Arsic, Aleksandar Senić, Milosav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic submitted the amendment together. Does he want a word, according to this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Gordan Bogdanović, Slobodan Home and Ivan Karic submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Doctor Blagoje Bradic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19357	I thank Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of my fellow Members, article 73 speaks of the status of the privileged producer and when it is taken away. In part two that speaks of the status of a temporary privileged producer, at point 2, you say that the permit, i.e. the status of the temporary authorised producer is withdrawn unless it fulfils the obligations laid down by law and by the act referred to in Article 74 of this Act. We asked to be added – and to make the facility according to the prescribed deadlines and enable the quota in solar and wind parks to be filled by other legal persons. I mean here on wind parks. We have explained that the proposed amendment prevents the situation and that those who acquire the status of the privileged producer do not build the plant, or power plants take the quota to other investors, which would more effectively build the facility and help the Republic of Serbia meet the quota under renewable energy sources by 2020. You replied that after the status of a temporary authorised producer has been highlighted automatically and there is no need to respect a member, but other than a solar power plant, where the status lasts for a year, it lasts for the rest of the three years. Our idea was that if someone had that status, and they wanted some other kind of power plant, the power plant, to make it, to take it away if it didn't meet that condition, so they wouldn't wait three years to run out of status. That was it. I know you've been thinking about this part where it's only one year, but that's what you did in Article 71(2). I think we should accept this, because that's why we're preventing the possibility of wasting time, because we have a short deadline by 2020, and for that reason we've suggested that there's a possibility of taking it away, if someone obviously doesn't want to meet what was given him as a possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19358	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. Members of the 85th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malovic and Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP, Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go, Professor Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19359	Thank you, Chairman. First, to thank you for your compliment, and now I'm speaking, you've given me a compliment in some previous discussion, so I haven't had the opportunity to thank you, if you don't remember. Dear Minister Antić, we have submitted the amendment to Article 85(2) and we have tried to define in a more precise way the production of electricity from cogeneration, i.e. from the joint production of electricity and heat. I think you may be right and that we didn't do it very nicely, or that your argument is that you don't accept the amendment as right. We can accept that, and we have no problem. We're here today to confront attitudes and admit that perhaps your solution is better. At the same time, given your willingness to cooperate and not to look at your opponent in opposition, but someone who wants this law to look as good as possible, of course the opposition would want the laws to apply, as they do not apply now, you know that well. I'm saying, given that your proclivity, first of all from the fact that you've worked with people from democratic options for many years and that it's left a deep trail on you, I find it indelible for me to accept some of the other amendments that we've already talked about, and it concerns jurisdiction when it comes to opening, or licenses to open oil pumps within circles, factories, production halls, etc. and the possibility to issue a licence under the control of the inspectors, which is why they have the authority already under other laws, which concerns these matters. I think that in some way we've gone over it, without your argument being valid, you've been consulting with your colleagues, but I'm saying, we moved away after that and we didn't get a valid answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19360	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. Dr. Ninoslav Giric answered the words. Here you go, Mr. Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19361	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, means that the proposer of this amendment or the promoters of this amendment has made it clear that this Article 85 position 2, is very explicit, as regards the guarantee of the origin of electricity and himself lists electricity as a guarantee of origin, which makes it clear that it is not about guarantees of origin for the production of heat, but electricity, so there can be no confusion about the interpretation of this provision. So I suggest that this amendment be rejected for these reasons that I have stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19362	Thank you. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 88th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19363	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, honourable fellow Members, respected citizens, Article 88 refers to energy and energy prices and services and says that energy, energy and service prices provided by energy operators are free unless otherwise regulated by this law. The regulated prices are, therefore, listed – the prices of access to the system, the prices of access to the distribution system, the prices of access to the transport system, the prices for oil and oil pipelines, etc., the prices of auxiliary services are regulated, and in addition to the prices set out in item 2, these can be regulated, under one, electricity prices with guaranteed supply and below two, the prices of the purchase of the power reserve for system services, secondary and territorial regulation. We have suggested that instead of this "can" stand "must be regulated", you replied in the amendment to be rejected for the reason that Article 89 regulated the control of these prices that can be regulated, but I remind you that in Article 89, you said that once a year the agency analysed the need to regulate the prices of Article 88(3) of this law, based on the level of competitiveness achieved on the domestic electricity market etc. Since it's big money that goes through our systems, I think something like that has to be regulated, and not that it can, because it can mean that it doesn't have to at the moment to control the agency or any other factor, and I suggest you accept this amendment. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19364	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19365	A colleague of Veselinović, who had made such a nice joke with me earlier, asked a question we had already been through and I agree that I was not explicit enough about amendments to articles 28 and 29, related to the storage of derivatives, control, granting consent. I must say, it's a very well-organized system and that no one in the province takes away any authority. The ministry only gives consent based on a report from the circuit inspectors. We're here now trying to run an analysis and see if there's any mistake on our side and options to make it better. The people I trust boundlessly claim to me that this solution is only possible and I ask you to trust us, because we have indeed tried to analyze everything that all parliamentary groups have proposed, and I repeat, there are amendments proposed by a group of MPs from all MPs, we have indeed tried to accept each amendment. So that was our idea. We set out to accept him and those whom we did not accept, for we could not, because we found no basis. When it comes to prices and words can or must, our view is that the formulation "can" is only possible because it is a gradual opening of the market and this liberalisation requires us to exit the must system as a regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19366	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19367	Minister, I was dead serious when I told you what to do about your position, but when it comes to this amendment, we have now come to the conclusion of the claim that you have, or the attitude that you have, where you said that the circuit inspectors will be involved in determining the conditions, setting the conditions for obtaining permission. Where does that say?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19368	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19369	There's a couple of old ones in there. One thing is to define it by means of a sublegal act. So, the ministry is closer to prescribing the conditions for issuing, modifying and withdrawing consent for the storage and supply of its own needs, the content of the requirements and the documentation it applies with the request for issue, and see Section 2, all evidence is given what is necessary to meet, and supervision of all these is carried out by the circuit inspectors. So you have a position in Article 28, the last point of view says it's being solved by a sublegal act. Article 2 sets out all the technical elements of the performance, and the control of all this is carried out by the circuit inspectors in accordance with their competences and evidence of compliance with these conditions is a report by the circuit inspectors.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19370	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Members of the 89th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk envoy, Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19371	Thank you. Minister, you'll allow me later when there's a break to try and clear this up, because I didn't realize in what act you were reading now, the last attitude, it says. Furthermore, when it comes to Article 89 and our amendment, well, now this is the thing that we think we're right about, and that's why we're asking you to accept our amendment. In fact, you said in article 88 what regulated prices are and what prices can be regulated. However, when you say in Article 89, the regulated prices referred to in Article 88(1) to (9) of this law are published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and the other regulated prices are published on the Agency's energy entities website. What don't we understand here? You listed in article 88 which regulated prices and gave the possibility that some other prices could be regulated and you explicitly stated that, and then in article 89, you are talking about some other regulated prices. So, what's our problem? We don't know what other regulated prices are, because there's no member of this law that states that. In that sense, a member of this law remains unsettled, i.e. opening up the possibility that some other prices should be regulated, and we do not know what these prices are. This is why we asked to add – and other prices, without it "regulatory", because you have already set in article 88 which are regulated prices. I don't know why you need the word "regulatory" in article 89.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19372	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19373	Article 102 states that the Agency is obliged to make a decision on the certification of the transmission system operator within four months of the date of submission of the application referred to in Article 100(3) of this Act, in the event that the Agency does not make a decision under Article 1 of this Article, the certification decision is deemed to have been made, etc., to the position we wanted to amend, which states that the Agency's decision and the opinion of the competent authority, in accordance with the obligations arising from the approved international agreements, will be published together in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and on the website of the transmission system operator and the Agency. In the event that the final decision of the Agency departs from the opinion of the competent authority, in accordance with the obligations arising from the approved international contracts, the Agency will, together with the decision and opinion set out in Article 6(6), publish a justification for such a decision. There's no telling what's going to be crucial here and definitely what's going to be done. We suggest that this be deleted in accordance with Article 2 of point 42 that we discussed at the beginning of this discussion, because we believe it is still too early for the Republic of Serbia to lose sovereignty in this area, i.e. That he can't decide on these important issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19374	Thank you. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19375	In Article 109(1) point 37, otherwise, the member says that the transmission system operator is obliged, so whatever it does, I don't have that much time to read it all, in point 37, says – for the purpose of providing security supplies, it is a priority for the manufacturer who uses domestic electricity-generating energies in an amount not exceeding 15% of the total energy-generating energy-generating power plants used in the calendar year according to the Republic of Serbia's energy balance. First, why just 15%? We have suggested 30%, given what can happen in our energy system and that if there is a possibility that we can use our capacities, we use it at a higher percentage. I hope the ministry should accept this, too, because I don't understand what it is that limits our capacity to only 15%. What's that about?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19376	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19377	To both of these previous amendments, which Mr Bradic spoke simply the only answer is that exactly one of the objectives of this law is to transpose the energy directive from the third package and that this is part of those obligations that are the way they are. In objective terms, we must introduce these directives in the way they are intended and that is the obligation of our country. From our answer you can see clearly. So, literally, directives. For each of these amendments, we have given you the directive, which number, which member, which position. So we've made every single one of these amendments completely transparent.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19378	Thank you. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19379	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, let's just remind ourselves of what these directives are. So, the directives to be implemented in this law under the third package: it is the first since 13 July 2009 European Community on the rights to the internal market for electricity on the placing out of force of earlier directives that existed; then, the European Parliament's Council Directive of 18 January 2006 on measures to ensure the security of electricity supply and investment in infrastructure; then, the European Community and the European Parliament Regulation of the Council of 13 July 2009 on conditions for access to the network for cross-border exchange of electricity and repealing the Regulation applicable in 2003. So it's for electricity. For gas, the Directive relating to common rights for the internal market in natural gas, then the Directive on gas security measures, conditions for access to natural gas networks and ultimately the Directive on the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19380	Thank you. The word is made by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19381	I don't know what to attribute this to, but I can't even attribute this to Santa's arrival when SNS MPs read us EU directives. Namely...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19382	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, let's get this debate serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19383	I'm absolutely serious. I want to tell you next, and it also refers to the minister's position, who, in some ways, gave the creamworth fellow to say so. You gave the answer, you gave the same thing in written form – European directives are such and such, point. Mr Antiću, one of the European directives should certainly be respected at the moment when they are necessary for Serbia's entry into the EU. But there is something that is of interest to the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in the process, to call it, transitions to the EU. And every time we make laws, we have to stand up and look at the two sides – what is necessary is to implement from European legislation and what will hold us back to European integration, and we have not yet opened any chapters, primarily thanks to the inability of this government, and the other is – what is the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia? Mr. Antiću, I cannot dispute the fact that you believe that at this time and the interest of Serbian citizens and in the interest of the Serbian state. Is it also in the interests of Serbian and Serbian citizens because it is merely a mere fulfillment of a directive that we may not be in need of right now, because we may be able to meet those directives for the next five years, when they said there was no speech until then on joining the EU?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19384	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19385	There's a saying in my neighborhood - Lupi and he's alive. Excuse me, but with the ability of the government and what people did we get to start negotiations? And I will not say that – get, but deserve, reform measures, bold political moves, by concluding the Brussels Agreement. What government is that? Is it possible that the government, the speaker who knocked and stayed alive, simply politically, would say something, would stick to the government's label, despite the fact that it has no basis in reality or in the truth? On what basis did we get that date? On what basis will chapters be opened? On what basis has screening been done, months ago? On what basis have support and commendation been received from Brussels on Serbia's progress on the road, on Serbia's accelerated progress on the road? On the other hand, with comments like this, I can only estimate that the political party is the man who knocked and stayed alive just before they gave up the European path. I see, one party says -- Serbia's Serbia, the other, to give up the European path, say openly that you do not want a European perspective and a European path to Serbia. But in this way to give labels for what the whole world sees, for what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see, I think it is irresponsible. On the other hand, I am aware that a long process awaits us, a painful process of negotiation, opening chapters, alignment, implementation, etc. But the most important job that awaits us is to convince people in Serbia that we are not doing it because anyone has forced us to do it, but to do it for us, to accept new values, not because someone has sufflified us to accept it, but because it is for Serbia's sake. Such statements, things like this, make this process difficult and only people in Serbia are further confused.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19386	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19387	Thank you. You've injured Article 104. - by applying Article 104 to the exercise of the rights laid down in Article 1 and 2 of this article, the President of the National Assembly shall decide. It's a straight line, and you took advantage of it. So there's no harm in what you've done. But the injury consists of how you did it. Because either the president of the parliamentary group in the Assembly or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group or the deputy president of the parliamentary group has the right to replication. So it is not at all disputed that your right to, having a session and taking care of order in the sitting, you consider that anyone, from any parliamentary group, and based on the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, has the right to replication. But it remains unclear why you have made the decision to use the replica by the president of the parliamentary group in a situation where we are informed that there is an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group? Therefore, it is not in vain to inform the President of the National Assembly of who is a parliamentary group and the right of a parliamentary group to determine which of the MPs will do so, but it is also your right to be converted, from Article 104, to give a replica, at the same time, to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You have the right not to give the replica, so you don't have to explain it. You have the right to give the replica and also not to explain it. You do not have the right to give the replica to one of the MPs who, at the moment of giving the replica, is not intended to receive the replica, if an authorised representative is present in the hall, or to inform us that the authorised representative is no longer and that, in the course of the SNS parliamentary group, he will represent and receive a word from the president of the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19388	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Just a patch on my mouth to put it on me.) Let me explain, Mr. Granny. Don't throw it away. Mrs. Komic, an apology to the MPs, from a member of the government, I did not see Mrs. Tomic present. If I'd seen it, Mr. Babic couldn't have gotten the right to a replica. In that part, you're right, one more apology, because I didn't, I say, see from a member of the government sitting in the bench Mrs. Tomic. Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19389	Mr. Veselinović, three things. First of all, I don't think anyone can argue that this very government has contributed to all of these events that are part of our European path, first of all, to the realization of the Brussels Agreement, and now we are in a very active situation, and this is going in a very good direction. Secondly, the issue of transposing energy directives in our legislation is not part of our negotiating process with the EU. Serbia has moved on in that segment. We have a contract on the energy community of Southeast Europe signed with the EU. It is our contractual obligation and as such there are several elements that represent this segment of obligation to implement these elements, including criminal measures. Penalties sometimes can be very painful. We now had a situation that at the Ministerial Council of the Energy Community in Kiev, several months ago, the introduction of sanctions on BiH was on the agenda. Part of these sanctions was the suspension and use of funds from all access funds, i.e. the freezing of IPA projects. That was some 18 projects in BiH. I must tell you that this decision has not been made solely because of the firm stance of the Serbian government not to allow BiH, which was hit severely in the spring floods, to be further punished, as it is necessary to vote by consensus on the state at the level of the energy community. Since we didn't want to vote, BiH was not punished. It's one of our serious contractual obligations, and we have to fulfill our obligation. The third thing, your question, we think it's a good, wider picture, yes, extremely important and extremely good for our country. Each individual directive can be assessed with a plus or a minus, but when we sum it up, it's extremely good and important for our country. That's why we're working on this and we insist.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19390	The word after the amendment has Dr. Janko Veselinović You have no right to a replica. [[Janko Veselinović, from the post: I applied for the replica.]] Mr. Secretary didn't in any way make the replica possible. (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: The president of the SNS parliamentary group has been enabled. You can't go back to that debate. I won't allow it. (Vučeta Toskovic, from the place: Do not abuse the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19391	Your colleague, Vuceta Toskovic, warns you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19392	Mr. Toskovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19393	Thank you, Mr. Toskovic. Dear Minister, maybe that's the case, maybe this is really our contractual obligation, but you didn't say it like that. You have been referring to the directives, as Miss Tomic has been referring to the directives. I asked you, given that you talked about directives, is that in line with the directives and is that still good for the citizens of Serbia? In this final part of the answer, you explained this, in your opinion, it is widely seen as good for the citizens of Serbia. We can discuss this, but in this part, we, past these sources of rights that you have spoken about, which are directives, we also have contractual obligations regarding Southeast Europe, where we have taken over a plan that has nothing to do with joining the EU. In that first part, I think you don't believe what you said, either, that this government has done something important towards joining the EU. In three years, nothing but getting a date, but the talks didn't start. It is not known when it will start, so this energy sector is also very controversial and our approach to EU standards. You know how members of the law are implemented in terms of the collection of electricity, heat and other types of energy per consumption, and not on a square meter basis, etc. Energy efficiency directives are also very problematic, as is said, etc. Regarding our mutual communication that was here today, we really want to talk about the amendments from our Parliament club. We do not want to use any local expressions, localisms, even those used in neighbouring relations, as some SNS MPs, type – scales, etc., we are interested in the Law... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19394	Proceed according to the Energy Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19395	Why didn't the Honorable Chairman tell a member of your parliamentary group when he was speaking under the Energy Act? Why didn't you tell him that? You haven't even given me a replica, and you're not letting me look back on that in the course of my time as a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19396	I'll allow it, but you don't use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19397	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19398	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19399	There are a lot of things we can do, about a lot of things to agree on, about some of us not to agree on, but one thing that has no controversy is that the government of the Republic of Serbia, this government and I say the previous government took these key steps. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: What happened afterwards? ) I repeat, the Brussels Agreement was a turning point, of course, along with that segment of the fight against corruption and the creation of a general climate in society, were a key segment for the start of negotiations. So there's no dilemma about it. What I wanted to say and what I needed, because I came here to talk about the Energy Act. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: Is this the replica, the amendment?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19400	Mr. Marko Djurisic, allow the minister to finish. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: On what basis was he talking about the amendment? ) The minister asked if he could get a replica and got a replica. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: The minister can always, and the colleague can't. ) Mr. Veselinović also received a replica. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: I never got. ) He didn't get it at this point, but he got it a few times before that. You say you're not, I say you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19401	I'm really like a guest minister in this high house, and I'm gonna use those opportunities that I'm entitled to. If I have the right, I will respond to my colleague, Veselinovic, and if not, of course not. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Keep going, it's not up to you. You're right and we don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19402	Mr. Djurishic, please allow the minister to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19403	I do my utmost to avoid any political debates or controversy with MPs and to speak exclusively of this law. What I'm saying at the very end is that part of heat is not a directive and that as such it can't be found in this law and that we don't apply it. When paying energy at cost, it's something we're working very seriously on and a serious process that's part of the regulation of the local self-government market. We're trying to get additional order into that whole matter. I believe we'll succeed in general in the next period. This year we haven't been able to get into a significant number of heat with that model. I believe that next heating season will be significantly increased, and telling you right now doesn't mean that it's the best mechanism for citizens until we have that option that everyone in their apartment can regulate whether they want warmer or colder. That's all the half-quases of solutions, so we'll work on that general quality of the solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19404	The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19405	Article 106, Mr. Chairman, I know that Mr. Djurisic is trying to impose himself here in a fierce and difficult competition between Mr. Zivkovic, Mr. Sutanovac, who used to worship us in previous days with the expressions – cattle, garbage, scum, etc. that he's trying in such a competition to impose himself, but throwing himself out of a place that isn't just now. One verbal communication that is the lowest possible on one level and that does not deserve a single public place in Serbia, especially not the NS RS, and that is the manner I suppose when our parliamentary group sent us to the forest a few days ago, and I believe the other parliamentary groups from most of us sent us to the forest. He should not have said – go to the forest, but – come to the forest, because such a way where ministers are first called, where it is said – why does the Government not come to the National Assembly when MPs make proposals for the law, and when ministers come to the National Assembly, as it does several days ago and today, Mr Antic. Then they're not allowed to talk with a constant throw. I ask you to transfer this competitiveness between Mr. Zivkovic, Sutanovac and Mr. Djurisic to another place, perhaps in a park outside the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19406	Thank you. Mr. Babic, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. I would ask the MPs not to. I understand when in the heat of discussion someone throws away at some point and that's not the problem. I mean, it is according to the Rules of Procedure, but we don't consider it a big problem, but when someone does it all the time, they do it every day, every day at every session, at every moment, it's a little bigger problem. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. Dr Aleksandra Tomic, an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19407	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, let us first resolve a dilemma. I haven't been a lady but a lady in 18 years, and I'm not even sure there's any more gender equality than there is, is there, missy's comment, and this guy's title. I reported on the amendment because I realized that simply what we are saying as MPs when we represent Serbia, it is that Serbia's parliament has all the political parties that advocate the European path. I now see that there is simply a change in the views and policies of individual parties or a lack of understanding of what the strategic path to the EU is, what European integration is and what it means to apply certain packages to contracts with the energy community. If we're talking about this third package at all and the directives that we're applying, if we don't apply them, so, by contract with the energy community, it's right in that contract if you don't apply that contract. So the right of the energy community is to appeal to the European Commission. The European Commission's law in negotiations with the EU and Serbia is to impose certain measures and even to stop negotiations. So if a party stands for such a thing, then let it say because it has a legitimate right to change its party's policy. She may have realized that this European road, this New Democratic Party or whatever party in parliament she wants, can say that she simply does not confuse her voters with that policy. As for the third package of the directive, and in general this law, which came as a result of the negotiations with the Energy Community, so here is the protection of all legal solutions, especially guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and perhaps in many members we have overprotected the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and we have negotiated somewhere as a state with the energy community and found those practical solutions with which we wanted to show that the European path is in no way compromised. The second thing, when we talk about chapters, Chapters 15 and 21 refers to energy and at all to all kinds of networks, and it includes energy networks, even trans-European networks when we talk in the field of energy. In general, the section in the screenings is very well assessed and highly evaluated by the Republic of Serbia. What was done in this area from 2012 to 2014 is far more than it was done in total from 2000 to 2012. You have that in all the documents, and the European Commission, and the energy communities and all the simply negotiating chapters. With that, in general, I have a feeling that they had no idea at all how much the state of Serbia had done in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19408	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Mr. Djurishic, you after the amendment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19409	Thank you. Dear Chairman, as president of the parliamentary group, I would like to respond to a few of the things that have been mentioned in this debate - who is when and how much for Serbia's EU accession. We can start by looking where someone was in '90, 1991, 1992...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19410	Please, Mr. Djurishich...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19411	Don't take away my word. Don't bother me. You haven't done that in the previous speakers,
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19412	You said yourself you wanted to speak according to the amendment and I beg you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19413	Let me finish my discussion as I intend. I told you here today that we're not students here to have someone lecture us and you can work as hard as you want to treat us that way. You can send me where you sent me the other day, and those aren't words that fit this House when I was saying where some of you might have gone... (Zoran Babic, from the place: Who? You know, Mr. Babic, what my words of hate are, an insult sent to this House. Since you're talking about the part of the session that citizens couldn't hear and represent themselves as some kind of victim. You 150 were yelling at me here and sending me to various places that I'm not going to repeat here because it's not polite, and you can tell the citizens what my answer was, because I hate you and anyone else I don't have. All I have is a desire to live in this country better. I had that wish in 2007 when the SAA was signed, when you were in a party that wanted to arrest those who returned from Brussels with a signed EU accession agreement. So much for your consistent...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19414	Mr. Djurishic, get back to the amendment. You said you wanted to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19415	... Europe. So much for your consistent Europeanism and who is it when he changed his political attitudes and opinions. I haven't done it in 25 years, and you've done it every few years. Of course I have the right to question this Europeanism today that comes out of your mouth every day, and here, it's been a whole year, not one chapter of the negotiations is open. Not one. You don't know when. I wish we'd heard the first chapter open, not the next chapter, but the first chapter. At what point in 2015, if it's going to happen in 2015 at all?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19416	Mr. Djurishic, I really don't have a comment on this. The citizens will be able to see how you abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The replica and you have enabled the replica now to Mr. Babic. Here you are, Mr. Granny, for mentioning your name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19417	Someone here moments ago, but also in today's debate, expressed a desire to lecture the SNS parliamentary group. What we were present in the days behind us, that lectures were held by many. They gave lectures from the wind, calling the chairman – cattle. We had a lecture in environmental science, calling the chairman – garbage. You gave us a lecture from forestry, inviting us into the woods and driving us into the woods. You know, illegals go to the woods. We are legally elected representatives of the citizens of RS, and you cannot force us into the forest unless you are an expert in the field of forestry. As for this desire to fight now for Serbian citizens to live better, you know, you've had 12 years and 12 years of Serbian citizens living worse and worse, while you and former regime representatives have been living better and better. Instead of being equal and all living equally, we are now fighting for a more orderly, stable, better state where all citizens will live better, including you, Mr. Djurisic. As for the chapter, I believe that the first chapters will be opened in early 2015, the process is not so easy, nor so non-chalant. You know, Mr. Djurisic, maybe those chapters would open up a lot faster if you didn't use every moment, whether outside our country or Serbia, whenever one of the EU's representatives comes, regretting that there's no freedom of the media, that there's nothing I don't know, and you're more at RTS than I am at public service than I am at RTS. Maybe if there wasn't this constant trip you're doing, I don't know why, and if it wasn't political hatred, maybe this opening-up process would be much faster and more quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19418	Thank you, Mr. Babic. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the word of the peoples is Ambassador Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19419	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the Honored Chairman, I am advertising Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. - The speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. That didn't happen during the speech of the two last speakers, especially the speaker who spoke before Mr Babic. So why do I feel that dignity has been violated? Because he came to us in the group and talked about some anti-Europeanism, asoccupied to radicals, to the '90s, etc. I wasn't a member of the SRS. In the future, when he says that he respects Parliament's dignity, he needs to exclude me from that group, and in that regard, let me say, if they're so distasteful in the '90s, they shouldn't violate dignity by transferring someone else's co-operation with radicals. They, or their party president, together with their MPs at the time passed the Constitution, the law of all laws along with the SRS. Well, when he's already moving someone to co-operation with the SRS, let him go on his own, and let him in the future not disrupt the dignity of the National Assembly, in the way they've been trying lately to associate it with the '90s, to the evil radicals. If they were so evil, why did you bring the Constitution with them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19420	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Mrs. Comic on what grounds? (Gordana Comić, from the post: By amendment. I thank you. The word then has Marko Djurisic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19421	Thank you, Your Honor. I have to admit it's hard to convince someone else not to hate him. I mean, I don't know what words I'd be able to explain. I have not insulted any of my fellow MPs in my work or in my performances here. I didn't use offensive terms, as you know. I received insults to myself and did not respond to them as someone who did. Who and how he worked these previous years, I will be happy to talk and participate in any discussion of any decision that has been made here in the previous years, who has stood up for what I have been up for, and I will be happy to talk to and talk about, because I have no problem and none of what I have done is ashamed or today I want to forget that it happened and pretend that I did not participate, which is the manner of the ruling party's MPs, because it's as if they have amnesia on everything that's happened and what they've been doing until 2008, 2009. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia was not brought by parties to the elections by citizens, in a referendum, I apologize. Whether he's good or not, I'm sure each of us has an opinion. What I believe is that at that moment, there was a measure of compromise that could have been made, and I would like this government and the parties that govern Serbia today to work on making compromises, not creating...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19422	Time, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19423	... antagonism among parties and among citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19424	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic. Here you go. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: On what basis? ) Since the parliamentary group is mentioned, the ruling break and everything else, and Mr Babic is the head of the parliamentary group and is not an authorised representative in the hall. Based on that, just like you got.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19425	May I ask you, Mr. Becic, or Mr. Djurisic to ask for these 22 seconds to return?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19426	I'll count, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19427	Thank you. It's not hard to admit a mistake. It is not difficult to draw, it is easier to draw from others’ mistakes of instruction, harder and more expensive from their mistakes. It's not even hard to admit and change. It's not hard to say, yes, it was wrong of me to say and what I stood for. But in all that's happened to us, many in this room should have a lesson that it's not hard to admit that you're 12, in some parts, here, now and 14 years in power, with 6% support, that you don't understand what you're wrong about, that you don't change that. The Serbian Progressive Party was formed on 7 September 2008, at the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, on the fact that it was my pleasure to be for something, not forever against, as you are doing right now. I will, and I will never mention that Marko Djurisic hates it again. Here, I commit myself, but if Marko Djurisic commits to not having him at every forum, international forum, in front of any international guest who comes to us at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to complain about self-censorship and censorship, and more in the media than I am, he's more in electronic media than I am. Here, I admit, I will no longer mention the expression that Mr. Djurisic hates if Mr. Djurisic admits reality and says that there are no autocensorships and censorships in Serbia. Look yourself in the mirror, it's not hard to admit a mistake. It's not hard to say – yes, we were responsible for 12 years. Don't offer more to people in Serbia, mirage. Don't offer pink glasses. Don't talk about something that isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19428	Mr. Granny, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19429	Here's another sentence. We'd better have merger points for all of our policies. And as I am pleased to say that the European path, the European perspective of EU membership, is the point of merger for all of our policies, let us focus this force on opening chapters, to focus on this path, towards this goal, and not this way to get some points from which Serbia has nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19430	Thank you, Mr. Babic. There's a lot of people down there. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19431	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I cannot say that there is a problem with freedom of the media in Serbia, with censorship and self-censorship, because it is in the European Commission's report, because it was found by the OSCE, through its trustee in letters addressed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I can't not talk about it, because today's TV broadcast is gone, because the president of the National Assembly has voluntarily decided against this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19432	Don't deceive the citizens, the transmission's only delayed, like many times so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19433	I ask you not to interrupt me and speak for at least two and a half minutes, as Mr. Babic said, please. So, I can't talk about it, because when a public service journal reports about the Republic of Serbia's budget, the report lasts 10 minutes, and what I was saying lasted seven seconds from the other opposition party for 12 seconds, and that's all the opposition could hear in reporting to the public service on the discussion of the Republic of Serbia's budget. All the rest of the time, all the other nine minutes, and, I don't know, 31 seconds, I miscalculated, 41 seconds, and I measured, talked about what the government said, what the ministers, the Prime Minister and the ruling coalition said about the budget. It's not freedom of the media, it's not equality and I'll talk about it every time I get a chance. I do not think that this is hurting the Republic of Serbia and its interests, on the contrary, I think I am improving and that I can contribute to improving the situation in Serbia, making it better for us, to speed up our European integration and to achieve the ambitious goal that the government has set, which is to end the negotiations by 2018.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19434	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19435	That goal, here, in the first year, we can realize that zero is achieved. Zero, because neither negotiations have started and will likely not start in the first six months, and you know well how many representatives of our party advocate it at meetings that discuss the accession of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19436	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The word has the head of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19437	I have no desire, as a previous speaker, to arrange a public service, so that I can determine who will speak for how many seconds, who will be in what contribution. I guess it's a relapse from the past when they were doing media editing and determining who was going to do what. If they measured those seven or twelve seconds, the Serbian Progressive Party when it was opposition, it measured its presence in the media and in the public service not in seconds, in nano seconds. It just so happens that if they show us somewhere in the hall, it's great. Otherwise, what we were saying, that didn't stand a chance. On the other hand, I really don't see what it could have been for more than seven seconds, because the main problem with the budget was cattle. You know, cattle lasts an incomplete second. You bastard. Well, how about two minutes to be a constant contribution -- garbage, garbage, garbage, cattle, cattle. It can't be any different. It's the only regrets of the budget they've been going through. Let's be realistic. What are those people on RTS doing? How come they draw a good comment, such a sentence, so summed up a sentence of one word - cattle? How come they're two minutes away? I think something like that is really impossible. I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for seeing correctly and there lies the very hatred, which is something you do not represent, here – there is no transmission, and the transfer is delayed and will be watched tonight from 20.00 hours. Why is it hard to say a delayed transmission? What leads a man to talk about things that are false and that I have heard so many times from the previous speaker that simply or I could...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19438	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19439	Let me just finish my sentence, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19441	... I add some kind of political hatred to the opponents, but also to my country.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19442	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a 30-minute break. We continue work at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19443	I think the break's over, it's 25 to three. We agreed to have a break by 2:30. I expect the minister to join us. There's the minister. I thank you for your accuracy. We can get started. The 117th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Blagoja Bradic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Katarina Rakic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Vojislav Vujic, Zolatan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Aleksandar Senić, Milosav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy has submitted to Article 140 of the amendment. The president of the proposal accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19444	Okay, first of all, I would like to thank everyone who participated in the creation of this amendment, which is due to the need that we all felt together during the debate in principle, to further comply with certain provisions of the Energy Act with the Law on Planning and Construction, which defines the connection to the distribution network. As the public knows, the Ministry of Construction Affairs has defined in the Law on Planning and Construction a system of united procedures when issuing a building permit and defined certain procedures that enter the segment of the connection to the distribution network. The Ministry of Mining and Energy as a Resorient Ministry, which provides a framework for all these activities, was of the view that in respect of procedures and deadlines, it is also necessary to take into account the technical criteria that must be met to ensure that this connection to the distribution network is implemented in addition to effective, taking into account the efficiency, that it must take into account, above all, technical elements guaranteeing reliability, guaranteeing security and, in the end of the day, that, when all this is completed, it will provide one secure and secure supply to energy. This amendment de facto, one, let me say, sublimation of all of this, gives procedures and deadlines that are in line with these elements and the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which accepts the model of united procedure, but on the other hand retains all the strict technical principles that lead us to a point that is the final solution to association.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19445	Thank you. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 141st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 142, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 145 of the amendment, the MP, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, submitted. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic together submitted the 157th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted the amendment to Article 158. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 158th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk envoy, Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19446	As you see, Presidents, regardless of what you have ordered the Director of Television to shut down the transmission, we are very resilient to explain our amendments, so we are not only doing it for the public, or we are doing it primarily because this law is as high-quality as possible when adopted, but especially because of the fact that we believe that the minister will make an effort to make this law and apply, contrary to the practice of passing laws and not applying them. This amendment to Article 158. We have passed the energy law for the reason we believe that it is contrary to the unique methodological rules for the making of the law. In this article, you referred to the Law on Public Property, even quoting "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 72 of 2011, 83 of 2013 and 105 of 2014. We believe that this is contrary to these rules and in general to the possibility of functioning a single legal system because you are calling for one law which at this point is part of a positive legal system but can already be changed by only one amendment and supplementing the law and you will have a problem. In fact, we propose to say instead – a law that regulates public property. I think it's always been a practice so far, and I don't see why you refused this amendment. You've literally overlooked it, or I don't know, because it can happen that public property is arranged in more laws than changing this law, so it can be subject to more laws. Therefore, I ask you, Minister, to accept this amendment because it will give greater stability and sustainability to this law. The possibility of him even after the Law on Public Property has changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19447	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Vojislav Vujic, Zolatan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Aleksandar Senić, Milosav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19448	I thank the esteemed president. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, MPs from positions and opposition who signed and submitted this amendment, had in mind that the inflow of investments, the development of the market economy, could not possibly go parallel to any restriction. Thus, this amendment concerns that Article 162 should provide for a safeguard mechanism for renewable energy producers if they consider that system operators do not justifiably restrict their right to the power acquisition championship. We are concerned about the potential possibility of this happening, and it is not in line with EU Directive 29/2009. which refers to the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources. In such cases, manufacturers must be able to review such an operator’s decision, and what would most appropriately be if the Energy Agency itself were the competent authority to comply with the requirements of the manufacturer and would have the authority to order the operator to do what the law requires its business to do. So, to stop limiting energy takeover, as well as to submit appropriate applications against the operator, which is very important to have executive power, executive instruments, to punish those who influence the market is limited, that the market is not liberal enough and of course it is not in the interest and it is not in line with the good principles of the market economy and the liberalised market that the government of the RS and, of course, the resolute Ministry of Energy, so that in this way we only wanted to through this amendment and through these proposals which, hopefully, are constructive, extend the powers of the energy agency itself so that there is no possibility to limit those players who are on the market, their rights clearly defined by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19449	Thank you. To the title above Article 165, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word wants Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19450	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. I think it is good that the amendment submitted by colleagues Marko Djurisic, Dr Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic were accepted, and in this regard, my question to the minister, because I think it is important that he remain without any doubt, when it comes to the third package, the fact that it is an obligation arising from earlier commitments and, in that sense, there are no direct ties to the negotiations, but several members, between them and this, in one way or another, will be tied to the negotiations whenever, and how they are opened. In that sense, my question is Minister, since the decision was made to open chapters, including this on energy, and every other chapter goes together with Chapter 35. That's all the other questions. In the case of Serbia, it is quite clear that it is the control of the implementation of the Brussels Agreement and we support, both control and all that we as MPs can do to prove that the government is telling the truth in front of all those who are being negotiated, the opening of certain chapters is required. These are national parliaments, not the European Parliament. What I know for now is that neither the European Commission has a clear recommendation on how Chapter 35 will be agreed. What kind of instruction will be so that all national parliaments can give consent to open both chapters 32 and 23 and 24 and energy and environmental protection, etc., so I wonder if the minister has more information and how the opening of negotiations will work on, I will not tell the technical level, because these are nevertheless mixed political negotiations and technical, Chapter 35 with a review, let's say here, about cross-border co-operation and what we have committed to the Brussels Agreement? Energy is not directly there, other things are there, but in perspective simply additional valid information from which I think would benefit both us and the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19451	Thank you. Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19452	First of all, what is the consequence of the Brussels Agreement is that, of course, the segment of everything that is related to Chapter 35 is reflected in many segments, including, of course, energy and what at the moment is the fact that we, through the office, are carrying out certain steps related to this segment of energy, that a certain agreement has been signed between the EMS and their agency there, i.e. the "Kost" company, and that this agreement defines that segment, related to the transmission of electricity, or segment of the relationship between the two operators of that system. Full implementation of everything, that's something that's ahead of us. We also have before us the formation of a company that should be with the Serb municipalities community, which should deal with supplying primarily northern Kosovo and it goes on some of its walks and I think it is quite a high degree of consistency over all of it. I have to say that when it comes to energy, there are always things a little higher than others, to say, business activities because energy is objectively not familiar with borders and it's impossible to treat systems in isolation and it's impossible to allow...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19453	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19454	... There is a problem in one place and I would remind you that some time ago, it seems to me that this summer, when a thermal block exploded at the Kosovo thermal power plant, Obilić, that we then opened our transmission systems and provided electricity to the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19455	Thank you. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19456	So, two minutes as a proposing. I would not particularly like to thank the Minister, or the Government for accepting a dozen of our amendments, because we feel that we have worked together to correct this law, and the only thing I would like to say is the fact that our MP group and when they were the subject of this debate are budgetary laws, to call them that reprogramme, i.e. borrowing, rebalancing, budgetary laws, that we have been very actively involved with, I would say very good-quality amendments and that we are also doing so in this debate when it comes to energy and it is clear to all who have read our amendments that we have read the law even though we have very little time to do so. We don't even mind the president shutting down today's television broadcast...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19457	Please, I have to, I've let you say it two or three times. First of all, disabling the transmission doesn't exist, and there's no one verbally...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19458	You've ruled out direct transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19459	There's no disengagement of direct transmission, and you know it's not even that kind of...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19460	You've ordered the director of television to shut down the transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19461	No, it's not that. Let's go again now. So, the secretary general...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19462	You spoke in front of my eyes to the RTS TV representative and ordered him to shut down the transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19463	Yeah, TV representatives, cameramen, don't make decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19464	You talked to them, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19465	No, it's just for the public, I'm talking to you, it's going to be really weird, you're going to be talking in transmission, and no one's going to understand you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19466	In a delayed transmission, i.e. a rerun after midnight.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19467	That's right, apologize to me and tell me I didn't turn off the transmission...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19468	Yes, you've turned off the transmission. You ordered to shut down the transmission, but I'll talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19469	Okay, so it's going to be very unusual, I'm talking to the citizens, I'm going to return, I'm just not allowing you to deceive the public from this distinguished home and that you're violating Parliament's dignity by deluding the citizens of Serbia. I have to react, I'll give you some time, if you need more. So the truth is because of the citizens who will be confused because they will see you standing, speaking, and nothing will be clear to them what you are talking about. So the transfer cannot be excluded, the transfer is delayed thanks to the request of the Secretary-General of this Parliament sent to the director of RTS, the written application and he approved it and we will go to direct transmission. So, your attempt not to exist, the transfer will be presented to the citizens of Serbia, around you will be now at about 22 hours. Therefore, they will find it strange what you say. Here, we'll give you back as much time as I've taken from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19470	To make it clear to the citizens, you've ruled out a direct transmission, and now you're looking at me...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19471	I will sanction this, not because of me, but because of Parliament and the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19472	Now you're looking at me in a delayed transmission, I'd like to ask the minister when he talked about the fact that he accepted this amendment, he talked about integrated governance and some issues concerning cross-border exchanges, I'm not sure whether it was appropriate to mention a Serb community here, because they're not through border co-operation, as far as I'm reading this Constitution, which you and Mr. Antic voted with us, that's one thing. Another thing, a great question for you, since you said several times today that our path to the EU in this segment of energy has been accelerated due to the adoption of the Brussels Agreement. In order for it to be realised at KIM, it is necessary to establish a community of Serb municipalities. So far, Mr. Antiću, as our wish, the opposition, you have assured us that the Serb municipalities community will receive an executive, and I do not know which other power, that they will be able to deal with these issues as well. That hasn't happened yet. What did you sign and when a community of Serb municipalities will be formed to realize that this member of you would be cross-border co-operation, any co-operation on the territory of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19473	The word has Alexander Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19474	I mean, my colleague, Veselinovic, that it really wasn't right now. I was answering the question of Mrs. Comic, not the elements of this amendment, so please either listen to me or try not to impute something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19475	Thank you. So you can read the title above article 165, which changes and reads. Not to read any further, it's an amendment. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Read it, please. I don't have that duty. I'd love to. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic together submitted the amendment to Article 167. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19476	I understood that this amendment was accepted. Is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19477	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19478	Article 167?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19479	Yeah, he wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19480	Then I need to explain it. In Article 163, if I'm absolutely right, and I'm giving the possibility that that's not true, it's about rights, not rules for the distribution of cross-border transmission capacities, but they're regulated in Article 164. I'm not really in a position to look at this article 164 but it seems to me that there's been some mistake, but since you haven't accepted the amendment, it's possible that in your explanation that this impotence, our proposal to change this, you may be right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19481	Dr. Crescent. Vladimir Orlic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19482	A little help in this matter, indeed, in Article 164, rules are defined, although I believe that nothing would be wrong and that the formulation would remain as it is, for the reasons that it is not, but the procedure itself, defined by Article 163. So if we don't take the context as a reference to the rules of a member of the law, but to the transmission system, then it's perfectly fine to address Article 163. Otherwise, the question really isn't essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19483	On Article 180 of the amendment, they put together... .. I apologize, Gordana Komic, according to the previous amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19484	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. I think it would be worth considering accepting this amendment, because the attitude to which it is changed is not quoted by Article 163 but 164 says - the rules for the distribution of cross-border transmission capacities in Article 163. Article 163 does not speak of rules and has two attitudes. The first point is, access to the cross-border electricity exchange system is achieved on the basis of the rights to extend cross-border transmission capacity. The second position, the right to use cross-border transmission capacity is allocated in a non-discriminatory and transparent manner, in accordance with the harmonised technical criteria of work of related transmission systems, and the rules for the distribution of cross-border transmission capacities, unless it applies to this last part of the sentence, in which Article 164, the last part of the sentence is defined through five positions and only talks about the rules on the allocation of the right to use. Perhaps it would be more convenient and clearer to quote Article 164 instead of this article in 163 because there are really rules in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19485	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19486	Although I am now in a small dilemma, and I would be happiest if I wrote 163 and 164, although in Article 163 we end up saying that – and the rules for the distribution of cross-border transmission capacities. If you'll just give me 30 seconds to consult with my associates.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19487	All right. He'll be speaking by then. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19488	I wanted to get involved with this, too, and I'm absolutely right. He's completely wrong, he's kind of right, and I think we should find a solution, the rules that are being arranged, we've clearly called on Article 164 and they're listed there. In Article 163, we're partly talking about it, and I think it's a mistake, and maybe we can make amends, or something like that, and if it stays like this, it'll be inaccurate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19489	We can also stop in the vote, if we vote both and agree on something. I'm sorry about the intervention. The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19490	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19491	The amendment is accepted, and then we'll see what we've done with the entire text of the law. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 180th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the amendment in 199. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National Messenger Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19492	Article 199 refers to unauthorized consumption, which is determined by the transmission operator and paragraph 3 says that regular control of the measurement site is normally carried out once every 6 months and for a maximum period of one year. We suggested that it goes on a monthly level. The ministry responded, the amendment is not accepted, given that the control of the place of measurement can only be carried out by professionals, and the proposed dynamics significantly increases business costs. I would inform you, not the ministers, but the workers of the Ministry, because I have no doubt in your goodwill that the object of the theft of electricity is at an annual level of 7 billion dinars. Control doesn't hurt anyone, and we all strive to prevent abuses, to prevent unauthorized use, to pay bills. What is the problem if the company involved in the sale of electricity controls the numbers, and if it is obliged to reduce that manipulation by consumption of energy to the lowest possible extent. If you're on the one hand to prevent abuse, and on the other hand we say we can't control it, because it's expensive, and I think seven billion is a big number, and she's the only reason for control. I think Ministers that you should support this, and those who deal with the sale of energy, they have to organize and reduce the break-up so-called. and abuse. That's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19493	The word has a minister in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19494	First of all, I have to ask that we read all the views in order. There are two procedures. One procedure is regular, and the other is emergency control. We have attributed this measure to the procedure of regular control, which is something that is minimal and the consequence of the regulation of the Meteorology Act, which has defined the period during which measurements of measurement places must be carried out. From the point of view of saving and controlling the unauthorized consumption of electricity, let's say Serbian for stealing electricity, there are extraordinary controls and that's what our distributions are doing, and I have to say that in certain distribution systems, there's been a huge leap. Now that in this process of reorganising the EPS, we define a single ODS, and when we establish unique criteria for all five distribution centres, I believe that these controls will be even more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19495	Thank you. Mr. Bradic, do you want a replica? I don't think you're right, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19496	The result of this situation in billing and stealing electricity, as we agreed, is the existence of periodic, regular, these at six months and periodic ad hoc emergency controls. I think that what was periodical and what depends on any decision, let's not at least introduce politics in this member, we should put it in order and make it a commitment and it should be something permanent and have some continuity to have, so that those who regularly pay don't have to carry through their payment and the costs of those who don't pay, that it is regular, because if it is regular, if it is, say, for six months, that someone who distributes electricity, he might be insolvent, so maybe he'll raise the loans, so maybe interest will be paid. In the end, they'll pay regular wages. My suggestion is to keep it regular and make it a commitment, not to be someone's decision. It's my vision of solving the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19497	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19498	Mr. Bradich, it's not a loss of seven billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19499	Please don't speak directly to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19500	So the total loss resulting from the EPS is over 24 billion dinars. It's a technical and commercial loss. The technical loss is about 7% of what is loss, so the commercial loss resulting from the theft of 12 billion 828 million dinars. Today when you talk about ODS, distribution system operators, they're in two kinds of problems. One is charge and the other is commercial and technical losses. What's interesting is that in 2014 ODS has now charged over 95% of the electricity delivered. So, the ODS don't have a charge problem today. They have a loss problem. This loss can only be resolved in a way that we will introduce and we will see the new amendments that you have proposed to this law, by introducing new measuring places. It certainly solves the problem in many ways. But the point is that in Serbia, which has about 3 million numbers, in order for your amendment to work, you have to hire more than 5,000 new people at the moment, and it is clear that and if you could hire them, there are not enough competent and high-quality people who can carry out regular control every month on all counts. That is why this amendment is technically not possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19501	The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19502	Thank you. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, I agree with the explanation of Minister Antić and that this proposed dynamic significantly increases business costs, and as regards those measures implemented in terms of electricity collection, counterpart Bradic knows very well that the southeast has made major shifts in this regard, in terms of the collection of illegally used electricity. So this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19503	Thank you. Mr. Bradiche, you can only pick up the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19504	Thank you. I'm trying to understand what my colleagues told me. I'm really trying. I understood the minister completely. On the one hand, we have losses. I propose an amendment to get us into the permanent control of the measuring places, to rule out the possibility of technical loss, the losses resulting from theft, to narrow them down to the least possible extent, that the system does not suffer because we have unconscious users, and then I come up with an explanation that this is technically inconclusive. So, according to you, you're up for these losses to still exist. That's how I see it. To get back to the beginning of my story this morning. Each one of us is experiencing a law solution in its own way, in accordance with the policy it advocates. You think it should still be. I don't think it's good, and I say why it's not good, and the citizens are watching, so they're gonna say who's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19505	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19506	Very briefly, since I assume that the main issue of the practical enforceability of the solution is the way proposed by the Amendment Proposer, who is put here in discussion by other colleagues, the number of people who need to be defined professional qualifications in order to implement this in the way that the Amendment Proposer proposes. If there's some information we haven't heard, in terms of personnel capacity and estimated costs, it would be good to bring it out now. If we don't have such data, I think we've heard enough, in terms of argument, that this solution is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19507	Thank you. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 200th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 201 of the amendment, MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to Article 211 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic submitted the title above Article 231 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19508	This is another amendment that we have made and which the minister, or government, has accepted. I would refer to it, given that we have resolved the dilemma about this member, the practical enforceability of this member and these laws, regardless of the discarding from the parliamentary benches, it is known which, in practice, enforceability of this law. Because, in order for energy operators, i.e. heat producers, electricity, etc. to have self-sustainability, it is necessary for them to have adequate charging of heat consumption in their system. When speaking of this in his own time here, and when the Prime Minister was present, he called on one of the MPs, my colleague Camberi, to pay for electricity, and he had no courage over the electoral body to invite all Serbian citizens to pay for electricity. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19509	Looks like your story doesn't accept the system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19510	I'm counting on this microphone not being politically sensitive, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19511	Maybe he's reacting to the false.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19512	... Or the fact that you've abolished a direct television broadcast, so that the citizens are looking at you with delay. So this is about the practical enforceability of this member and all the other members of the Energy Act because of the simple imbalance of the system and the fact that this system with inadequate prices, and yet not more adequate purchasing power for citizens, will not be sustainable for longer periods. Of which pensioners, workers, etc., whose salaries are reduced, some of whom are frozen salaries, will pay your energy, and who will pay it in the budget... There is no item that will solve this problem, Mr. Anticu.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19513	Mr. Veselinovic, do you now convince Mr. Antic to withdraw the acceptance of the amendment? (Janko Veselinović, from the place: No, but the whole law to apply. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, head of the parliamentary group, replica [[Janko Veselinović, from the place: Why the replica? What did they identify themselves by? By what do they gain?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19514	Can I, Mr. Veselinovic, speak? Can I get a word out of Mr. Veselinović when there is a word and when there is no? You know, someone's trying to act like they're in the National Assembly, in the House of the People's Assembly, and there's no other MPs in this room who listen carefully, debate carefully, listen carefully to the conversants on the other side, without wanting to caricate, without wanting to take the first word or the last word or something from the middle, so they can add something of their own. Mr. Alexander Vukic is Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has made very clear and explicitly asked his colleague, Kamberi, to transfer the invitation to all citizens, as well as citizens of Serbia living in Presevo, Medvedji and Bujanovac, that electricity is necessary to pay for, spent. Is that the problem? Is it a problem to call, and when the Prime Minister calls for bills to be paid, to pay taxes, to pay VAT, to pay excise taxes? It's the job of a responsible man. It's a job of a brave man, and those who, because of political trade, because of the trade in votes, because of the desire to stay in power, sent messages – you don't have to do anything, but support our candidates or support our option, these people have made the biggest problem for Serbia's Electrodistribution and other public enterprises, because they traded something that wasn't theirs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19515	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19516	I have to stand by this opportunity to defend what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia is doing and the way it stands out with the government's views, as well as to repeat that in the last few weeks, the Prime Minister and I, as Minister of Energy, have on several occasions presented the fact that the sustainability of this whole package with the IMF has been linked, to a good extent, and to pay for the obligations relating to energy, i.e. to the stability of two companies, which are EPS and "Srbigas". We have some problems in certain parts of the Republic of Serbia, above all on the part of the territory that covers the Elektrodistribution Vranje. There we do different campaigns and different campaigns to increase charges. That call was directed that way. But it's not just that. We have serious messages that we have focused on local self-government, related to paying commitments for Gazprom and the Public Enterprise "Serbiagas", as well as a whole set of measures that we are working towards companies in restructuring, and above all according to the chemical complex regarding their obligations to pay for energy. What I want to do today is repeat what is a firm decision and the government's policy is that everyone has to pay for energy and that there will be no privileges in this system. I want to take another chance and thank the citizens of Serbia, because Serbian citizens have paid the most regularly for both gas and electricity. I must add that, first of all, our oldest citizens should be most commended, no matter how much they receive, no matter how much they're not on that level, which everyone would like, because they first pay their bills and thank them for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19517	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Veselinović, by amendment? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. On whose display? (Janko Vesenović, from the post: At Mr Babic's presentation. It's been a long time. Unless you consider Mr. Secretary's exposure... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19518	As a matter of fact, you reminded me that there was no point in speaking with the replica not to the previous one, but to the apostle before him. Indeed, what Minister Antic said makes sense to discuss, rather than replicate. Namely, Mr. Anticu, no one disputes the necessity for all citizens to pay their dues. Those who don't have that option, they're social cases, they need to be helped by the state. Minister Mihajlovic, if you remember, spoke about some social cards, and those social cards were not made. It is not good that the collection selectivity exists, by party membership, by ethnicity and thus by invitations. The only thing that matters is that someone registered as a buyer of electricity, heat, gas, etc., regardless of their belongings. That is the problem, Mr. Anticu, in selectivity. Mr. Antic, I'm glad you sent an appeal to all the citizens and all the legal entities, I presume. Is that right? I looked yesterday, preparing to argue under this law the debts of legal persons in Novi Sad. That was the closest thing I could get. The Socialist Party of Serbia owes three million dinars for unpaid heat energy in Novi Sad. Three million dinars. The rural board and the city board, and where is equality, Mr Antiću, and how many citizens, not Kamberi, but Markovic, Petrovic and others are excluded from the system because they did not pay, and the SPS and many other parties are heating up without paying?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19519	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19520	I thank my esteemed colleague for caring so much about the SPS. But at the same time, thanks to me, I stress that there are enough inside the SPS to take care of our accounts. I am merely expressing my surprise - who will pay the debts of the former DS, because they think that, by reregistering the party in the SDP and secession from the parent DS, citizens have forgotten the debts that have been accumulated for many years and more than a decade. I warn him to clean up in his backyard first, to see his former party pay bills that many Serbian citizens are aware of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19521	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19522	I have never experienced that the government of the Republic of Serbia, neither I as minister nor prime minister, has made a discriminatory call for payment. Don't let one of the polemics, which was congregational character, rise to that level that doesn't belong to him. That's one. Under two, I repeat, local self-governments in a particular segment have certain measures to subsidise the payment of municipal services, including heat. I repeat that at the division of the Ministry of Mining and Energy there are 680 million dinars for commitments to the energy-protected buyer, so those most vulnerable social categories have, I repeat, 120 to 240 kilowatts of free electricity per month relative to the number of household members, of course, the same amount of gas and heat. When it comes to what you've asked me and what you've commented on about the debt to heat power of the SPS, first of all, I have to point out that the issue of heat collection is the issue of local self-government that they need to edit, and now I'm going to come out of the context of what I'm responding to here as minister and as a functionator of the SPS I'll remind you that it's two objects, that both objects are large squares, that around that level of debt that you're talking about cannot represent some long-term or multi-monthly accumulated debt, but it's probably some ongoing debt that could be for one, two or possibly three months of war. But, in any case, if that is true, we, in addition to what counterpart Vukomanovic said, owe as a responsible party an apology to the citizens of Novi Sad and the promise that we will pay that account in the shortest time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19523	Thank you. The word is from MP Janko Veselinović, about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19524	I don't really want to continue on these topics, and I want to go back to the amendments. I'm simply not going to comment on the individual debts of political parties, but, Mr. Antic, when we had a budget debate, then we had a debate on the borrowing of "Serbiagas". Your colleague, the director of “Srbigas” said – we must be in charge because distributors and heat sources owe us for gas. So, when some political party or some individual there doesn't pay gas to the main gas distributor in Serbia, then he transfers that obligation to the gas supplier, in this case the Russian company, and then because he can't pay those obligations, then the state owes, or takes over the debt, so it's related things, Mr Antic. And because the local self-government owns the public enterprise, it has nothing to do with it, the debt reflects directly on "Srbiagas", and "Srbigas" asks us to take charge of it and pay back those debts. I hope you agree on this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19525	Mr. Veselinović, you have 30 seconds left from the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you. Once again, I find that this amendment has been accepted and has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Mr. Veselinović, do you want to speak according to this amendment? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19526	I just want to publicly conclude that another amendment to our parliamentary group of me and my fellow Members of Parliament has been accepted and has become an integral part of this law, so we have thus significantly improved this law. We'd like the citizens to see it during the day, during the day-to-day equinox, not around midnight, but it's due to the president of the Assembly that lifted the direct television broadcast, so they'll hear it around midnight.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19527	You again, old story. We have a delayed transmission, Mr. Veselinovic. I do it for you, because citizens will be very surprised to see you speak and say that sentence. The 236th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted the amendment to Article 238. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted to the 263rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19528	Article 263 speaks of advanced measurement systems and says that the distribution system operator establishes technical requirements for the introduction of various forms of advanced measurement systems and analyses the technique and economic justification for the introduction of advanced measurement systems, effects on market development and benefits for individual categories of natural gas end-users. This attitude we are talking about says: "The plan for implementation of Article 2 of this Article will include a minimum of 80% of the place of transfer in the category of final natural gas customers for which economic justification and implementation has been established". We suggested 100% because the bill promoter, the Ministry, did not say in any sentence why 80% and why if someone is a legitimate customer and if someone has that name, that they have economic justification and implementation, why not 100% but 80%? I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19529	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19530	Thank you. So try to be of extra help to understand this too. This is one of the amendments that have been asked with a more or less identical question -- where have certain numerical values been taken to define certain percentages? As under Article 109, we had a question and an answer, otherwise given both by the ministry and by our colleagues here, that it was about the values defined in the directive, which is explicitly, precisely, in the context of the government. There were some strange suggestions to conclude that it didn't stand. So, just to repeat for the record, what is shown as the number of the directive is shown precisely in the light of the amendment for Article 109, and we had the same thing for Article 138. There is 80% explicitly indicated. This is about Directive 2009/73 where I cannot swear to stand the same percentage, but there are equalitys in matter of matter, i.e. advanced, measuring systems, as in Directive 2009/72. From there and the origin of the projected percentage, I suppose, will correct me if I'm wrong. In addition, I believe that if there is already a certificate of sufficient consistency with the materials we want to adopt, there is no reason to introduce stricter criteria than those, and certainly 100% would be a stricter requirement than 80%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19531	Thank you. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. Mr. Bradic, you have no right to a replica. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: he talks to me all the time.) ) Mr. Bradic, I am absolutely sure that Mr. Orlic will never cause a replica or very rarely. I listened very carefully. If it were any other MP, I might have thought I might have heard something, but I listened very carefully to Mr. Orlic. (Blagoje Bradic, from the scene: He talks to me all the time, talks about the amendment. ) He mentioned an amendment that was submitted. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: I have submitted the amendment, addressed me, asked him. ) Just putting up with the amendment is not enough reason for your replication. Mr. Bradiche, I've given enough replicas today. It's no problem for me to give it now, but that's what you might be able to pick up whenever someone's discussing the word. You have 30 seconds per amendment, if you want to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19532	So this is about what we've been talking about since the beginning of this debate. The ministry passed an act, passed a bill on energy, calling for everything written in the law to be done because of commitments taken. Let me remind you, at first I read that the Republic of Macedonia in co-operation with the Energy Community has delayed the suspension of regulated electricity prices over a period of 5 years. That's what we're talking about, everything you've called us to not want to go to Europe, not to understand European values, to have double standards, to talk about one thing, and to do another. There was the possibility of negotiations and arrangements for certain positions under the commitments we took. That's why I'm asking – what does it have to do with a high-quality categorized buyer whether it's 80 or 100%? They deserve 100%, and did we have to take that into 80%? And that's what EPS is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19533	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. You see, you were looking at Mr. Orlic, and he has no right to replication. Members of the 265th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Vojislav Vujic, Zoltan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Aleksandar Senić, Milosav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy has submitted to Article 265 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19534	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow Members, as well as in the case of Article 140, which applied to electricity, so the amendment of the Committee to Article 265 was drawn up in the same text, by which it relates to gas and should in fact agree on all those amendments and additions to the Civil Engineering Act in the process of a united procedure and of the part relating to the consent to the connection to the network. I think that, on the basis of this formulation, an adequate solution has indeed been found and the minister has otherwise accepted this amendment on the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19535	The word is Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19536	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here is once again to take the opportunity to thank, on behalf of my fellow Members and the position and opposition, who have proposed such an amendment, which is proposed by the Committee for a small minor change, on our behalf and of course on behalf of the entire Parliament, because by agreeing and accepting this amendment, they will have positive implications and go in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction, which is very important for future investments and for the speed of obtaining both permits and connections, which is also how they will have a positive impulse on our country's jump when it comes to the World Bank rating, when it comes to the debt business and all that it wanted and what was the main purpose of this fundamental Law on Planning and Construction, which is the last one in this set of reform laws, so that our country can attract more foreign investment to be made for real economic development and future investment. So I thank you for your sensitivity and your desire to help fully implement this law in full capacity, which was most important in the last three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19537	Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted the amendment to Article 266. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted the 267th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19538	I thank the chairman. Mr Minister, Article 267 deals with the approval of the facility to transport or distribution system containing, in particular, the place of connection to the system, mode and technical conditions of connection, the approved capacity, the place and manner of measurement of natural gas, the time limit for connection and the cost of the connection, technical and other conditions of connection to the transport or distribution system shall be determined in accordance with this law, the regulations laid down under this law, technical and other rules on the operation of the system to which the facility is connected, and we shall add – without taking into account the different natural gas pressure conditions under the transport or distribution system. What were we thinking? We note once again that it is just the discrimination of customers if the connection or energy connected to different places of the distribution or transport system, if we have clearly defined what is distributive and what the transport system is, pay different prices. It is crystal clear that the customer should not suffer the consequences of irrational construction of the distribution and transport network. Why, for example, a small entrepreneur with the same average consumption connection to a single bar pressure grid and a 15 bar pressure grid would have a different price? How do you think a civil servant will explain this to a domestic or especially foreign investor? In this way, we will also influence the price of production and final product, so I would ask that you accept this amendment because it will make it clear to whoever is to look for this connection what its rights are, and no one will be able to charge him a different price for the same amount of gas depending on where it is being added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19539	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to Article 269 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted together to the 281st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreć, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreć, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together and together Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senić. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreć, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreć, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted the amendment to Article 308. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19540	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, this is another proof that we have worked very well to analyze this law and its effects and, of course, we are very pleased that the government has accepted it and in some ways it is our joint job. If we had an Internet connection and we could monitor this session on the Internet and have a television broadcast, this could be seen by the citizens, and not only has television transmission been lifted, but also on the Serbian Parliament website, we can't monitor this session and that's why...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19541	Mr. Vesenovic, for the same reason, a delayed transmission is being held, the citizens will have to watch it tonight and will be surprised at what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19542	That the session is on a delayed transmission, so the session is on a delayed transmission and will look at us at a time when we will not really be in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19543	It's not the first time, Mr. Veselinovic. It's happened many times.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19544	It is the first time that the president of the Assembly has banned direct transposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19545	Mr. Veselinović, it's not right to say something that doesn't suit the truth. You know very well, the National Assembly is the most legislative body and must obey the law. If the law says that in electoral silence there is nothing that can break that electoral silence, we as the National Assembly must respect it. Accordingly, the transfer of the National Assembly has been postponed. Thank you. Here you go, again after the amendment. You've got two minutes left. Perhaps it's better, Chief of Parliament, that you use those two minutes more wisely. Let me give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19546	Allow the chairman to let me decide when to use those two of my minutes. The president didn't give us a clear explanation of the election. Today's elections are for the president of the Republic of Croatia and these are general elections. These are the elections for two local self-governments and that's why you shut down the transmission. That doesn't make any sense, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19547	Mr. Veselinović, here's what I'm going to try to explain to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19548	Surely this is a very important law, you've said it many times. If we had the opportunity now, if there were an election campaign here, we as MPs would be talking about something else all day, not this law that is very important to the citizens of Serbia. By the way, I think in the delayed transmission, we got one more quality debate that citizens will be able to follow in the session. Since you called the president, go ahead. You'll get a chance to ask her, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19549	Thank you. I thought you called me Ambassador Veselinovic. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 309th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic together submitted to the 309th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk envoy, Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19550	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, I thought I called you, I mentioned you. I would like to share my satisfaction with Minister Antic that we have made a better law together and that another amendment has been adopted that will further clarify, complete and allow for more effective application of the law itself. We would have been very pleased to have seen this in direct transmission by the viewers of this transmission, as well as those who are monitoring the Internet. However, the president did not allow us to do so after banning direct transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19551	Thank you, Dr. Janko Veselinović, for making me a commercial like this. Just to answer, there's a direct transmission, don't worry, it's just a little delayed. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Indirect transfer. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19552	Article 107, dignity of the National Assembly. Although, Madam President, you're trying successfully, but they're free when someone listens unsuccessfully, both you and Mr. Becic. I agree this is a local election. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Where is the breach of the Rules of Procedure? ) The injury of the Rules of Procedure is in that, Mrs. Jerkov, who you are so successful in throwing away, that when untrueness is spoken for by the assembly speaker, speaking of amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19553	I understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19554	... and is used to send some other messages that have nothing to do with the truth, the dignity of the National Assembly is humiliated, which Mr. Vesenović is doing very successfully, not only today, but also in the past and in the preeminence of the National Assembly. But I don't know what Mr. Vesenovic is so worried about. His political option doesn't even participate in the elections. They couldn't put together a list, gentlemen of the People's MPs. It's such a successful policy and so many successful messages sent from this National Assembly that people didn't even want those 30.40 candidates to provide. I don't know why Mr. Vesenovic is so worried about the TV transmission that exists in a 20-hour delay, when this "free time" is what he calls it. But to whom should he address? Those environments and those people who didn't even want that list to fit with that name, with that leader?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19555	Ambassador, let's get back to the injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19556	I really don't understand why you insist on it anymore. I don't insist on a vote. A member of 107 was broken every time Mr. Veselinovic took his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19557	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19558	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, Article 106, was injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for he says that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. In fact, the speaker was talking about organising local elections where my political option is not taking part and I don't think it has anything to do with advertising the Rules of Procedure and what's on the agenda today. On the other hand, it is much more honorable not to participate in the elections than to beat up political rivals.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19559	Ambassador, you are now talking about article 106, item 1, right here on the bow. The word has Minister Antic, because he wants to continue the debate, reported after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19560	I would like to thank all the MPs who have given the amendments and to repeat that the definition of us as the promoter and representative of the Government is whether we are really as open as possible to the fact that, together with these amendments, we are looking for an improvement in the text. At the very end, I personally don't mind that this transmission took place in a delayed period. What's more, even if we're supposed to be happy about it here, because this is a unique opportunity for us to enjoy watching ourselves before we go to sleep.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19561	I'm really sorry, you made me laugh. Thank you. The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19562	The post is about amendments that define several members of the exploitation field, oil pipelines and so on, and the amendment which is also accepted and attaches itself to the gas pipeline members, I did not want to take the floor, but I think the member in which I hope to continue negotiations on other pipelines, because all the necessary provisions on non-discriminatory EU accession have been introduced. However, on this point, I would ask the minister beyond any doubt to give us a response on deadlines within the European Energy Community of Southeast Europe, which concerns large beds. In 2013, it was the 2018 deadline, and we know it was wrong, that the deadline was too early. We heard on the board that within the framework of the Council of Ministers whether a definitive agreement has been reached, or whether it is agreed to be in the year 2023. Because I think it is important that we have timely, timely information about it and that, as usual, when it comes to the European Energy Community, let us repeat that we are at our disposal for our support unless a definitive agreement has been reached on the Council of Ministers, that is, for other jobs, because big jobs are waiting for us by 2023, if the agreement is reached, and in a package of this where we normally talk about pipelines and pipelines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19563	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19564	What Mrs Comic asked was a very important question for our energy system and for all citizens of Serbia. Yes, an official agreement has been reached to move this directive on large locks to 2023, with only truths to open this thing to the end. So it's not a period where we don't do anything while we're waiting for the year 2023. There are a number of small sheds that will surely have to go out in the post- 2018 period, and there are a large number of these large bars, fortunately a large number of bars that are most important to our energy system, which have to go to improve technology. It's this detour project that we have to do, first of all in Tent, and that's something we already have certain financial lines for. I'd like to remind you of that Jake Japanese credit line, which is extremely favourable, I think 0.6% interest with a large grace period. That's one segment. In Kostolc, we've already modernised a new block through that Chinese project in the first phase, I think block B2. What I want to add, since it's two minutes out, is that these new thermoblocks that we're planning to do, this new suitor B3 thermoblock and what we're going to do about Stavalj and Kovin, we're going to see what's going to happen to some possible extensions on Tent. These are the most modern technologies that meet all standards and meet all European Union regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19565	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted the 324th amendment. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19566	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this member is in chapter nine, it is oil and oil derivatives, and the title is to carry out the work. In fact, Article 324 states - energy operators carrying out the energy activities of the production of oil products and biofuels and other forms of transport, the storage of biofuels, the transport of oil pipelines, the transport of oil products, the tansports of oil products and biofuels and other forms of transport, means, all related to transport and storage, are obliged to use and maintain energy facilities in accordance with the technical and other regulations relating to the activity they carry out, as well as the conditions of fire protection and explosion, environmental protection, established law and other regulations. It is also said that the provisions of the laws governing mining are applied to entities using aggregate, shipping and storage systems in the fields of exploitation, and when it comes to buildings in this position. We have proposed our amendment to add a new position here that says – for oil pipelines located outside the defined and approved areas of exploitation fields, provisions of Article 330 of this Act are applied, which is a member in the sub-chapter - access to the oil pipeline transport system and the product transport system. Why did we propose this amendment? Namely, it is known that NIS has ownership of all oil pipelines between existing oil fields and shipping stations on Tisa, as well as the New Sad pipeline. If new investors who want to explore and produce oil and gas in Vojvodina appear, this current situation, without the possibility of joining existing NIS-owned pipelines, serves practically as a deterrent factor for them. Also, for the construction of new unnecessarily unnecessarily unnecessarily-needed Vojvodina pipelines, the necessary permits and all the preparatory work on their route would have to be done, and therefore to put additional pressure on the environment. Since we already have NIS there as owner and whoever is using it, I'm not even sure that they respect the elements, or demands of the environment, but about that at some other time. So, the current situation helps NIS remain a monopoly in the part of oil and gas research and production. That was our amendment, or proposal. This amendment has been rejected on the grounds that it is not accepted for the reason that the bill regulates the implementation of energy activities in the field of oil prescribed by this law, if the company which has an oil pipeline exclusively for its own purposes and for which the activity, in accordance with the draft law, does not require a licence. So, as far as I understand this refusal, in this case NIS is transporting only for its own purposes. I find this answer incomprehensible, so please give an additional explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19567	Members of the 330th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to Article 331 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The word has a folk letter from Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19568	I just want to point out, not to get the wrong impression again that we've had great privileges this time, so a lot of our amendments have been adopted, this is still about an amendment that is about editorial intervention. It doesn't matter at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19569	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19570	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and not citizens of Serbia, because you cannot know what the Assembly is discussing today in any way, in Article 345, we have suggested that it be changed and that it is clearly said that energy operators carrying out the activity of the production of heat from oil or coal products, to separate these two things and that it is their obligation to create reserves for at least 15 days of average heat production in January, February and March for the previous five years. The promoter rejected this amendment, and perhaps we should settle now with an explanation for the refusal, but I think this is a convenient opportunity to ask the minister again, given that we have discussed little about the carbon reserves that the Republic of Serbia has currently provided by importing from Romania about the price of that coal. The minister said, I think it's 35.8 euros per tonne for 800,000 tonnes. I've been making some calculations that turn out to be slightly less than 3.8 billion dinars, and it's supposed to be eight billion dinars for that job, so now I don't know if it's the wrong sum of 800 thousand tons of coal from Romania that's being imported or the wrong price. Since the amount of coal we imported does not fit, or bought in Romania, with this price the minister here told us 35.8. It is much closer to that price that some tabloids reported that the price goes over 60 euros per tonne, so here the minister would ask once again to check all the parameters of the imports and that if he could inform us in the coming days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19571	The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19572	I can give you information right now. So the balances were changing, we had at some point even the first estimates that it would be necessary, I think, about three million tons of coal. Some ex post estimates brought it down to about two million plus, minus 20%, and with that kind of parameter, it started. What is after the definitive review of the balances that have resulted in the assessment of when Tamnava will start – the Western field that started a few days ago. Finally, about a million tonnes will be obtained plus, minus 20%, and the price is the one I told you and that is a transparent contract that you can ask for from the Elektroprivreda of Serbia Tent, and I can request it on your behalf, so I can deliver it to the committee responsible. Prices, I checked as I told you 35.8.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19573	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 345th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19574	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ministers, fellow MPs and non-Citizens of Serbia, we felt that in Article 358, which speaks of the energy distributor making rules on the work of the distribution system with the consent of local self-government units, those rules should regulate in addition to those listed in Article 358, to place a score and to add: "as well as other conditions of supply and supplying heat to customers in their territory, the rights and obligations of manufacturers, distributors, suppliers and final customers of heat energy. “ Since these rules are published in local units, local self - administration units, as well as on the website, we believe that it is important that, in addition to the number of things to be listed in the rules, we believe that these things should be listed, conditions of supply and supply of heat energy, in this area of the rights and obligations of producers, distributors, suppliers and final customers of heat energy. We don't think it's an acceptable explanation for us to have this in another member of this law. We think these are important things that citizens need to know in order to know what their rights and obligations are, but also what they can expect from what they pay for when they enter into a contractual relationship with some energy distributor. So they know what their rights are, what are the obligations of that distributor, what quality, at which time, and all these other parameters that are important to citizens, and we don't see any reason why this is not found in this article, and then to be publicly published in the public ballots of local self-government and on the website of the energy distributor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19575	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19576	Comrade Djurisic, you have submitted, or your MPs have submitted an amendment to Article 361 and in that Article 361, they have provided for the same maltenes as the same, identical formulation as this formulation in Article 358. We have accepted it as an amendment to your parliamentary group in Article 361. So we've come to the conclusion that we don't need the same text to be in two members, and I'm asking that we understand each other here. I mean, we generally accepted that remark from your MP group and only we recognized it was better to be in 361.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19577	Thank you. National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Karic submitted the amendment together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19578	Thank you. Mr. Minister, this is one of the few amendments that changes the essence of the proposed member, i.e. not a substance in terms of negative but positive, because it speaks of units of local self-government which issue a license to perform energy activities and produce and distribute and supply heat. Therefore, it shall keep a register of issued licences, records, etc. By its regulation, it lays down the conditions for the supply and supply of heat to customers in its territory, the right and obligations of distributor manufacturers, suppliers and final customers of heat energy, the regulation governing the distribution of costs from a common daily place at a thermal transmission station. What we have added – both the conditions and the way in which the part of the system is maintained from the end of the distribution system to the final customer, including its heating equipment, the rights and obligations of the final customers of heat energy, especially in the event of termination of the contract, as well as the conditions for submission and resolution, requires a final buyer to suspend the supply of heat energy. I think this is very important to mention, and you might want to comment, because it was the subject of a misunderstanding by local self-government, among people who want to get out of the remote heating system. I think in a few of these we helped them clear out, in a shorter time, they could get off the remote heat, that's to shut down the remote heat or make some other change. Thank you for having an exhaustive discussion today. You have not accepted all our suggestions, which is understandable because you have your vision of solving the problem, but at least what we have put forth and the effort in several and you understand, because in some points we have coincided as this amendment 361. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19579	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 365th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19580	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs and citizens who will probably be watching this video sometime after midnight, that's the word, not the transmission because the transmission is direct, and the video is the video. Article 375 speaks of an inspector of equipment under pressure and his responsibilities, the responsibilities of inspectors and we felt that one of the responsibilities of inspectors should be to carry out inspection of energy facilities and for distribution and for the supply of heat energy. The promoter rejected our proposal with an explanation that not all heat-generating facilities do not always have to have built-in equipment under pressure, they do not have to but they can. I would accept this argument that the motioner pointed out to us at point 2) of this article, which says that under pressure, the equipment inspector is also controlling other equipment that has under pressure, which then implies these cases that some facilities for the production and distribution of heat supply have the equipment under pressure, and that therefore our amendment is not necessary, so that I cannot agree to the conclusion and if I accept that our amendment may have been excessive, because there is an attitude 2) of this Article 375, and that it might not be necessary to intervene, but we wanted to contribute to the quality of this law, as well as the other amendments, so we may have overlooked only the position 2) of this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19581	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19582	Perhaps our answer wasn't as detailed to the end, please consider that we stayed here as late as you did that evening, so we did the answers at night. When it comes to monitoring these facilities by an energy inspector, you have an article in 378 and says: heat energy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19583	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19584	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and colleagues, I would like to give some information that would benefit everyone, which is that by 2012, even this area of inspection control, and previous legal solutions have put them to go commercially, to check the courts under pressure by companies that have nothing to do with energy inspectors at all, only after the amendments and additions of the Energy Act in 2012 the professional public and many colleagues who are related to the engineering profession on the initiative and this committee, sent to the Ministry when they came, this area of control and supervision and indeed Mrs Mihajlović had understanding and brought this area back to the authority of energy inspectors and state. What you have to say is that pressure vessels and pressure equipment aren't the same, so it's not the same surveillance and type of surveillance as this part, when we're even talking about the court's equipment under pressure. Therefore, this formulation, lawyers who have done this explanation, and why they have also rejected this amendment, has just given it the opportunity to actually be able to keep the heats that have a certain part of the courts under pressure, and a certain part of the equipment that does not involve the courts themselves, gives it the opportunity to monitor and control in an adequate manner. I think the minister was right to refuse such an amendment and I think it must have been a good proposal, but it wasn't from technical conditions able to accept it. So we thank you for this solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19585	Thank you. Members of the 397th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Mr Vojislav Vujic, Zoltan Pek, Veroljub Arsic, Aleksandar Senić, Milosav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 415th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 423rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Aleksandar Senic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19586	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, this is the last of the 23rd amendments to the Energy Act that we have submitted and adopted. Eight is accepted. I am sorry that citizens have not been able to watch today's debate in direct transmission as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and how this Assembly pays at the very end of the line. In any case, they missed an opportunity to listen to one, I think, a quality discussion of a very important law that will have a significant impact on the everyday life of citizens in the future, and a law that is very important is one of the areas that is a major developmental opportunity for Serbia. I just want to repeat at the end what I said in the principle debate that I want to believe that this law will be consistently implemented, is this going to allow a significant investment in the energy sector in the Republic of Serbia, which I think is Serbia's main development opportunity at the moment, that all the authorities of the Serbian state will quickly start working in line with the proposed solutions under this law. We will support this law, but in order to achieve full effects, to see in everyday life it is important that this law is brought to life, that the government and other entities fully implement it and that we hope to meet all those obligations that we have accepted by signing international agreements that will not be easy to accept and fulfil our obligations unless we are working from day one with this force and meeting these obligations can lead to problems in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19587	Thank you. You didn't exactly talk about the amendment, but as a conclusion, the debate can be brought to an end. I hope the citizens will be pleased to watch in the delayed transfer of your discussion, as they have been interested in your discussions so often, I thank you for your work. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank the minister and his associates for participating in the debate over this law and for adopting numerous amendments, especially MPs from the opposition. It's a pleasure. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning and Construction. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Marijan Risticevic, Balša Bozovic, Dr Blaže Bradić and Slobodan Homen. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the draft law amending the Law on Planning and Construction in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19588	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, good evening and citizens of Serbia, since I assume they are looking at us around midnight, if anyone is looking at us at all, by amendment to Article 1, my colleague, Mr Balša Bozovic, has proposed to amend this member, by erasing attitudes 1 and 2, and by proposing these amendments and supplementing the law, has deleted the part that restricts the greatest contribution to land regulation. We believe this is unacceptable, because the proposed change in the bill will essentially do nothing to speed up investment. Also, a colleague of Bozovic suggested that the 2nd item be deleted from this Article 1. The draft law, since this position of the 2nd member is proposed to be in Article 97. The law, paragraph 4, deletes, and this represents the abolition of the right of local self-government to make any decision on the amount of land planning compensation, which is traditionally the original income of local self-government. This represents complete centralised and we do not believe that this law, namely the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction, can abolish the right of local self-government and determine the amount of compensation for the construction land. Simply, whoever has a better policy will attract investors, who doesn't have those investors won't be able to attract them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19589	The word is Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19590	Thank you. I sincerely hoped that my young colleague would withdraw this amendment, as in principle I explained that the bill does not deprive local self-government of income, more specifically to collect income. That stays. They're being denied the possibility of defining a different species, and here I repeat it to you, so I can't do anything from the framework of this law. I can't make some kind of decision that in a certain part of their territory maybe someone doesn't pay any income at all. Local self-government will certainly continue to collect these revenues. I don't know what part of it you found it in, what are you explaining? Also, as far as centralization itself is concerned, I don't know if you're now giving up what Dragan Gilas did two years ago? He made the municipalities of Belgrade a local community, so I don't know what kind of centralization you're talking about right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19591	Thank you. The word is Janko Veselinović, you have 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19592	On the Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee, I have said and I repeat again that this provision is anti-constitutional and contrary to the legal system, because certain groups of investors are placed in a privileged position compared to other investor groups, and I do not know why they are the owners of the storage space and not some other commercial activity?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19593	Thank you. The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19594	I would like to thank the President. Of course I will agree with the fact that the amendment does not make any sense, given that it is absolutely true that local self-governments are not being denied for some of the original incomes they had, but it is asking a fundamental question, how to attract investors unless it is possible to make these changes and additions to the law, what is most significant to investors, which is to be released from that ballast, that burden that the local self-governments have completely autonomously, completely discreetly formed through their decisions, through their criteria where investors literally refused. I cited my city as an example of such a very bad situation, because my city still today did, investors were going around. Today we are making an effort, not only for Užice, not only for the Zlatibor County, not only for Ivanjica, not only for Cačak, but for the Moravian district, we are doing for all of Serbia, and our state, units of local self-government in the Republic of Serbia deserve investors to enter with healthy investments, to raise production plants, to employ those currently unemployed, and thus the economic environment instead of the economic cemetery that has been created for decades is transformed into something that implies a solid base of economic development with a large number of employees. That is the essence of these changes and additions and that is the essence and purpose of what the promoter has otherwise done, motivated by these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19595	The word is Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19596	Thank you, President. I would like to point out once again that this decision and the proposal for this amendment and the addition of the law are discriminatory, since if anyone wants to build a factory, if someone wants to build a warehouse or for underground floors, garages in buildings, that someone will not pay public services, and if some ordinary citizen wants to build a building, he will have to pay compensation for that and services.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19597	Thank you. The MP Dr Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19598	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues, we have discussed the same government proposal twice within 15 days. I don't know what happened in these 15 days, so something that was the subject of the conversation 15 days ago, we're discussing again, that those who build factories, i.e. who have business space, who have warehouses, do underground garages, don't pay for municipal equipment, okay, that's your political decision, that's your vision, that's what I asked back then, and I'm asking you to give it a chance for those who want to build economic facilities, and that's stables, farms. All the time we've been talking here in the Assembly about how we want Serbia to move forward and one of the basic engines, we all agree, is the development of agriculture, and this law we want to free investors who are going to make production halls, warehouses, free investors who do multi-story work in building underground garages, and I would understand that, dear colleagues, that they will give it to free tenants who buy apartments in those buildings, but they'll probably have a price, but let the citizens judge it. I urge and insist that you accept my proposal to include economic facilities in non-payment facilities for the construction land. I think we'll do a good thing, give our farmers a chance to build stables, farms, stables and all that they need to develop agricultural production without these payments. Also, in these few seconds left, I urge you to accept the second part of the amendment that says that the minimum exemption in cash payment is 45%, is not some whim. You know that Belgrade, for example, as the capital, Nis as one great city has a 45-50% release...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19599	Time, thank you. (Blagoje Bradić, from the city: just to finish the sentence. Finish it, I thought you were reacting on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19600	If they had that release, there weren't any effects and we don't need to make worse conditions, we need to improve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19601	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I think it is very important and very good that our discussions on the different draft laws in this year end with a debate on amendments to a draft law which was sent to the Assembly procedure by the Members of Parliament. I think it's also very good in a symbolic sense because it shows us a great opportunity, gentlemen, to look ourselves in the eye here, to face our own actions in this National Assembly, in this calendar year. This is what I think about the amendment to Article 1 which Mr. Bradic has sent here, respected gentlemen, and the debate on this bill. The adoption of the bill on amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, gentlemen, will be a picture and opportunity for this assembly's majority and actions, gentlemen, to a very bad government. Here, I will try to illustrate it precisely on the case of amendments to Article 1 submitted by Mr Blagoje Bradic. Mr Bradic explained here that we discussed amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, gentlemen, 20 days ago. Those amendments to this same law were passed on December 8th, gentlemen. At that time, Zoran Zivkovic, the MP and I, Vladimir Pavicevic, told you that you should not do this, gentlemen, especially for a member of the 97th Law, who is now here again, respected gentlemen, to be changed. What's going on now? Article 97 is amended as follows: Dear President, I expect your support here now in the discussion, perhaps you should also use two minutes, five minutes or more, Mrs Gojkovic. Watch your reason, gentlemen. He says that when the amendments were adopted, and that's from 20 days ago, this member of the law was undercut by a mistake. So how's the mistake, gentlemen? How many times have I stood up here in the principle debate, in the debate on amendments to say that such a mistake must not happen to a legislative body when adopting the law's proposal in our assembly. Look, it wasn't a mistake, gentlemen, it was you, and I said it in principle, that adopted a rag of law, which is today confirmed. Dear President, once again to remind the MPs of what this word means, what it says in the Serbian dictionary, in the issue of the Mother of Serbia from Novi Sad, dear gentlemen. Here, it says, the rag of the law. The healing - what has been done, composed of bad, ignorant, inconsistencies, in any case, what is concluded, tempered, respected gentlemen. Be careful in what way, respected presidents of the National Assembly, we end our discussions in this calendar year in our National Assembly – by adopting a law that we can call, based on the meaning of the term cloth from the dictionary, a rag from the law. Is this supposed to be a picture and an opportunity to act as, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, we have repeated it here many times, the central political institutions in our constitutional system, and we like to say, because it is true, respected gentlemen, the sanctum of our political life? A law like this to be a picture and opportunity of our work in this calendar year? Dear gentlemen, I think that we should imagine ourselves well, if this is an assessment of our work here, to imagine ourselves this way in the conversation of each other, and especially, honourable presidents, in relation to the citizens who, I agree, are closely following this debate, following this work and who, since this is my last regular announcement, in this year here in the Assembly, I wish, dear presidents, a happy New Year 2015, with one hope, that in the following year, 2015, we will mention bad power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19603	Thank you, MP. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19604	How about five minutes or how long you don't say anything, just cheer. In order for someone to replace the government, it must first be profiled through the elections. Someone who, like a rag with a bad former power, came into this parliament and had us as such a rag, and there is something, I don't want, if only one letter were replaced, but it would be a lot, but I think that's how the citizens of Serbia experience this tick, to give us a lecture on ticks, first it would have to interpret and explain the terms of "suffer", because under such authority as he supported, which, in one part of Serbia now, only the citizens of Serbia survived is patience, but could explain one more word, and that is the patience and what the patience means, and how while you and such were holding out, Serbian citizens were increasingly suffering. In the time when they led Serbia because of this same patience and patience, unfortunately, Serbian citizens often had a rag on their clothes, so that cloth and law are better than rags from the party, and even worse and worse are both the patience and the need for political parties of the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19605	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I have in my system a registered Mr. Nedjo Jovanovic, Dr. Vladimir Orlic, Mr. Pavicevic. I just want to check on what grounds. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Jovanovic, on what basis are you answering? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: By amendment. You have to wait then. Mr. Orlic also appears after the amendment. The word is Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19606	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, instead of one kind of authorflexia, self-examination, which I have recommended here to all of us, not only to the Members of the SNS but also to myself as one national MP who works in the National Assembly, in which 250 freely elected representatives sits, instead of applying that approach, Mr. Babic was talking about ticks, patiences and patiences, I suppose, Mr. Becic, showing certain poetic tendencies here, because he believes that expression in Rome is something he uses, or perhaps he thinks he is leading the common good. I don't think such poetic play or attempt to play poetically will solve the problem we have, and, gentlemen, I have tried very precisely here to define what the problem is in the case of a bill that we're changing just 20 days after we've amended that Law on Planning and Construction, gentlemen. I must once again, the Honorable Chairman of Vienna, invite all the MPs to imagine one important principle in our joint action in this people's assembly, which is the principle of ethics, responsibilities, respected gentlemen. This principle says - we must measure the results in politics, including the results of our work in this National Assembly. According to the law we last adopt this year, we've been doing very badly, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19607	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Those words I don't want to say again I heard from you first. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19608	By respecting the principles of political ethics and responsibilities, I can ask the previous speaker on the basis of which results made him a rag in the previous and former regime, what did this former regime do to Serbia's citizens in a quality and good way so that, respecting that political integrity, ethics and morality, he would become a tick with such a parliamentary list, with such a policy, which is the result, not in a year, two or three, but in 12 and 14 years, respectively? It's not poetic to live a life of patience, but since it's what the previous speaker wanted to caricate and trivialize, patience suffers. Serbian citizens suffer, suffer because of the former irresponsible government that left them without a job. They suffer because of the patience of holding, stealing, embezzling, kidnapped, what were the robbery privatisations of those that you helped cross the census and come along with you into this parliament. There is nothing poetic about it, there is nothing in the cloth, there is nothing in the patience, there is nothing in the patience, because that is the life that most Serbian citizens live in. What we are fighting for and what I think should be a common denominator for all of our politicians, not to play, not to compete, but to work together towards one goal, which is a decent, normal Serbia, Serbia in which it will be proud and live and work, in which we will give birth to children and give them a chance for a decent and normal future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19609	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19610	Thank you. I will not manage any of the etemological, grammatical, poetic observations of this amendment, but I must say the essence and which is why the amendment is supported, and without a reservation, colleague Katarina, as well as the other signatories of this amendment. First of all, because the prejudices that are being imposed here should be broken among the citizens. The first prejudice is that this amendment is contrary to the Constitution, absolutely incorrect, absolutely incorrect, that the principle of non-discrimination has been violated. Whoever reads the article that is proposed in the text of the amendments and additions will unequivocally conclude that it is a public property facility, a wide, very wide body of objects. Who here is being discriminated against? In what way can anyone be led under any kind of inferiority, subjugation, or any kind of damage. Secondly, what's very important to point out is that the story here is that these facilities need to be classified objects within agriculture, agricultural facilities. Then we would come out of this framework of the bill, then we wouldn't be able to talk about the law itself, then we're actually doing something that's the opposite of the Rules of Procedure and everything else. We focused on what was defined by the proposed member and only within that we can comment. Another prejudice, and that is the last prejudice imposed here, and because of the citizens, we have to remove it, is the fact that the units of local self-government are damaged. The question is, how are they damaged, how? Is it more useful if it comes to Belgrade, Vrnjačka Banja, Užice, Cačak, Valjevo, a large number of investors who will buy land, which will rent land and from these legal transactions will make the amount of money available to the budget? Is that a shame? When I spoke in the principle debate on these amendments and amendments to the law, I told the truth - the question is that units of local self-government will experience these changes, but that is why we are here to explain that we have not proposed and that we are not adopting these changes in order to cause adverse consequences to cities and municipalities, but we are here as legislators to allow investment to enter cities and municipalities, to contribute to the economic recovery and to the investment of employees to return to where they should be, and these are in their jobs, and not on the streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19611	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19612	Thank you. I'm going to be very brief on the amendment itself, specifically this amendment, which we should be discussing right now. So, we've already discussed this topic of how respected colleagues reminded, not so long ago and specifically about the percentage for the reduction, we talked about it then. Since we have not received any other solution and no new argument on what is proposed by this amendment, I will repeat the attitude I have expressed and then on the same issue. At least 30% does not mean that these percentages can't be 45 when we're talking about a reduction, and it doesn't mean that those decisions that were in place in the meantime, which include either 45 or 50 or something or as much as a percentage. At least 30 is wider and wider than the one mentioned. Thus, nothing is questionable, and on the other hand, space is left that if there is an economic calculation and enough interest and with a lower reduction and with a lower discharge, the investor is once again attracted. In that sense, I certainly support the original text as drawn up by the legislator of this law and therefore would not propose this amendment, although I recall that we have already pointed out that if there were more ideas worth paying attention to, it would not be bad for them to be proposed through separate amendments, so that not because one of them is controversial, we would be forced to reject the entire amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19613	Thank you. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. ) Mr Bradic, and the Rules of Procedure tell you that it is not enough that you are the amendment promoter, that you are automatically entitled to replication. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Changes of THE MATIC KNIGAMA LAW You have received amendments submitted by MPs Veroljub Matić, Boban Birmančević, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović and Slobodan Homen. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Veroljub Matic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Slobodan Homen and the MPs Marko Djurisic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19614	Dear Chairman, since we are now, as you say, in the broadcast and it's already past midnight, can you tell us what the results of these elections are in Mionica and Luciani? You can't? Okay. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19615	You weren't talking about the amendment. You were talking about some jumps.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19616	We suggested that Article 2 be deleted. Why? Because this law is a real picture and opportunity of this so-called. The reform government. This law, which has been laid down by the current law for five years to be completed, has not been able to complete and requires an additional two years for this government which has been in office for the third year. We don't think it should be given to the government, especially because we haven't heard one single argument from the government, Minister, why it's been asking for two more years. Why hasn't this job been done in the past five years? What was the problem? Who's responsible for that? Of course, the only good thing about this law was that the law would come into force on the eighth day, so you changed it by amendment. So an emergency procedure, immediately, immediate entry into force and delaying reforms. It is the image and opportunity of this government, its results, and who is the patient and why the people suffer, we will discuss when the DRI report comes that eight billion dinars in 2013 were spent in the opinion of the DRI against the laws of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19617	Ambassador, about the books of origin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19618	We've talked a lot about the previous Energy Act, the supplies and the rest...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19619	Article 2 is deleted, in Article 91(1), the word ‘five’ is replaced by the word ‘seven’. Marko Djurisic throws out of place. I don't understand you, MP, you haven't talked about the amendment. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. ) The word has Minister Antic, please. (Marco Djurisic, from place: He is not authorized by this point. Ambassador, it is. Okay. Come back for the day after tomorrow. Find the papers you must have thrown away, because they don't matter to you and you'll see that they're all authorized... (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: I'm just reading what it says.) () Ambassador, there are more MPs in this House, you are not alone, although it seems to you. Please, Minister, try to fight for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19620	Since there is no dilemma when it comes to a united debate, I, as a member of the government and a minister in the government, can say a word on this subject. What I want to point out is that the government did what it did to her part of the job, related to the automation of her mother's books. The only reason for the extension of this deadline is the fact that local self-government did not provide all necessary data within the prescribed time limit. Since these data are not only updated at the headquarters of local self-government units, but in more than a thousand places, there has been some delay. That's an objective reason. I don't see the reason for the amount of food and misunderstanding, a team that, in this period of five years, was a shared responsibility for all of this. This is something that requires an additional understanding, whether by the government or by the opposition. Because, I repeat, we've all been part of this conglomerate of government, from local self-government to the Republic for the past five years, and we all know what our condition is in local self-government and with documentation. I believe that this way that Mr. Djurisic makes his argument to the state of the moment rather than the state of one general assessment that anyone, especially and individually, is responsible for this objective request to extend the deadline by two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19621	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19622	The Serbian Progressive Party is against this amendment, for reasons that are... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. The minister mentioned me by name and last name. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19623	Ambassador, I deeply apologize to you on behalf of Mark Djurisic, who find that difficult to say. I really don't understand this throw anymore. This Parliament has not experienced. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I apologize too.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19624	I'll take it. You know, it took five years to apply this law in the basic sense. It is prescribed for Article 91. The Serbian Progressive Party is partying, leading this government, participating strongly and supporting the past, I can accept that it is three years. The two years for which we are looking for an extension of validity, i.e. from five to seven, are the first two years that were lost by just the ones who formed the government and supported the government, which is the amendment's proposal. We lost those two years that were lost at the beginning of the application of this law. Just those two years, Mr. Djurisic, who were lost in the time of your government, we need that time in another two years. Real time needed for SNS is what is prescribed by law – five years. We've been in the government for three years, we need two more to finish this job, because you didn't do your job right, because you didn't start it right. Back then, your head was in clouds, pink glasses, in messages that we got out of a crisis but that Serbian citizens wouldn't even know what you bombed us until 2012. You weren't doing your job. Therefore, it takes five years to apply, three years passed as SNS is in one or another government and we need these two more years to bring this job to an end. But it is the responsibility of the amendment, but not of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19625	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19626	We heard the proposer's argument, we saw a solid text – it's wiped out, what goes where? Nowhere. It's a text that leads nowhere. What after that? Is this job supposed to be done or not, which provides for changes and additions to the law, who cares? It's important to get up, explain in two minutes, say anything. There's no argument. Here, we have now heard an explanation from our MP, Mr Babic, that for the first two years of the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, we have been telling the government of Boris Tadic, who has been saying for a long time that he was wrong, so he was probably wrong when he was doing this proposal, or when he failed to implement this bill, which is the law that he had to be and in those two years he had to act. We heard from the minister that the government has done all its work, related to this law, so it's not clear why the government is being criticised at all? We see that the problem was also in the local self-government, where it is certainly in a small amount, and in the future and at all the party of the man who sinned will not participate, because there is no list, in the elections, wherever they ask questions in Serbia, so it is impossible to participate in the local government if there are no candidates, but it is important that we listen here to the remarks on all this. It's simply to say that those who make mistakes in politics have to pay the price and have to get used to paying the price. One more thing is very important and that should be said in the debate. This is not the third year of this government, this is not even the first year of this government, the Prime Minister of Mr. Vukic, the previous government was another government, this government corrects all mistakes from these earlier periods and is seriously reforming the country and leading Serbia to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19627	Replica, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19628	Thank you, Your Honor. I, if there were some order here and everyone treated equally, should get three replicas. But I'll probably get two minutes, so I'll try to use them in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19629	That's what the Rules of Procedure is like.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19630	I've been answering every time, and you've just given me the right to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19631	I can't give you a replica 60 times.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19632	We've heard different stories about who's guilty. One story by an unauthorized government official that they blame local self-government for unfinished work, and another by MPs who support the government, that the previous government is guilty, some from the past. Now I don't know what story I'm supposed to believe? But if I believe this first story, that local self-government is responsible, she came out of the mouth of a minister who, however, is not authorized by this point to speak...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19633	The minister is authorized. You're cheating on the public again. I have to intervene because of Parliament's dignity. You've been cheating on the public all day. It's a flagrant violation of Parliament's dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19634	I only have the hope that a billion dinars, as the government of the Republic of Serbia now shared with local self-governments and your pulens in Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Pazar, Novi Sad, Leskovac, Jagodina, Kruševec, Sutotica and Koserić, will be used, among other things, to complete this business. I feel sorry for those citizens in other local self-governments who couldn't get such generous help from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, those citizens who obviously don't have enough local government representatives, so they will live hard in debt, and the best representatives of this government in Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad, Leskovac... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19635	Thank you. Thank you so much for the replica. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Matic and Boban Birmancevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we've completed the search on all amendments... What do you say? No, I don't have any other amendments, Minister, except for these. Here's the service they're tracking. Did we skip any amendments? No, I don't. No, Minister. There are representatives of the monitoring service, as you know and warn the opposition's MPs often to react and warn the president that he is right. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Veroljub Maric and Boban Birmancevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. I read it again. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're going to the next item on the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Slobodan Homen, Marko Djurisic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. You have received a report from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular on one amendment. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and MP Slobodan Homen. The proposing representative and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19636	You swallowed my name in the presentation, just to make sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19637	I didn't swallow your name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19638	So, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister, this is about an amendment that we intervene on the deadline for the entry into force of the law. Namely, like all other laws and this law has entered into the emergency procedure, and this law takes effect immediately the next day after the adoption and here we see all the transparency and absence of the public in the work of the National Assembly. True, we have news today, so we can't even watch the debate. Citizens can't watch live, they can watch a delayed transmission. Now it's probably past midnight, and it's only really 5:00, just so the citizens know. What is very important is that in this way citizens cannot have insight into even when the law enters the procedure so that they can react, nor can MPs. Nor can they react to come to him to be available to them because it comes into effect immediately tomorrow. In the end, I'd like to ask the president first, because right now I need to get back to Novi Sad to stop snowfall after you stopped the television broadcast today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19639	It's been suspended, now I've been informed. Seriously, there's no rainfall. The roads to Novi Sad have been cleared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19640	If you don't mind, you're going ahead of me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19641	I can't. I have to work in the morning. I have to be in Parliament and work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19642	In the end, since this is my first address, I wish you both the presidents and the MPs and...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19643	Happy New Year, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19644	... and Serbian citizens, not only happy New Year's, but Christmas and Christmas holidays.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-28-0.u19645	Thank you. I'm really informing you that the road is walk-by. I know it's reliable, until New Now for sure. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Monday 29 December 2014 starting at 10.00pm, as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the 12th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014.
