ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7750	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 144 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Miljana Nikolic, Miroslav Markicevic, Milena Corilić and Konstantin Arsenovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in addition to the representative of the motions of Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, I have also called for the meetings of Professor Dragan Jovanovic, special adviser to the Minister of Health, and Natasa Gudović, Miomir Antonijević and Svetlana Zekovic, senior advisers at the Ministry of Health. We continue to work and move on to a principled search on the 4th item of the agenda - PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE SPECIFIC PROTECTION LAW. You've received a bill from the government. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principled search on the draft law. Does the representative of the Proposer Dr Zlatibor Loncar, Minister of Health, want a word? Yeah. Please, just sign in. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7751	Good afternoon, everyone. First I want to tell you briefly what the simplest thing is about this law, and then I'm going to read the argument. I think you're all witnessing that we have one problem in health care, and that's that every day there are problems about being in health care institutions and in the entire health system of the Republic of Serbia, and it's about whether we currently have insufficient staff. The other thing that's worrying, which is that the bar that we have, which applies to specialists and subspecies, is the age of about 50 or over 50 years. To solve that, we've actually seen the problems that still exist. We've decided on a proposal from this law. Of course, it's something you see with your naked eye, which you feel every day. We have another thing, and these are the facts that we have received from the Institute of Public Health "Batut" where all that is supported, and I will explain it to you, i.e. I will read our official numbers and information that currently exists. The essence of this law is to solve this problem in at least five to ten years, and in the next few years to go the same, there is a big problem. The suggestions are as follows: to abolish two years of compulsory training when you graduate from college, when you have that basic internship when you pass a state exam that you have to be a clinical physician for another two years to apply for specialization, to cancel it, to be able to specialize immediately after a state exam. The next thing you know, the condition is that you have to be in a permanent working relationship to compete, so you can get a specialization. Because of the situation and the data that I have said, and the additional information that I am going to bring out, we think that we need to give both volunteer specializations and specializations to those who are employed for a certain time, because you yourself know what our situation is and in the budget and what the state of employment is, and this is the only way to solve this problem. Special volunteer specializations and specializations would apply to deficiting professions, and you'll see who they are. This is what we are missing today, and what threatens us to be a problem in the coming period because of this age limit, or the average years that our specialists have. That would be the point, and now I'm going to give you an explanation for all of this on the items. As regards the constitutional basis, the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law amending the Health Protection Act is contained in Article 97 of Article 10. The RS constitution, which is prescribed to regulate and provide a health care system. Reasons for the adoption of this law: working on the preparation of strategic and legislative frameworks to achieve the objectives of health policy, starting with sectoral strategies, programme activities to improve the health system and reform processes by health care levels identify priority areas and provide guidance for health services, and all in order to achieve available healthcare. In line with these objectives and activities, one of the most important resources which is the basis for the development of the health care system and which needs to be developed are human resources in the health system, i.e. they represent the basic definition of the health care system in all areas – promotion, prevention and treatment. At the same time, human resources are the largest and most valuable resources of the health system to be constantly developed. The development of human resources in the health system is also determined on the basis of the capacities identified by the plan of the networks of health institutions, based on the age structure of health employees, migration flows, the size of the gravitational area, the exploitation of existing capacities, the average planned length of hospital treatment, the average number of treated patients compared to one doctor, as well as the needs of the population for health services based on demographic, epidemiological projections and new health technologies. Long-term planning and investment in human resources in addition to the generation of knowledge, investment in infrastructure and technology is necessary to achieve an adequate response to variable health needs and different service modes. The reason for the adoption of this law is also the fact that after an analysis of the human resources in health institutions has been carried out, based on data from the Institute of Public Health of Serbia "Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut", the Republic Institute of Statistics, Health Institute and other forms of healthcare and the Regulation on specializations and narrow specializations, seen, the growing age structure of employees. Also, the deficit branches of medicine specialisation are ranked on the basis of a derogation from the existing number of medical doctors, specialists in health institutions in the Republic, compared to the normative specialist staff calculated in accordance with applicable sublaws. All of the above points to the need to enable healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals to refer to specialisation, following the completion of the traineeship and the professional examination, so that in the coming years the healthcare system has a professional, specialist place to provide quality and accessible healthcare to patients in the Republic of Serbia. In view of the above, it is proposed to amend the Health Protection Act in a member relating to the length of the performance of health care activities, to a professional examination for healthcare professionals, health associates with higher education, and to refer to professional training and specialisation and narrow specialisation, i.e. the suspension of the conditions of two years of performing health work before referring to specialisation. Explanation of basic legal institutes and individual solutions. Article 1 provides that a health care professional and health associate with higher education can be trained, specialised, provided that he has completed his traineeship and passed a professional exam, and that he can be perfected in close speciality after completed specialization. A health care professional with higher education can be perfected in close speciality on condition that he performs health care tasks in accordance with this law as a specialist in certain branches of medicine, dentistry, or pharmacies. Except for the position of the 1st member in the area of the deficit branches of medicine, dentistry or pharmacies, the ministry may, for the unemployed health care professional with higher education, who completed the traineeship and passed the professional exam, approve the specialisation as well as the narrow specialisation according to the specialised examination. The ministry for each calendar year, no later than 31 December of the current year, makes a decision in the field of medicine, dentistry, or pharmacies, which are deficited in the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the opinion of the public health services established in the territory of the Republic in accordance with the law. In addition to that change, it is possible for healthcare institutions, i.e. private practice, to grant healthcare professionals, i.e. healthcare associates a specialization, i.e. a narrow specialisation without restrictions, which refers to the length of the health performance before the date of adoption of the specialisation requirements, i.e. a rope specialisation. Article 2 states that this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The means of law enforcement, for the implementation of this law, do not need to provide additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget, in relation to the funds already provided for in the work and performance of healthcare activities in health institutions under the health care system plan. Impact analysis. Certain problems the law needs to solve. The Law amending the Health Protection Act allows for a greater number of healthcare professionals and health associates to be referred to specialisation and narrow specialisation, and therefore faster renewal of expert staff. It points out the need for healthcare professionals to be able to refer to the specialisation after completing the traineeship and passed a professional examination, so that the healthcare system will have a professional specialist staff to provide quality and health care to patients in the Republic of Serbia in the coming years. Conditions have been created, but as an exception to the deficit areas of medicine, dentistry and pharmacies, the ministry can be an unemployed health care worker with higher education who completed a traineeship and passed a professional exam, to approve specialisation, as well as a narrow specialization according to a passed specialist exam. The Minister for each calendar year, no later than 31 December of the current year, makes a decision in the field of medicine, dentistry, or pharmacies that are deficited in the Republic of Serbia, based on the opinion of the Public Health Institute, on the territory of the Republic in accordance with the law. The objectives achieved by passing the law are to achieve the following objective – an increase in the number of professional staff, specialists, narrow specialists, under 55 years of age in health institutions from the network plan, thus improving the age structure of employees, revoking the deficitary branches of medicine, dentistries and pharmacies, i.e. providing quality and available health care. Another possibility to solve the problem, and given the fact that the adoption of the Health Protection Act, that it had been eight years and that there was a need for a different system solution compared to the basic law, there was no possibility that the problems that are being solved by this law would be resolved in a different way than the adoption of the Law amending the law. Why is the adoption of this law the best solution? The amendment of the law is subject to legislation where this area can therefore only be regulated in this way. Who will be affected by the proposed solutions? Decisions on the proposed law, amending the Health Protection Act, relate to healthcare professionals, healthcare associates, health institutions and other forms of health care in accordance with the law. The community in general through the promotion and organisation of health services, in relation to improving the quality of health care carried out in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, on patients, and according to the Institute of Public Health "Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut", the presentation of the current situation in this area is the following – general human resource data. In the Republic of Serbia on 31 December 2013, there were 113,068 workers employed indefinitely in health institutions in the plan of a network of health institutions in the Republic of Serbia. In working relation to a certain time, 6,934 were employed, 6% of the total number. In view of the fact that in health institutions, municipalities with predominantly Serb population in the territory of AP KIM 6,286 are employed, and this suggests that there were 126,288 employees in health institutions in the network plan in 2013. The number of non-determined medical doctors was 21,607 and 3,832 without specialization, and 2,480 for specialization and 15,295 specialists, and for certain working hours 987, 888 for no specialization, and four for specialization and 95 specialists. The number of 307 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants was recorded in 2013. Compared to the average value of this indicator for EU countries, the security of doctors in the Republic of Serbia is significantly lower. In 2013, the average value of EU countries from 2004 was reached in the Republic of Serbia. In our country, there is a huge difference in the territorial security of the population of doctors, so that only 209 doctors on the 100,000 inhabitants have the Sremski District, while 424 doctors on 100,000 residents are registered in Nisavska County. The safety of the population of selected doctors in primary health care in the Republic of Serbia, general medicine, health care services in the departure of the population is the primary health care institution of the population over the age of 19. The health care of the adult population in the Republic of Serbia, provides a total of 3,928 doctors to this service, and out of this number 50% are doctors in general medicine, and 6% are doctors in specialization, 44% are specialists in general medicine. The number of adults over the age of 19 per doctor, the general medical service is 1.468. The total number of visits to doctors in the office during the previous year is 25,294 patients. The average number of visits per doctor in general medicine is 6.439. The Department of Health Care of Women, therefore, provides specific health care to a female population over the age of 15. The medical services in this service are provided by 575 doctors, and of this number 511 and 89% are specialists. A specialist doctor, in gynaecology, in women’s health care services, has an average of 6,246 women over 15 years of age. The average number of visits per doctor in the health care service office is 2.539. The Child Health Services, it provides primary protection for children from zero to six years of age. The medical service in this service is provided by 764 doctors, of which 84% are specialists. The average number of preschool children of one doctor in the health care service is 732. The total number of services provided in the doctor’s offices is 3,588. The average number of visits per doctor in the health care service is 4.698. The Department for the Health Care of School Children, the Department for the Health Protection of School Children and Youth provides primary health care to children and young people from 7 to 19 years of age. The medical services in this institution are provided by 732 doctors. Of that, 63% of the doctors are specialists. The average number of school children and youth per doctor is 1.319. Specialist staff in the total number of doctors employed indefinitely are 70.8% of specialists, while 11.4 doctors are perfected from some of the fields of specialization. Doctors of medicine can specialize in 46 specialist branches in the field of health care. The number of types of narrow specialist branches or healthcare areas is 43. In the Republic of Serbia, the average age of doctors of medicine employed indefinitely, with completed or started specialisation or subspecies is 48.5 years, and those of indefinite time who completed specialisation or subspecies is 50.4 years of age. In certain deficits of medicine, the average age of doctors was 47.5 years. In the deficiting branches of medicine, the lack of staff is particularly pronounced because it belongs to those where health services are provided due to the increased demands and needs of the population such as cardiosurgery, vascular surgery or palitative care where a high requirement is present to provide cadation as soon as possible. In the Republic of Serbia, ageing population is expressed, making the population over 65 years of age 17.40% of the entire population of the Republic. Non-infectious diseases, heart and blood vessels diseases, malignant tumors, diabetes, obstructive lung diseases, injuries and others, this is important, please, for decades dominate our national pathology. However, non-infectious diseases in our midst are the leading cause of sickness, disability, and premature death 65 years ago. Note this: About 100,000 people die annually in the Republic of Serbia from all causes of death. Almost every other resident of the Republic of Serbia dies of heart disease and blood vessels. Every fifth of malignant tumors, every tenth of the result of injury, diabetes and obstructive lung disease. Over the past 20 years, the largest increase in dying in the Republic of Serbia has been recorded by malignant tumours and complications caused by diabetes. A special group of specializations consist of those specializations which, with the presence of territorial differences, record good security according to the standards prescribed by the regulation on the near conditions for performing health work in health institutions and other forms of health care and in which the age structure is unfavourable, such as pediatricia, where older than 55 years of age, means older pediatricians of 55 years of age are 28%. The participation of specialists over 55 years of age in the total number of specialists is 18.2%, for anesthesiology and reanimatology 16.8%, for gynecology is about 16.9%, for internal medicine 15.4% for radiology. The development of medical sciences and new technologies of the health system, which are part of it, must meet the growing needs of the population and impose the need for timely training of doctors. Just an example of the implementation of the national organized early cancer screening at the most common localisations in breast women, the cervix of the uterus and both half of the colon requires a greater number of excellent radiologists without whom it is impossible to read mammographic scans, both gynecologists and pathologists, cytoskriners who read plates with tissue wipes of the cervix, as well as internalists, gastroenterologists and not only diagnostics, but intervention gastroenterologists who can prevent the development of malignant processes on the colon at the earliest stage of surgical intervention. Organized screening is a permanent character activity, and aims to cover 100% of the population over the next five years, which is not possible in these conditions, because the appropriate fit is missing. The contents of the work of the pediatrician, therefore and the scope of the pediatrician activities, are expanding, in the National Plan for Action for Children, adopted in 2004. National Millennium Development Goals in the Republic of Serbia brought in 2007 and the National Youth Strategy for Development in May 2008, the protection of children from violence is set out as one of the specific and priority objectives, the General Protocol on the Protection of Children against Abuse and Reference Frameworks in the Procedure and Approach to the Problem of Child Abuse and Non-Ignorance, providing for every individual and all institutions in the country. A special protocol of the health care system for the protection of children against child abuse and neglect was adopted in April 2009 and defined the role and tasks of all healthcare institutions and healthcare professionals and associates. Pediatricians within primary health care are members of child protection teams against child abuse and neglect, also work at the small children's development counselling centre, youth counselling for up to 18 years, and together with psychiatrists and psychologists and other health associates participate in the work of the mental health centre in the framework of the home of health. The waiting lists are one of the most significant indicators of the quality of work of health institutions. Quality indicators of keeping waiting lists are monitored in general hospitals, clinics, institutes, clinics and clinical centres. One of the quality indicators is the average length of waiting for a specific intervention, patient procedure on the waiting list. In 2012, the longest wait was for orthopaedic surgery, i.e. arto plastics, hips and knees for 291.4 days on average, as well as for cataract extraction and artificial lens installation for which 259,8 days were expected on average. The shortest wait is for invasive cardiology procedures, 30.8 days. If, only in the case of a waiting list for invasive cardiology procedures in hospitals providing that service, which at the end of December of the previous year had a total of 2,906 patients, have in the course of the year the number of new patients placed on the waiting list was 16.897 and that intervention was expected at clinical and hospital centres for 15.8 days, at clinical centres 96.7 days, it is clear that the security of a number of professionals in clinical centres can reduce the waiting for intervention at clinical hospital centres, increase the scope of work to maintain the existing length of waiting. Also, according to reports provided by patients' rights protectors and health institutions for 2013, 3,327 complaints were filed, 912 of which concerns the right to respect the patient's time, the time to wait for a health care service, the appointment of a health checklist. The above draft law compares the quality of health care through professional training and health care workers' status, and also contributes to respect for patients' rights. The costs that law enforcement will entail for citizens and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, the proposed solutions in this law will not create additional costs for patients, i.e. citizens, as well as businesses, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises. It is not necessary to provide additional resources in relation to the resources already provided for in the work and performance of healthcare activities in health institutions from the plan of a network of health institutions, taking into account that health institutions are bringing health institutions in accordance with their needs and resources for each calendar year and plan for professional training of their employees. Do the positive effects justify this? There will be a more efficient and rational use of health system resources, as well as raising health care quality and improving the health system of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, positive effects will be achieved, both for citizens, patients and healthcare professionals, healthcare institutions, private practice or other legal persons performing health care in relation to the health care system in the Republic of Serbia. Does the act stimulate the emergence of new operators on the market and market competition? This bill creates opportunities to improve the work of health institutions and private practices as well as other legal persons performing health care activities, particularly through the provision of highly specialised staff in providing health services. The health system through the development of medical sciences and new technologies must meet the growing needs of the population, and thus imposes the need for timely training of doctors. In view of the public sector employment policy and the Budgetary System Act, which affects the security of adequate medical staff and providing public health protection throughout the territory of the Republic, it is necessary to enable young healthcare professionals, who are already employed in the healthcare system, previously referring to specialisation, or narrow specialisation, existing staff planning, as it is segmented and directed only to the state sector, and not to the projection of personnel in the private sector, since such planning does not have a foothold, but through an increase in specialised and closely specialised healthcare staff, a number of health professionals are also provided with a commitment to the establishment of one of the forms of private practice in which certain healthcare operations are carried out, which require appropriate specialisation, i.e. training. Also, given that the founder of private practice can be an employee and a health worker, this will have a certain impact on the increase in the number of private sector employees, which is in line with government policy. Did the interested parties have a chance to make their views known? On the basis of a member of the Rules of Procedure of the Government, Rule 41, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Public Service of the Government reached its conclusion on 22 July 2014, which accepted the proposal from the Ministry of Health that no public debate on the draft Law amending the Health Protection Act was necessary. Through continued co-operation of the Ministry of Health with the institutions of the health system, the Chamber of Health Care Professionals, the colleges of health professions, health institutions, private practice, an initiative and support has been recognised in relation to the section of professional training of healthcare professionals through specialization and tight specialization. Health institutions and private practice as stakeholders in the previous period showed a real need for specialist staff, however, candidates did not get the consent of this ministry to refer to specialisation and rope specialisation because they did not meet the legal requirements that they had performed for at least two years...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7752	Excuse me, Minister. Please listen to the minister. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: We received material. I really don't understand your MP group. What does that mean we got the material? Please, let the minister expose, read, whatever. Show me the rules where he doesn't have the right to do it. It really doesn't make sense. We don't want to communicate by throwing. Allow the minister to complete his exposure as the minister wishes. No one here has ever been a centurion of the Minister's presentation, and it won't be. Shut up, please, because it interferes with people who want to hear this, laughs, claps, throws. It is really not something that is appropriate to the work of parliament. Here you go, Minister. I apologize on behalf of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7753	I know you got it, but patients, doctors...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7754	Minister, just keep going. Your exposure and the public should hear, not individuals in the O.R. Please don't throw away either the minister or the chairman, whoever it is, to keep some level of this House. You know what the public thinks of Parliament anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7755	What measures will be taken to achieve the reasons for the law? Following the entry into force of this law, an amendment to the sublaw under the planned activities foreseen by the government's work plan, deadline of December 2014, as well as the continuation of the procedure laid down in the provisions of Article 184. The Health Protection Act, which provides for the Minister to agree with the decision of the Director of the Health Institute, i.e. the founder of private practice on the approval of specialisation and rope specialisation. These activities will be carried out by staff at the Ministry of Health in the framework of the competent sector. These jobs do not require the involvement of other persons, experts, consultants, other than health ministry employees, so no additional funding is needed to finance the Republic of Serbia's budget. Reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure. We propose that the Law amending the Health Protection Act be adopted by emergency procedure in order to avoid possible adverse consequences for the smooth work of health institutions, the functioning of health services and the overall health system. The adoption of this emergency law would allow for the timely implementation of the procedure for the approval of specialisation and narrow specialisation by health institutions, i.e. the delivery of documentation to refer candidates to specialisation, which has an impact on the organisation of the work process in health institutions from the network plan, as well as on the overall health system. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7756	I thank the minister. The word is Dr. Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7757	Thank you. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the ministry, the closest associates, I thank you for the referendum you made, which is indeed such that it gave a complete and complete explanation of the reasons for the adoption of this law. You have presented us with the key facts why this should have appeared in this form, it would have been said, minimally by the number of members of the changes that have its essence, the serious essence that should cover what has been happening in Serbia in the past ten years, and for the changes, for the events that have taken place in connection with the organisation of the SNS health service, the least resolute ministry in the current composition, and in some cases in the past, does not bear responsibility. We had the opportunity not to come up with negative effects that are taxingly shown here, to rationally look at the information that Batut gave to the ministry every year in his annual report. Simply put, there should be someone who can do it and who will read and carefully analyze and draw conclusions from it. It has come to this point that we now have to think about who will treat Serbian citizens in the next few years, when with such an age structure and mostly extension, but a minor extension of retirement time creates a kind of hiatus, a void in a very important profession and many very important branches of medicine, which are characterized among other things by the fact that there are also large waiting lists. So one of the parameters that is shown here is closely within and acts at first sight very justifying that the length of waiting for the various interventions that are presented here to us on the summary plan can be in the function of the number of performers, therefore, the physician specialists, because they are mostly specialist and narrowly subspecies. We are also witnessing other events that have affected the collateral health system in the meantime. The labour law is what it is. The conditions of being admitted to the workplace and coming to the hospital, especially the secondary ones, when I say hospitals, I mean secondary and tertiary health institutions, in which in different ways, the most common political recommendation is to open the doors of hospitals, institutes, clinics, etc. There, doctors, received very often on a political basis, waited for the opportunity to come to a specialization, to be translated into a once undefined volunteer state, without any obligation of the institution towards them, once a defined working relationship for a certain time, by obtaining specializations only such specialists need secondary and therapeutic protection, to establish a working relationship indefinitely. The third phenomenon that followed us this time is the fact that due to the joint functioning of the educational institutions and the health sector, where medical schools are, there is the possibility that a large number of doctors who have been admitted as co-workers in various cases are rewarded by the dean by almost the mercy of their own and the choices they make on the basis of internal competitions and specializations, thus creating a parallel system of specialization which is the question of how the system will be able to recognise the design of the plan. So someone who deals with histology will get clinical specialization, like biochemistry, pharmacology or internal medicine that works on physiology. At the same time, this person will cover two jobs and will have a contract to keep otherwise preclinical calling for which the clinic was not needed, so it is one of the phenomena that also affects the number of effective perpetrators that the system cannot identify in good time. The amendment of the law that we did last year, where we brought about the redefining of the network plan and the way in which the staff is obtained and the assessment of their validity, availability, etc., to intervene twice a year, that the basis for this current change will, in a simplified manner, grant specialization, with the necessary condition that someone really has a basic working relationship for indefinitely, at the same time after automation, mean that the institution is collected for one of the doctors who is missing on a particular team. The fourth reason in which we are or possibly a mechanism of reason why we are here, and why we haven't done something so far, is the fact that within many clinical institutions, secondary levels, they've done this job, they've been developing other organisational units. Let's say, the development of emergency centers. Within major hospitals, even city hospitals, are slowly beginning to form emergency centers. Fortunately, they are necessary, necessary, but it is easier to make a decision and buy equipment than to get a fit for it. This is resolved by making it difficult for a large number of doctors, specialists, to withdraw from other departments temporarily, making it difficult for the work of the parent departments instead of forming a newly founded unit as a special organisational unit of the institution in which it is discovered and based with its own staff. There's now a tendency and a need to form paliatical care units. There is a need for new doctors, and the source will give the ministry and health institutions a solution. The need for a new number of personnel, it gives everything a well-founded assumption that this will make sense, and quite certain, since it is about persons, colleagues who have just graduated from medical school. Fortunately or unfortunately, it's going very quickly for Bologna. Whether it's quality or not, we'll see some assessment of knowledge, but it's not the subject of discussion. We arrive at the number of relatively young people who, in calling the masters, will definitely, without any clinical experience, be in a position to choose a particular specialty. Of course, the Ministry of Health cannot, and by one decision or by any fundamental change of law, change all the legal assumptions that stand before us today. That's what I'm saying because someone might show interest that an internship of two years is not a bad solution. If this were to be maintained with a clinical course of two years, it would mean the move of doctors, as a rule, from primary health care, opening competitions and entering an institution where he should receive specialization. That would still slow down and make this job harder. It could have been done sooner, but it didn't. Ten years behind us with a very small number of approved specializations, even internal bans by the ministry to approve specializations, and that's the phenomenon that we MPs here, especially those with a longer period of time, at every opportunity we present as a problem to the minister and we have made a kind of persoassion to change that attitude, that there is no basis for such a thing. I guess Batuta's grades went that way, that I don't repeat myself in that part of the story, but it doesn't seem to be quite understood. Today's solutions, which we propose, we will certainly succeed in bringing this negative trend and the great obsolescence of the staff, which deals with sophisticated work, to ignore, to get the specialists back and to find out still at work colleagues from whom they need to learn their work when they return after specialization to their parent centres and if ever necessary, we are thinking about what the experiences and effects of this are, about some more fundamental and more complete model of change or how the doctors arrive at a health institution after the basic educational cycle has been completed. One of the variants, which we are facing today, may be some fifth element, the fifth motive, which makes us think about it more thoroughly, is the fact that a large number of doctors after completed basic studies, master studies, integrated academics for medicine, dentistry and pharmacies are enrolled in doctoral studies in the hope that it will be a privilege for him to work. This privilege, under the conditions of normally created competitions, may be a privilege, but it is not mandatory and a large number of doctors, who are from doctoral studies today in clinics, are in insufficiently clear status and are located in different departments. These are semi-volunteers, half-clinicals to whom no one has a obligation, according to which some of them are funded by funds that are not budgetary, the RFO does not recognise or recognize it, are in the departments and are waiting for their chance. For many of them, this will be a chance to get a specialization. They're getting new academic titles parallelly, they're getting new knowledge, so they can be expected to be one of the more favourable solutions. As far as deficit specializations are concerned, it's quite certain, we had this model of funding. That's familiar. That's the way to go on. The fate of the one to be defined by clearly stated criteria on the Ministry's website will be known for every health institution in the Republic of Serbia, what is the deficit, for which a colleague and colleague can be defined in their choice to complete the specialisation and as a graduate specialist is a competitor in the conditions of healthy competition in health institutions. The total list of those who will receive specialisations, based on Article 1's position, will be equal to the collection of needs that the network's facility, the institution concerned, has been covered. These are the reasons why all of this should be accepted and what should be considered constructively. To the public, this part of the story is quite intriguing for those who intend to compete, who expect that in this way, only finished doctors will get to the specialisation faster, let's say, to bring out the mechanisms in which they can do it all, and that the necessary conditions of two years of working experience are not needed, some institutions have it through organized volunteer work, some of them don't have it. It's quite heterogeneously solved and solved by acts brought by the facility itself. Those acts can't be affected by the ministry. What kind of organisational acts they have, what their employment plan is, what kind of strategy it is, how they will receive people in a working relationship, what their specialisation plan is, the ministry is powerless, but through the boards of directors, it can affect the outcome of these acts and control the will of some health institutions that some people and some candidates hold too long in unclear status, and people don't really know where they are. There are plenty of cases like this in Serbia. It was observed in your report, in a report that you stated that there is a territorial inequality of the number of doctors according to the number of patients, given in relation to the province of Vojvodina and the Nishav region, where we see that this is a rather large deviation. The Batuta estimates and estimates from the network plan will likely be different for individual regions and will not be uniformly presented. What we could get in this place, and as far as primary healthcare is concerned, is the number of doctors who work there, as well as the number of service users, the burden on one doctor, expressed by the number of visits to the infirmary. Very interesting, except for gynecology, there are three or four times more visits everywhere than the number of patients belonging to them according to the criteria and norms of one doctor. This suggests that awareness of prevention is not sufficiently developed, that it should try to motivate the gynological side of the story, while in general practice, school dispensers, children's dispensers there are more visits, and up to four times, than the number of healthcare users in the doctor's proper profile. It is something that will certainly affect decision-making when it comes to the approval of specialization at the level of primary health care. We're kind of in a little bit of trouble here. Doctors have already established a working relationship for a certain time, there they function as doctors of general practice. Whether or not they recognize the institution, from the plan of the network according to the number of those found on demographic principle as users of services, the right and the need to pre-retire one gynecologist to determine and target the specialization of the other, this law gives him quite free hands because he does not change things if someone already has a certain number of years of training to get that specialization. In primary health care that thing is pretty clean and pretty clear. That system has so far shown endurance, efficiency. We might find some objections about how much reception, how much payment is the ideal solution, how many negative effects there are, but it's the subject of a future assessment that the ministry will deal with, and we'll eventually see what it looks like and what the assessments of that state are. I would like to call on the other representatives of the political parties who are to be debated today to support this bill. We actually couldn't get anything better to solve this problem more quickly and efficiently. For all of us, our colleagues, our colleagues who are directors of health care institutions, we are left to do as objectively and as efficiently and justly as possible to receive doctors to such specializations, selecting those who are offered to us, because one of the demographic tendencies is also retaining in large centres. It's a socio-economic category, finally and the need for young people to stay in places of study, to look for their own happiness and finally form marriages, marriages and so forth, working where college is and ends. This small migration from the place of education towards its place of residence, a residence in which they were present prior to the arrival of the specialisation, burdens local health institutions themselves. The diapasone of those who will come here is increasing significantly. Something to do, to encourage this "cam back", this return of young people in this way, the assignment of specialization with zero working hours is certainly one of the motivating factors, and I see also ways that the mass of people not waiting in vain by the bureaus, from which they can now get volunteer specialization from the area of deficits, who is interested in it and if he is willing to endure. Those parts of the costs prescribed by any health-educated institution involved in the education of a specialist rank. They have their tariffs, as tariffs have doctoral studies in which the ministry simply cannot interfere, nor give recommendations, and of course inspection controls are carried out over what needs to be checked, to see content, plans, programmes, because the minister, the ministry approves curricula and specialisation programmes etc. What else is good for a solution like this? The fact that specializations, maybe I'm intimate and I can't agree with that, both longer and more thoroughly prepared and a large number of tests, are organised differently than from the time I, say, did a specialization. It's probably the buckle that allows doctors, those who compete for specialization, who have not had experience in some clinical practice, it's usually general medicine in earlier times, to continue to reach a sufficient level of knowledge and useful information because the process of education itself will take longer. Specialization is five or six years old, subspecies can be linked to this by automation, so it means subspecialist, cardiosurgeon or intervention radiologist for certain areas can only be obtained after four, five or six years and this is a large period of time in which these at the age of 48 or 50 from areas that are at the same time related to the fact that there is a large waiting list, that there are not enough personnel that can do so to lead them to retirement. A colleague who would return at a time where a doctor could be in his arms for a year or two has been decimated. So, we will succeed at the last moment, to put it simply, to get a certain number of young specialists whose education is not completed by the act of getting a degree in specialists or subspecies, but by returning to their institution according to which it is finally a legal obligation to do some time, which is good. That's what we protect ourselves from, and from the spills, even though it's some kind of martecial way, but we're also protecting ourselves from the outflows of our schooling, because schooling isn't cheap. We are first and foremost solving the basic form of the institution. A great deal of help from this is for the institutions of the territorial rank that are related to educational institutions such as medical schools, dental schools, etc., where it will be generated exactly certain areas, where we will get good co-workers in teaching and improve the quality of those who will provide students with basic educational content during their growing and maturing to scientific calling, to becoming a docent or professor how this now exists, which is quite similar to what was before. I mean, in one final statement at the end of this story that this is a good solution, that we don't have a better solution so far, that time will show its efficiency...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7758	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7759	... Or it's actually the only way that we can, I end up, stop this way, draining and aging a very important population, and these are doctors specialists and subspecies and give benefit to the citizens and the army itself of unemployed young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7760	Thank you, Dr. Pocuric. Mr. Alexander Jerkov answered his word. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7761	Mr. Vice President, something very strange happened earlier, which seems to me to be out of line with Article 96. Rules of Procedure. In fact, Mr. Poscurica was given the word a little bit by the order which determines our Rules of Procedure since he predicts that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7762	Let me give you an explanation. At that moment, he was the only one reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7763	... If I can wait, wait until I say what I have because it has nothing to do with who is first reported, since I think all MPs sitting in this Chamber just as they know what the constitutional basis is that the Assembly is making laws, which the Minister has read to us unselfishly, and they also know that the President of the National Assembly, after the Prime Minister explains the law, asks what the Rules of Procedure undertakes – whether the president, or the authorised representative of the Committee, wants a word, and then the President of the Parliamentary Groups. It's part of my intervention. There are no arguments that you can give that can justify this procedure. It is obvious that the Rules of Procedure have been broken because there is a certain order that depends on whether one of the MPs did not know the order applied for the word. The second thing applies to Article 108. The president of the National Assembly has in a way very explicitly accused five DS MPs of making noise in a room that has 250 MPs and has done so in a way that has accused us of, I don't know, lowering the level of dignity of the National Assembly or something like that, demeaning the reputation of the National Assembly or something, she said. The truth was completely different. The truth was that all MPs spoke among themselves because the minister had done something that many ministers had not done so far. We got this material a month and a half ago...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7764	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7765	... We have read every word and I ask you to come prepared in the future to the meetings of this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7766	Time's up. Before I ask if you'd like the Assembly to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'll give you an explanation after I've been in the O.R. First, we can and must respect the Rules of Procedure and when it is a matter of order, but we cannot do so if we do not have registered MPs in the system who want to speak. The moment Dr. Poscurica's word was given, there was no one else in the system but him. Secondly, he took advantage of the possibility that his right to be authorized in front of the board and authorized in front of the parliamentary group would come together and not speak twice but once, and that's correct of Mr. Poscurica. Also, for what you said, I was present when the president warned all MPs and MPs to listen to the minister. We MPs have received material, but citizens have the right to hear a reasoned bill and we allow each minister to do so in his own way and I think it is useful for citizens to hear a full explanation that may not be in two or three sentences. It's every minister's right and we shouldn't... But at the moment when the president warned all MPs in a way with a bell, and then by asking them to silence and listen to the minister, you reacted sharply, and so she continued to explain to you why it was necessary for the minister to be heard. Thank you. (Employment of Alexander Jerkov, from the place: I want the congregation to declare itself. ( b) Do you want the congregation to declare itself? Yeah. ) The Assembly will declare itself in the voting day. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, deputy head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Martinovic. I'm gonna have to delete the list so I can give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I will say in advance that I will not ask the Parliament in the day to vote for a statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure. If we were to respect and apply Article 108(2) consistently, then the President of the National Assembly should have given one of the following measures - a warning, a distance from the session of DS MPs who during the Minister's interpretation of the Bill on Health Protection Supplements laughed, screamed, banged about the benches, protested because the minister reads etc. Completely neglecting the fact that Mr. Loncar is a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the National Assembly and that he addresses not only the MPs, who of course received a bill of law with an explanation, but he addresses the citizens and, in particular, addresses young doctors whose benefit this law is in fact and makes it easier to get specialisation and to stay in the Republic of Serbia, which is of course of interest to them, but also to patients. Given the fact, which the minister very detailedly explained, we have a problem from year to year with the deficit of specialists of a particular profession. So, if DS MPs find this subject boring, if they think they are too smart and know more than the minister, no one makes them sit in the hall, but let the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have not received this bill and have the right to hear what it is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Health, offers as a solution to a very serious problem facing the health system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7768	Time, Mr. Martinovic. I thank Mr. Martinovic. Before I give my word to the MP Nevena Stojanovic, I ask Dr Ljiljana Kosarić, on what basis did you sign up? Well, you can't be authorized because you supplied the authority, but after that, Mirko Chikiriz also delivered it. Then it's not right, it's not well done. Then we will treat Mrs. Kosaric as an authorised representative. The word is Dr. Ljiljana Kosarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7769	Dear Representative, Mr Minister, honourable fellow Members, consider these proposed amendments to the Health Protection Act in Article 184 of the SPO to be a necessary and systemic solution. What makes us think that? It's exactly what they were brought in for. By allowing specialisation of young doctors, i.e. pharmacists and other healthcare professionals and high school professional associates, after a traineeship and a professional examination, provided that they are indefinitely employed in the system of a state health care institution, in a network of health institutions, it is a big newspaper, because it erases that relationship of two years that the doctor had to carry out in general practice, and after obtaining a specialist in pathology, etc. The second thing is also important that volunteer specializations that can be made possible by doctors who are unemployed, from private practice, are assessed by the ministry when the fit is disabled. The third thing, which certainly brings us joy and which will give us one uniformity in health institutions, is the period that is now clearly defined, after the completion of the specialization and after the professional examination is passed, it takes twice the time for each doctor with specialization to spend in his institution. We know, it used to be quite different, it could have been about a year, somewhere it's been double, somewhere it's been counting since the beginning of the specialization, since the first day the specialization was approved. Definitely, we'll have this one for a long time that won't leave. What is this all about, and what has motivated us to give a useful debate about this law? First of all, they benifits that this law adopts, which is an increase in professional staff, not only will young people be hired, which will receive specialisation, which will be the age structure repaired, but will also be prevented, in our opinion, and migration, both young and fellow with a good working experience, because they will be less burdened and overcome these deviations, i.e. deficit specializations that are defined in relation to normatives. Now, if you'll excuse me, I need to make a statement. My colleague talked more about secondary health care, I work for 30 years in primary health care, and I'm a pediatrician. As a doctor, and first of all, in the experience of health care management, I have to say that in the last eight years, since 2005, a large number of laws have been passed. Indeed, a large number of legal solutions, regulations, strategies, and all of this was aimed at reform, and I don't think any of these reform laws have been done in any of our areas anymore than in health care. But what's the problem here? Perhaps this is the answer to all those who have said that since the start of the constitution of this government, since 15 April, that this assembly has made nothing concrete about health, no law, no great law. We've got enough big laws, where it's a little debateable, with some interventions that we think are necessary, but these reforms haven't started. We just tap in place. We are facing a stumbling block and, most importantly, for eight years, regardless of any communication between health institutions and the Ministry of Health simply did not solve the problem. I really want you to endure what you started. It is you who have set off this stumbling block to get out of the way, such as the waiting list, as is the problem we are currently discussing, because definitely what is not being implemented in health care is that both health workers and institutions are suffering and the community, and the most patients suffer. One thing is certain, I really don't understand, for years reports have been sent for certain periods of time and on the human structure, and it was really clear what the structure of health care is. The other thing, which would distract me, I think all my colleagues here will support me, is the regulation on the near conditions for performing health care. This Regulation, which was adopted in 2006, prescribes how to apply, how equipment, space and medicines. We all know the situation we have been in with regard to both equipment and space, both internal forces and the involvement of many international organisations has done a lot on equipment and space, it certainly still needs a lot. But as for that best resource we have and that we need, human resources, a little attention has been paid. I'm about to look back here at primary health care, and we've already heard from the media how many radiologists, anesthesiologists, cardiosurgeons are missing. It's those big branches where you save a man's life and you really need to intervene and it's awkward when we don't have a frame. But what about primary health care? It has been said since 2006 that there are many employees, that there are many doctors, and every year in making a report, it has really been a problem for how many people are going to be out of work. We even counted. It is not just a situation in the pleasure region, in DZ "Kosjeric", where I come from, but in all health centres in Serbia. But what was the real situation? I must say that according to this regulation and the general medical services with home treatment, care and emergency medical care, we know that the number of residents is determined how many people will have some home health care, i.e. How much will it belong to the municipality, up to 25,000 inhabitants, 50,000 over 150,000. There are a large number of those small homes of health that do not have the opportunity to form a population of 50,000, but have, say, 15,000 and have an independent medical emergency. Then we have a situation that, by the book, that doctor who's in this service, he's a doctor, he's a doctor, he works in the ER. provides assistance when the patient comes in, home treatment, palitative care, which is even more unfortunate, we have all set out to respect both principles and to join these European integrations, patient appointments and where the availability of the physician himself is certainly improved with an appointment, knows the time and when, and in most primary health homes, it will not take some time to wait, but in the morning the patient can schedule and that he knows how much he will come when the least crowded, and when the emergency is received by order of urgency and in these smaller homes of health at 6,000 inhabitants, the rule provides for one doctor, one nurse and one driver. On 12,000 two such teams, plus one sister. Now, indeed, in the experience of the House of Health Kosjerić and many other homes of health 12,000 inhabitants, how to organize special shift work and when it comes to sisters. This problem definitely, and that there is no respect for the Labour Act, that work and overtime there is no possibility and there is no technique that can be agreed upon. I'd like to ask you to ask someone at some point for health care levels as much as health care workers, i.e. Doctors, including nurses, and even drivers, have days off that aren't used. Believe me, you'll be amazed. I'm sure 15, 20, 30 that I can never use. It's not a problem. Everyone is aware that they do not have to use them, but we must ask ourselves whether such a healthcare professional is capable at all times to provide emergency or other medical care. He will, he will do his best, but they say that health care professionals and young people are dying, and neither is the labour law problem, many of us will not experience it. This time I'll just ask the question – is it true that there are many of us in health care? Right now, it has proved that we are not enough, that the problem with specializations and what is the backbone of the health system, is the primary health care where in the previous period little attention has been paid, and primary health care is those big doors that enter the health system and the healthcare system guards, and right now, I can say freely, if we have good primary health care, then there will be both good and less work in both secondary and territorial. What primary health care is doing, under Article 88, protection and improvement of health, prevention, treatment of diseases, here I would refer to this preventive health care. Exactly, whether health care professionals have enough time to dedicate it, and precisely in terms of this topic that we are discussing. The timely training of doctors and sufficient numbers will certainly ensure that, above all, when we know that we are a country with a large number of chronic non-infectious diseases, with malignant, cardiovascular diseases, where we also take the first place in Europe, and according to the number of doctors in 100,000 inhabitants, is that we are much lower than in the European Union, but if we were to count as the 29th EU member, we would take that 25th place, which is certainly not envious. With these systemic measures taken with the amendments to this law, I deeply believe that the implementation of organised strategies for early detection of breast and uterus cancers in women and colon cancers in both sexes will be much more effective, have more time, because all healthcare professionals are familiar with both national and clinical pathways and national guides of good practice, but simply in the right way and until the end of time they cannot be implemented, because definitely, if one doctor has 50, 60 patients during the day, then we ask ourselves about the quality and the time left for this prevention. In particular, I would refer to pediatrics for sure, where I think we have done a lot so far and that we can deal with many European countries, and the national youth strategy remains to be implemented until the end, then child protection protocol against violence, women from violence, developmental counselling centres to bring us back to life, and even youth counselling, regardless of the number of inhabitants, although it is limited to lawyers, but whatever they are necessary. I'd like to say one more thing. In the previous period, much has been done and we have witnessed what has been done with dental health care at the primary level. I really think that many unpleasant situations have also been experienced by employees in this area and health institutions, that they do not need them, that there are a large number of them, that they must be the first to go to market business, then the problem of the intern services. I am as deeply believed as most colleagues that the internal services are necessary to stay in the home of health due to the increase in diabetes, chronic non-infectious diseases, because we cannot forget the fact that there are such places where a patient needs 20, 30 and 40 kilometers to get from residence to home health, and then maybe so much to the first institution where the internalists find it. What is certainly evident is that the SPO in the previous period has been on several occasions and asked these questions and I really think that more mandates and above all turned to attention and that at the moment about 60,000 citizens are on various waiting lists for medical interventions, how can this be solved, then the problem of apparatus that are incorrect, which are not revered, is the issue of precisely these personnel. I think that solutions with new laws are, please continue at this pace, and in the SPO programme, that every citizen has the right to quality and accessible health care regardless of where he is and in the day for the SPO vote will support these legislative changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7770	Thank you, Mrs. Kosoric. National MP Nevena Stojanovic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7771	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs and MPs, the fact that the health system in Serbia is in an invisible state and that we are facing a number of problems and difficulties when it comes to health care, but we also believe that today's bill on the agenda is one of the steps towards progress and improvement of the health system, we also believe it is necessary, which is why the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support this draft law in the voting day. I really didn't need statistics and charts to explain this law so I could say that, at least from the point of view of citizens who are forced to use health services, one of the biggest problems in our health care exactly waiting and those waiting lists, that according to the various waiting rooms of our health homes, after which we seem to come out even sicker, and waiting for various surgical interventions, unfortunately, those patients who do not wait for that order in the best case of losing only trust in the system and in the worst even life. The data from the explanations that were meant to me are those that show how many patients go through the surgery of a general physician, for example, and the number is about 6,439 on average. And then I realize that like most of the citizens I know, I have often wronged doctors precisely because of the superficial medical service that has been provided to us, not realizing under what pressure and burden these people are doing. Exclusion of the doctor's post after retirement, too much time to get specialisation and an increasing number of departures from the country have led to 307 doctors in Serbia in 2013, which would not be such a bad situation if we compared ourselves with the EU, which was their average in 2004. But considering the deficited branches of medicine and the lack of radiologists, anesthesiologists, pathologists, as well as cardio surgeons and pediatricians, we realize that this average doesn't tell us much. Since you, distinguished ministers, have said a lot in your presentation and explained this bill in detail, I will try to look only at the essence and the corner of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, the law. Therefore, the essence of the proposal for this law is that it shortens the procedures for obtaining the conditions of a doctor for enrolment, more specifically working doctors after a professional examination and traineeship will no longer have to wait two years in general practice, which is this, still in force by law, prescribed, but will immediately be able to enroll the desired specialist studies. This law, I believe, will be a motivating factor for young doctors to stay in their country, to perfect themselves and work there, and that will mean increased chances for our citizens to be treated in their country rather than for professional doctors and their services to be sought at overpriced clinics abroad. And as the MEPs advocate that young people stay in Serbia, this will certainly be a motivating factor for us to vote in favour of this bill. The bottom line is that, if, of course, the law is properly implemented, we will be witnesses of the underjudicial staff of all health institutions who will have the opportunity to replace their fellow doctors who are going to retire, and if the sublegal acts and provisions provided for by the government's 2014 plan are implemented and staff policies set up in accordance with the same, and raised to the level of professional planning, human resources organisation, setting up short-term and long-term objectives, all health institutions will work much more efficiently and efficiently and will be on the good path to establishing a really good health system. In the end, I will repeat that this is a practical law that is necessary and therefore the Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7772	Thank you, Miss Stojanović. The word has the head of the parliamentary group, the People's MP Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7773	Dear Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, I will speak today from the aspect of a remote part of our country, from the aspect of the Sandzak citizens living far away and from the problems they face when it comes to health care. When it comes to this law that you have made, this bill, I can say that they have some extremely good and long-awaited newspapers that are looking forward to us all, especially the fact that you have abolished those two years as a condition of working time to get specialization, which means that young people will use their youth to gain specialist knowledge and education and thus be specialists for longer to provide quality services to citizens. There are many more newspapers that you have introduced and have long waited for by all of us who are in health care. However, I would not speak at the moment about these issues because the people of Sandzak are interested in some of the previous issues. I can tell you, dear ministers, that until now, all governments have treated Sandzak and the citizens living in that undeveloped region, no matter what nations or what religions they are. When we talk about the previous question, I can tell you, as Minister of Government, I've been working on it for six years, convincing my colleagues to put order into the plan of the network of health institutions. You know that according to our laws in the Republic of Serbia, the network of thousands of inhabitants belongs to 5.15 beds in hospital beds. However, when you see that there are only 420 beds in Novi Pazar on the city that has about 150,000 inhabitants, you will see that all the governments have been incorrect here before, so please, I would like to draw attention to you to do something about it. Let us compare one, for example, a drastic question – Užice. There are 740 beds, and the New Market has 420 beds, and there are even more drastic cases when it comes to population numbers, and here I draw your attention. The second previous issue that is important for the development of health care in our country, especially in Sandzak, is the establishment of a public health office. As president of the municipality sometimes and as minister of government in almost two terms, I've worked hard on it, but I haven't been able to convince any government to do anything to establish a public health office. As you know for yourself, the Institute of Public Health is one institution that is just as important as it is to identify the necessary specialization, priority specializations, the plan to develop health care in our country. Because of the lack of public health services, we have the condition that Sandzak is the only region in Serbia that does not have an angelic hall. We have a situation that for 20 years, nothing has been invested in health facilities, in the development of health, and as a consequence, I can tell you, as an ordinary man, as a citizen, this morning I was to wait for my son at the bus station and I see that I am an old practice that has been plagued by Sandzak citizens, who impose on buses at 12 and 2 o'clock, leaving for Belgrade, full of buses, in order to exercise their basic rights in the field of health care in Belgrade. They travel by bus all night, stay here in Belgrade all day and some things have to be paid by private clinics because the state has not invested in health facilities and medical equipment. So as a colleague, I ask you to advocate, to correct this injustice and thus to enable these very poor citizens of this poorest and most underdeveloped part of our country, so that they too can exploit and exercise their rights in accordance with the law. The other thing is, we mentioned a little development. We have a case that the Shadow, which is 50 kilometers from Novi Pazar, where all Shadows are mostly being treated in Novi Pazar because of the absence of this public health and indifference facility, the lack of understanding of all previous governments, we still don't have a general hospital in Sjenica. The shadows are defined by law and this network of health institutions to be treated in Užica. Imagine an absurd? Double as they travel to heal, and everybody mostly uses New Market. That's why we have to do something about it. I propose to you as a colleague, as an MP, I will certainly support this as well as the representatives of a Bosniak minority SDA Sandzak party, will support your proposal, but I am asking you to let you know what amicably I suggest, what would be useful for us, for our government, for our country, for our people to do, so I ask you to bear in mind these previous issues - the change of the network of health institutions, to correct the injustices of that part of our country, the introduction of public health institutions, investment in capacities, and in that sense an increase, creating conditions for people to live where they can exercise their rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7774	Thank you, Dr. Ugljanin. The word has a minister in the government, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7775	Thank you for your presentation. I have to tell you that we've already scheduled for 2015 for the establishment of a public health office and we're scheduled to agree on other activities. Our idea is to get you involved a little more actively, you'll have the full support of the state, but let's see about finding the funds that would be invested down in health care. I don't think there should be any problem, not to rely too much on the budget, on a country that we know what it is, and we have a lot of interested people who would like to invest in that area and then just make one system how it's going to work, and this is already scheduled for next year to live and work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7776	Thank you, Mr. Lonchart. The word is Mr. Ugljanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7777	To my fellow Minister, I would like to draw attention to the amendment to the regulation on the plan of a network of health institutions. The plan of a network of health institutions is a basic prerequisite and a future institution. I congratulate you on that, and I thank you for this information that you will make it happen during the next year of the Institute of Public Health, but the plan of a network of health institutions determines, prejudges and the number of specializations and the number of doctors and everything else that makes a prerequisite for the previous issue, so I ask you to work on it. I'm willing to meet you personally and your colleagues, your ministry, both as a colleague and as an MP, both in the field and here, and to work on providing equipment, but we need conditions. Therefore, the amendment of the Regulation on a network of health institutions is a prerequisite for all preconditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7778	Thank you, Dr. Ugljanin. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7779	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, without a healthy nation, there is no progress in the state. That is why it is very important for each country to have a strong and stable health system. We're all aware of the situation and those old sayings, I'd say that the only health and knowledge is never enough. That is why this amendment to the law, although in one article, in my opinion, is essential to stabilising our health system. Since my colleagues here mainly bring up the problems that we all face and that burden our health system, which you are also very well aware of with your associates, I will also say in this regard some data and situations in which I think our health care is burdened more than it should be. As I prepare for this presentation today, I have read recent statements and representatives of the European Commission, who have said that more than 140m euros from European funds have been invested in Serbia since 2002 and that we are an example of a country in which health has been very much invested, that there are not many effects and results. Also, the data I read through the RZS, which was delivered by the Institute of Public Health, says we have 2,453 doctors at the Bureau and 1,000 dentists. You have announced that over the next 500 doctors will be employed, which is for every commendation, but we have other problems that burden our health system. First of all, our medical staff is getting old and therefore we have a decline in the quality of health care. The waiting lists are still very long and they are not only caused by lack of material resources, but often by insufficient coverage of the population by the adequate number of specialists doctors. That's why I think the change in this article has been extorted in the situation we're in and there's no other way to repair the age structure when it comes to specialists. According to data I have, 17% of Serbian doctors are over 60 years old and only 3% younger than 30 years old. This situation suggests that in the next period we will have to hire a large number of doctors to replace those who retire, and we are all wondering if there will be enough money for their salaries. The medical system lacks pathologists, anesthesiologists, radiologists. The average age of interns, pediatricians, gynecologists is 55 years old. Only in ten years will they retire, and only then will their deficit practically come out. A small number of crafts are also in the field of cardiosurgery and pediatrics, and it is very clear that in the future we will have problems with the lack of these personnel, while a large number of doctors are waiting for work and losing their knowledge and skills during schooling. According to the information I found, I think that from the beginning of this year 650 doctors have asked for a certificate of good practice, which they need for foreign employment. I don't blame you for the situation in which our health care is. You know very well all this information I have provided for the citizens of Serbia. I believe that in the next period you will do everything in your power to correct this situation. If you succeed, you will always have our support for all the reform laws you propose. Be assured that Serbian citizens will also know that they appreciate and reward every positive step in health care. I think two very important changes to this member of the law in the coming period will prove to be good. The first is that these two years are abolished, that it will practically speed up the status of specialist doctors and thus contribute to the rejuvenation of this category of healthcare professionals. Another important news is that you, as minister, are given this change the right to approve specialization and unemployed healthcare professionals with higher education who completed the traineeship and passed the professional exam in the area of deficiting professions, i.e. the medical, dentistry and pharmacies. This is an important novelty compared to the existing solution, where one of the basic preconditions was to get a permanent working relationship. As for corruption, I think this government has taken significant steps in the fight against corruption and that the effects and results of this are seen. But first of all, what I think as a man and I want to say to this occasion is the fact that as much corruption as there is in healthcare – there is much. I'm also sure that a huge number of experts, doctors, technicians, nurses, are doing their job, and they don't think to abuse their knowledge and their professional honor. I expect in the coming period that you and the associates you work with are practically coordinating the Ministry of Health for the Medical Chamber, the Serbian Medical Society, and that simply very quickly, perhaps more than you can, we see some shifts in improving Serbia's health system and health care. We as MPs, along with the inspection services that in the field of health care should do our job, perform the control role and in some way examine you, in terms of and the adoption of new laws as well as controls of existing ones. I think it is very important that you continue to conduct the health education of the population and screening programs in the next period, because I think these are the most important factors that depend on the advancement of health care, quality and the average life duration of each of our inhabitants. The NS parliamentary group will support amendments and additions to this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7780	Thank you. The word is by MP Branko Djurovic. Here you go, Dr. Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7781	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the Ministry of Health, ladies and gentlemen, respected MPs, human resources is a crucial factor in the development of every health system, in all its phenomena – promotion, prevention and treatment. Based on the data provided by the Institute of Public Health "Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut", the Republic Bureau of Statistics, the Regulation on specializations and sub-species, as well as the rules concerning the conditions of performance of health care, an increased age structure of healthcare professionals and health associates was observed. Deficitary medical branches are defined on the basis of a reduced number of healthcare professionals and health associates compared to pre-defined normatives. All of this earlier says that it is necessary for healthcare professionals to be sent immediately to specialisation or, if it comes to specialists, to be sent to subspecial studies after completing their basic studies, after completing the traineeship and taking the state exam. A total of 126,288 employees were employed in health institutions from the 2013 Network Plan. The number of doctors employed indefinitely, this data is valid for 31 December 2013, amounting to 21,607, of which is 15,295 in the rank of medical specialists. For this year 2013, we have a normative that reads - 307 doctors on 100,000 inhabitants. In 2011, EU countries had a normative – 346 doctors on this same population. The EU countries had 308 doctors on 100,000 residents now long ago in 2004. What does it take to get to know the public of Serbia? It's that one discord in this medical normative of 100,000 inhabitants. We have 209 doctors in the Srem County, while in Moravsky or Nisavski County we have an increased number and it is 426 doctors to 100,000 inhabitants. This data actually gives us at the same time a prediction that should be our activities in the further development of the health system. The number of specialist branches in the Republic of Serbia related to medical doctors is 46 and the sub-specialist branches are 43. What is alarming, the average age of doctor medicine in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is for those who have completed specialisation or have been under specialisation or subspecialisation for 48.5 years, and those who have completed some specialisation or subspecies, this age structure is higher and is 50.4 years old. In certain deficits, this average age is 47.5 years. Our Republic is getting older at an ever-increasing percentage and that's good. It's one of the indicators of our health system, because 17.40% of the population is over 65 years old. What pathology is medically dominated by this population structure? These are non-infectious diseases. As part of non-infectious diseases, we include heart and blood vessels diseases, malignancies, diabetes, chronic pulmonary obstructive disease, injuries, and others. It is something equivalent to other countries of Europe and the world. But what's worrying, this population of non-infectious diseases is dominant in our population until 65. In the Republic of Serbia, and this should be apostrophe here, 100,000 people die annually. Each other dies from heart disease and blood vessels, each fifth due to some form of malignant neoplasm, each tenth due to injury, diabetic complications and chronic obstructive disease. In the last 20 years, we have an explosion, an increased incidence of malignant neoplasms and complications related to diabetes, or diabetes. The participation of specialists older than 55 years is as follows: in pediatricians – 28% is over 55 years old; in anesthesiologist – 18.2%; in gynecologist – 16.8%; intern – 16.9% and radiologist – 15.4%. The plan of conducting an organized national screening of malignant neoplasms, and we think mostly when we talk about women's population in breast cancer and uterine cancer, and as for both sexes in colon cancer, predicts that in the next five years we have a 100% coverage. So, practically, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia should be part of an organized national screening for malignant neoplasm. The waiting list is certainly one of the main indicators of the country's health system. What does she look like in our country for 2012? The longest wait was for orthopaedic interventions, hip replacements and knee prosthetics, 241.4 days, then ophthalmological lens replacement operations in cataracts, the average waiting time was 259,8 days. What's satisfactory is waiting for invasive cardiology procedures. These procedures are 30.8 days within clinical centres and 96.7 days within clinical centres. What does that mean? Well, that gives us one more prediction where we need to increase our activities in the development of the health system. So we need to increase the amount of work at the level of clinical hospital centres and employ more specialists as part of clinical centres. Now a fundamental question arises - will the change of this article 184. Health care law have a positive repercussion to our next ranking for 2014 by the European Health Consumer Index?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7782	I beg the MPs on the right... He thought you were throwing him away because of the noise. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7783	Can I ask the President of the Assembly to give me the usual conditions for the presentation?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7784	I'm trying. It depends on your colleagues. You've heard a request from the MPs sent to the MPs, not the chairman, and I'm listening to your statements.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7785	I'm just asking the chairman to establish the usual working conditions...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7786	Just tell me what you want. You want me to interrupt the session?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7787	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7788	Then I ask my colleagues to make the work possible. Here you go, MP. You go ahead. The absolute silence is impossible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7789	As we know from the ranking of the European Health Consumer Index, we are in the last 35th place in ranking the health systems of European countries. In 2013, on 18 December, at the meeting of the Committee of the National Health and Family Assembly, two of the leaders of the European Consumer Health Index, i.e. the European Health Consumer Index, who gave us their view on the health system of the Republic of Serbia and what should possibly be changed there. Johan Hertvist is the president of a Swedish-based private company that analyses the quality of European countries and Canada's health systems. It is funded by the cost of the European Parliament. The private company is called the Helt consumer Power House HCP. The private company, which means funded by the European Parliament, began its life in 2004 and their most significant product is one clinical study that began its life next in 2005. It is this European Health Consumer Index, i.e. European Health consumer index. Executive Director of this study, this project is Mr. Arne Bjorberg. So these two were guests here at the National Assembly on December 18, 2013 at the meeting of the Health and Family Committee. That's where Mr Arne Bjorberg brought out the rankings of European countries. They are ranked on the basis of public statistics that each country presents based on the results of surveys among the patients of a particular country and based on independent research by the Helt consumer Power House. It's this private company I was talking about earlier. The 2013 index ranked 35 European countries where, practically, 48 indicators covering six of the most significant areas related to the provision of health services at patient level were tested as part of each country's testing. These areas are the following – the rights and information of patients under two – the accessibility of treatment, the accessibility of treatment includes waiting lists, under three – the outcome of treatment, four – the range and availability of health services, five – pharmaceutical means, the sixth group promoted in 2013 is also related to prevention and eight indicators. Based on all these indicators, the definition of 48 RS indicators, which in practical terms implies the answer to 1700 questions related to these indicators, based on analysis 1700 estimates, we took the last place in 2013 and 2012. At that session, Mr. Arne Bjorberg gave his view that Serbia's health system could change. A post-translucency post should be introduced, which means publishing the work and quality of the work of certain hospitals and employees within these hospitals. Why hospitals here are apostrophe in that prediction so we can help and improve the RS health system. Because hospitals or secondary or tertiary levels of health care are the largest consumption generators in the health system. In Serbia, the health budget is $2 billion, 60% of the budget goes to hospital work. This means that, practically for the work of hospitals on secondary and territorial levels, RS spends one billion and 200m euros each year. For 2013, the European health consumer index has used its financing of unlimited grants, i.e. financial donations by three institutions. Faiser's first institution, the strongest pharmaceutical multinational company. Under two companies “Medikaver” from Belgium and three – New Directing Foundation company. So that practically ECHI or European health consumer index absolutely has one transparency in its work. If we are now looking at what should be the result of the change in this 184th member of the Health Protection Act to improve some of these indicators that I have cited, we can say that we expect a positive result and a positive outcome. In Voting Day, the SDPS parliamentary club will vote in favour of wanting and hoping that this is the beginning of a comprehensive cycle of reorganisation of the RS health system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7790	The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7791	Dear President, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, you are the first time in this room in the role of Minister of Health and I welcome you. I personally expected that as the first entry into this hall of the Serbian Parliament, you would enter with a number of amendments to the Health Protection Act or even with the new Health Protection Act, given that the health care system in Serbia and back has been continuously, every month for more than twenty years, every month, worse and worse, in order to collapse in the last few years. What currently exists in Serbia as a health care system is an dysfunctional state for patients, but also for doctors who are in many situations, in many hospitals unable to provide their knowledge and provide health care to our citizens who see it daily. So I sincerely hope that this is the beginning of a deeper process of reforming the health sector, not just one small sign that something is being done, and that someone will stop you or something will stop you. What I want to say about your proposal today, and as a doctor and as a professor, I always support that young doctors have a chance to get to work as soon as possible, to get to specialization and that's a good thing, that's a good thing. However, I must inform you that in 2013, the previous Government stopped the reception of young doctors and that by legal means, where the Ministry of Finance has to get a plan to hire doctors, to approve them, depending on the funds. Former Health Minister Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic had these problems, so when you say this is a way to stop young doctors from going abroad, I tell you it is not. This is just one way to get kids to work after college, to have a chance to specialize, to get new knowledge, but it's not a way to find a job, since there are still these rules of play where the Ministry of Finance regulates how much you'll be able to hire young doctors. As the Ministry of Health, you need to do a more detailed plan for the health network, health institutions in the Republic of Serbia, as well as redefining the necessary health personnel in our Republic. I have listened to you several times since you became a minister, you said that Serbia has a surplus doctor, that many more doctors are educated and educated than Serbia may need, and you have testified that you have said yourself, and today you have said that Serbia is facing an old doctor's structure, that the average age of a doctor is between 45 and 46, which is true. And on my case, I can tell you that I'm one of the youngest doctors at my clinic at 46 years old and that our medical profession is slowly getting old, slowly retireing, that young doctors are leaving us, and that's one big problem you're facing anyway. It's something we have to solve, and you have to redefine it, because no one else can solve this problem like you in that position right now. You have an ideal chance, given that no party has ever held a united health care and health sector from the Republic Fund to a number of KC directors, a number of health institutions directors, which unfortunately, many times we have had the opportunity to hear that they will be chosen by profession, by quality, but mostly continues practice from earlier years, from the years where different political parties led the Ministry of Health and where most of these directors were placed in political likeness, whether members of one, second or third coalition parties. I think we all need to understand together that we have a problem with political interference in all segments and sectors and that health care needs to be protected, and you as a government and we as an opposition to say that it is a lot more that politics determines who will lead some important health institutions, that politics determines who will be admitted and that doctors are only received by whether they are members of a political party, and that some good children, I as a professor of the Medical Faculty, can tell you that we have gold and good children, especially from the interior of the country, who are studying in Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac, who come from southern Serbia, come from western Serbia, who hardly put an end to the end and who deserve their grades, and then at one point do not have the opportunities to be employed precisely because they are not members of some party or are not children of any of a professor who works at that medical school. It is these children who return to some small places such as Sjenica, Ivanjica, Bosilegrad, Vladic's Han. It would be good if they too had a chance in those places to provide health care to their fellow citizens, but unfortunately, in a large percentage, they are slowly leaving Serbia. In the previous session, we had a statement from the previous health ministry that it was good for them to be our ambassadors to the world, that they represent Serbia, Serbian medicine. I didn't get along at the time. I don't agree with you now. If the state, so poor, invests a lot of money in the education of our smartest layer of society, our smartest children, doesn't have that luxury or the richest state to see these kids leave so easily, but to find ways to stop them. This is one of the ways, one start to get these kids interested, to say -- here, I can stay here, I can continue to specialize in some of my specialization, and some four years, this definitive decision is delayed, but we need to give them a chance to know they have a chance, to work on a transparent competition where it won't affect whether he's a member of DS or SNS, but it will affect whether he knows or not. Unfortunately, in Serbia, and Professor Ristic opened the topic several days ago in "Politica", I was one of the conversators in that article who said that poorer quality personnel are entering the KC. I would disagree with his formulation, but I agree that we need to open up the possibility that the best of us are being treated at KC. Clinical centres are the most reference centers, and when you send a patient to Niški KC from southeast Serbia, he has no chance of sending it further, he has to take care of the patient there. When a patient is sent to Belgrade, you no longer have anywhere to send a patient from Belgrade, he must be taken care of there and it is more than necessary for children to work in KC, young doctors to be hired who are the smartest, and we have them, but we turn our backs on them. I also propose that a public competition be made, a transparent competition, not only to be an impact that the average was in college, but also to make a qualification test for each of these receptions, that the media have the opportunity to pass on, that everyone can see this test that a colleague has done, whether he is really smarter than him, whether he is better than he is and that we give the opportunity to really turn our backs on health care policy for the first time in Serbia and say – much more, you can't pressure us, we want the best children to work in our institutions to treat us. One is political belonging, and the other is when someone less capable of putting a scalpel on your head or treating you. We need to have, and we have smart kids, to give them opportunities to educate in our most relevant institutions. When we talk about education and specialization, that's what I suggested to the last minister and the last minister, but that's what's left on the proposal. I am taking the opportunity, you are the third minister to whom I will propose, and that is, since both you and we, both as SNS and DS, are pushing for the EU's accession as soon as possible, once again, I am sending an appeal to coordinate all specializations in Serbia's medical colleges with the European one. Now that's not the case, now it's being avoided. My otorina specialization lasts for four years, and in Europe it takes five years. I don't think they're any dumber in Europe than our children, so they have to learn for five years, but they have a program that's very high-quality and that's more based on practical work that allows a young doctor to go into solo, serious surgical work after completing specialization and subspecies. So, the specialisation programme must be our government's priority, it doesn't matter who runs this government, the goal is the same for us to join the EU and accept some European standards that they have. When I'm talking about medical schools and specializations, I'm going to ask you, I opened the subject via Twitter, no one responded from the media, I'm going to ask you a question here. What is the role of the Faculty of Medicine in Kosovo Mitrovica, that schools fit for Serbia, KIM, the EU, or are they small doors for children who could not pass admission exams in Belgrade, Niška, Kragujevac and Novi Sad Medical Faculty? We teach these doctors there, these doctors may be being made in this one mass that can after that not be employed in Serbia. We're a poor country, we need to understand that we have to rationalize when, we have to realize that we can't waste it that easily. Next question to you, within these same specializations. You have to take charge, I don't know how someone once unfortunately made the Ministry of Education to be competent to medical schools, that the Ministry of Education is giving quotas to medical colleges as much as it can enroll young students. When those quotas are also given, I tell you from experience that I am a witness to many medical schools that they have exceeded that registration quota to take as much money from these self-financed students as possible, to be with the higher salaries of those teachers. So, we need to rationalize and know, if we have more than 2,500 thousand young students, young doctors at the Bureau, and every year we're writing more and more, so we've got to host that one entry policy and we know who we're enrolling in and why we're putting it in and where that kid will then be a doctor, whether he'll be at the desk, whether he'll be at a gas station, like one of my colleagues is selling gas, whether he'll learn German to leave this country and this Serbia. I would return to the problems our Serbian health is facing. In his previous speech, he mentioned that we were evaluated, that we are with a number of parameters, I will say what parameters since he did not mention, that we are according to cardiovascular disease among the first in Europe, that we are at the death rate of myocardial infarction among the first in Europe. Every day in Serbia only from a myocardial infarction, not from cardiovascular diseases, from a myocardial infarction, 15 of our citizens die. That we're the first to suffer from cancer, not just from the head and neck I'm dealing with, but from other organs in our body. So this all shows that we have to pay a lot more attention to prevention. We need to pay much more attention to one more decent behavior and to the doctor, and what I like to say from the health system and the health administration that Mr. Minister has estranged in previous years. She has estranged from the citizens of Serbia, especially the Republic Health Insurance Fund, which has become a state in the country, and even you as a minister is a question of how much ingenuity you have, perhaps politically now you have power and some small possibility you have to put pressure on yourself, but that's your country in the country. With whom money, he commands this money, deploys that money as he will and for 20 years back, this money was spent a little bit by the citizens of Serbia, and the citizens who were sick were also rebuffed, so the citizens had to add money to the text messages of humanitarian actions and everything else, and they did not have the basic right guaranteed by the Constitution, which guarantees them the law when you pay insurance that you have the right to be treated. It's something that's very important. You are announcing the creation of a humanitarian fund, which was also a topic in this Assembly, was also the subject of the Assembly Committee on Health and Family in the previous meeting. I can tell you that we need to find ways and means to cover up as many children as possible. But when we talk about the humanitarian fund behind which the state would stand, I'm against such a fund to stand a state. The state is a country. The state is not an NGO to raise money through humanitarian actions, the state has laws, has parliament, has institutions, has its own fund, is not humanitarian, and this Fund is called the Republic Health Insurance Fund, where the money is collected. The humanitarian funds exist, and the Government of Divac has it, has it Aleksandar Sapic, has it Sergei Trifunović, has Dragica Nikolic, has many celebrities, and we have the Law on humanitarian funds that clearly specify how money is collected. You've sent multiple messages that we will treat children with rare diseases from this fund, that we will treat children who suffer, send them abroad. I would like to remind you that under the regulation on the treatment of citizens of Serbia abroad, the Republic Fund clearly specifies the rights and obligations of the fund and insurance companies and that we have the opportunity to send our citizens abroad. What we should clearly say is that there are some diseases that are not provided for by the regulations of the Republic Fund and that this fund should be for children who are not seen by this Republic Fund. We could say secondly, if I were a minister, I'd find a way to cover a bigger palette through the Republic Fund, so if I went back to one time machine, and you were involved when we started the initiative here in the Parliament for heart transplants and lung transplants abroad, and the Republic Fund and lawyers of the Republic Fund, not management, but the lawyers said the initiative wasn't constitutional. I was then defeated as a doctor to say, when you send someone to a heart or lung transplant, not a constitutional category, and I think that the Constitution clearly says and guarantees our rights as a citizen, as a patient and as a patient, so that around this fund we will get more information and talk about it, but I urge you to enter into a more serious reform of the Republic Health Insurance Fund and this fund is not reformed, it has also alienated those people who are sitting there without much hearing or having no money, I don't know what it is, but some patients have not been allowed to be rejected, some patients and are no longer alive, because they have not adequately responded to the medical profession and have not responded to our insurance houses. These are the topics that, in addition to your reports, where you presented the data to how many healthcare professionals we have in the regions, you provided information that we have a lot of waiting lists. Waiting lists are a topic, are a parameter that evaluated "European health consumer index", but what no one said, it's corruption. It's been a little quiet lately about corruption, and I'm telling you that corruption exists and corruption eats up Serbian society in general, so it hasn't been excluded from health care, but the topic of different tabloids and newspapers is mostly small corruption, or where the doctor takes 250 or 100 euros, and that big corruption that lies in large tenders, in large contracts with pharmaceutical houses, in the great destruction of Galenika as one giant Serbian and former Yugoslavia, pharmaceutical industries, the affair lies in "Torlak", in which the state invested millions of euros, which was a reference to safe vaccines, and it's all said and suddenly shut up. I think these are topics we can't keep quiet about, these are topics we need to clearly open up. A clinical study of some medications, and here at the pay phone, since I have immunity, that's what I'm going to say, I'm interested in delivering the health ministry to the Assembly Committee on Health and Family or to me as an MP, and I have the right to ask, how many new medicines are being examined on Serbian citizens? How many drugs are being studied in France and America, whether Serbian citizens are the only ones or whether there are other peoples, but I am interested in the peoples of the Western countries and American countries, whether some of the medicines being studied in us, are being examined both in America and in Europe. A lot of money goes around these studies, and we need to be aware that this is the first zone of twilight that needs to be more transparent, to see which pharmaceutical house, which medicines, which citizens are subject to these drugs, and whether these same drugs are being checked in France, Germany, Israel or America. I can say that health care as a health care center is opening for the first time today one topic with the education of young doctors and specializations, and I will end it and I will repeat that I expected you to enter with a more detailed reform plan. I can say that I will always support any good proposal that leads to improving the health care of Serbian citizens, support a proposal that makes it easier for young doctors to get a job, but I will not let the demagogy be said, now doctors have the right and opportunity to get a job right now, when there is still a blockade of the Ministry of Finance and let that blockade, and that plan of the network made by G17, which is one of the biggest errors of DS, the release of the self-will of that party in the health sector that has made bad moves where health care is concerned, and when we will be able to get it out on some healthy legs, to say what we do, how we do, and that in this Assembly as soon as you come out with a more detailed plan on new health care, and perhaps before that reform of the Republic Health Insurance Fund that has taken control of the question whether you are listening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7792	Sign up, Minister. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7793	I'll try as many things as I can to answer you. I just wanted to be honest with those kids who are in college, to give them facts that they didn't know, which is how many people are waiting for work at this point, and I can't talk about before, or how long they're going to wait and need to know how many people are enrolled in one year of medical studies. I think it's essential that we tell them what the current situation is, that they can judge for themselves, and see what the perspective is, because those with the greatest enthusiasm get into college and torture, come from where they come from, end it, and then come to the minister and say everything that happened to us is done. We sacrificed ourselves if the state recognized us, put us in the budget, that we did our part, that we needed the state and that we had a job to do. For that reason, and what you said was separate, that we didn't have much influence, I appealed to all the deans of medical schools, if you remember, to sit down, to make data, so it was that I wanted to end people at medical school. The only thing I've asked them to do, sit down, settle down, see what the facts are, what the numbers that are coming to us, to be honest with those kids. I don't want teachers, teachers to be out of work, but between someone having a smaller fund of exercises, lectures, and having children finish, so that they can come and expect nothing, and that you can't give them anything, I'm more likely to be honest with those kids who sacrifice those six years and survive here what they survive from home, come to their parents there, do they have the money to send or don't have one, and then where they're going? They're trying to nostrify, so the Ambassador of Norway is thanking me on a regular basis. Top shots, he regularly invites me to lunch, they don't know how to thank people. We do everything, and we educate people, and they get ready to take over, and they're too happy. Well, is that a logic? If that's logical then we need to tell them in time – children, that's your perspective. Take advantage of the state, study Norway, get a job, get great conditions, I don't know where you're going to work there on some desert island or where, but that's your perspective. That's what I think. It was my appeal to the deans of medical colleges let's get along, let's be realistic, is this number if we have over 2,500 doctors waiting and we're going to hire these people, because we have these people who retire, we have people who go abroad, we have an age limit that's inevitably going on. As far as the finance ministry is concerned, I really don't expect anyone to say, you know, we don't have the means to treat ourselves. I mean, I really don't want to believe that. That was the only reason. We put over 1,000 people a year, and we have 2,500 thousand waiting for work. Are we hiding something? Let's give it all away. Did we go out with the waiting lists? We're going out with everything. Here, now I've told you, all this data, not just to you, to deliver to everyone how much we do in these clinical studies, what are we looking at? I don't know, I don't see any reason to hide in there and compare it to all the countries. There's no problem. As for the frame, I'm betting on what started from the emergency center and everything, in order for someone to get a job, there's got to be a commission to work with. I am absolutely directors and all of them to go to the competition, but tell me one thing, how many in Nis and anywhere in Belgrade do you have people volunteer for how many years? How many years do people volunteer? And when you tell them they can't volunteer anymore, no, they keep coming. Tell me, what are we going to do with these people? Come on, what do you say to them in Nis when he comes to you at the clinic you say - there's no room, there's no room; he says, "I want to do it for nothing, I want to do it, I want to do it, I want to do it, I want to do it, I want to do it, I want to be in the profession, I want to be in the profession, and I want to be in the rest of it; and that's because he's been through the gogoth." Negative selection, let's not talk about it, let's not go in, we all know that. Let's not pretend we don't know anything like that now. Work results. You can't have any results without IT. If you don't have an insight, I'll tell you now, if we don't bring IT into the information system by the end of 2015, in the entire Serbian health system, there's nothing from this job. If you can't get in and see who's doing what he's doing, how much he's doing, what his results are, what his consumption is, what it's spending, where it's being spent, to be extremely transparent, this system can't work, here I'm telling you right now. The deadline is 2015. Do you know how much money was spent on all this? How many millions, tens of millions, not to say hundreds of millions for IT. How was it done? It's done by using five components, three components are funded, three components are made, but without these two can't do, and they're all satisfied. We have an excuse for these three components, these two aren't even running, and there's no funds for them. It's all over, but the systems and results are gone. It can't work if you don't know where, who does what. What are the results, how? Manually? To go from hospital to hospital, from home of health to home of health? That's impossible. Let's get this straight with the fund. Don't underestimate him or overestimate him. The fund. What's a trust fund? Health care service, one service service, so it'll be nothing more. They don't share the money in their pocket, it's the money of Serbian citizens. What fund? How's the bauk fund? What's the fund gonna do about it? Where's he going? It can only work how Serbia and the state of Serbia's health system works. What are you going to do? Things have to be put in place and known where the place is. That's it. As for Galenika, I think that "Gallenika" can work top-notch, and I think it's a good thing that Galenika came out on this tender that it's offered for sale, and I'm sure if anyone shows up to buy it, it'll make Galenika the top results with which we'll be able to be proud, it won't be on the burden of the state. ‘Torlak’. Really, it's negotiated, there are no satisfactory offers, there's an impression in the public that he doesn't invest in it to sell himself cheaper and so on, that's an impression. I'm not to sell the "Torlak", I'll tell you right now. So if someone was among the five in the world with a minority strategic partner, that is, with someone who would invest money to recover the production of the vaccine, Torak would quickly return to a serious company. I don't know if I'm among the five in the world, but that's what I'm saying, that's my opinion, I'm not going to sell the Tolak. The fund. The fund will go to the government today. What's the state for? The state will be guaranteed that the fund will not be in a position to come home without funds. What does the fund mean? What you said, what doesn't cover the RFO. How many such people that appear to you and to me and to anyone who is not recognized in the system, and the word itself says "rare diseases" and we're involved in a fund, it goes for rare diseases, but we'll come back to the constitution again, you can't make that discrimination between children and adults. We say in time – it will be a fund for children of rare diseases and all that the health system cannot do, has no capacity to do, to diagnose and heal. We're not going to send people abroad right away. We'll have people, experts from abroad come here. It's much cheaper and much more favourable. The children stay at home with their loved ones, there is no cost of travel, there is no cost of accommodation, there is no cost of food, there are, speak their language, translate them, it is much easier for them to go. It's only when we've exhausted all of this, and we have a consult today is the 21st century, with all the foreign experts telling us what they think, what we can do here, what we're going to do with them and where we're going to do. Trust must be restored. You can't do this anymore. No one will ever give for these funds again when this sort of thing happens. The fund must know every penny that came in, where every penny was spent, how much it costs to treat where some poor kid found himself being helped, and every day it has to be updated. A great help comes from Fund B92, or Veran Matic, their experience. You are involved in this fund - interested people, professions, organizations, parents of children with rare diseases, prominent personalities. There's no reason to hide anything. Therefore, the only thing I can tell you while I'm at this head, you'll need to know where every dinar was spent from the Ministry of Health. In my opinion, it's the only basis for this corruption and for what we're talking about, to know every penny where it's spent, to get an answer to every question and everything to be extremely transparent. You can't say – this is good, this isn't good, you could do this cheaper, you could do this better, you could do this like this, but you'll see right away. In my opinion, that's a condition so we can move on. As for the party and all this, I think everyone could see. There are certain coordinators, that the profession is run by the Fund. I don't think you have anyone from any party here. They're people who are now in charge of each and every one of their own professions. This one's for neurology, this one's for internals. Ask them. They are responsible for all of Serbia for their territory. That's why they're here, not just to be called, but they have a responsibility to what they've done. One man can't do everything. Without the cooperation of doctors, patients and everyone, we can't get better. That's not gonna happen. If we're going to wage wars between each other, the patients will have no use. This isn't a shooting thing. Are we the last ones? We are, that's a fact. Come on, Mr. Arnie, help, here's a challenge for you. Here, it's been 10 days in Belgrade. I assure him, this is a challenge for you, show that something can move from the last place. There he is, all day long at the Fund and at the Institute of Batut, both in clinics and hospitals, everywhere. Here, make sure you guys get things right. Do you have any suggestions? Let's work. Here, you move this out of the back. Help her move out of the back. These people are looking at me and they can't believe it. It's not the Arnie they're talking about. There's been a man in Belgrade for 10 days. Tell me what else. The responsibility will be mine. Nothing is disputed, I'll be guilty of everything, but we're all gonna have to tell our kids what we did, what our result is, to explain to the kids that we talked and that we referred and that we suggested and that we did everything... He'll ask you a child - good, and the result? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7794	Mr. Milisavljevic came to the floor. Just tell me on what basis you want the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7795	The minister has spoken to me several times.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7796	It's not a name or a last name, only if he's misread you somewhere. You have to explain in two minutes what's wrong with you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7797	He asked me a personal question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7798	Let me finish my sentence. I ask the MPs to allow the sentence to be completed. You have to interpret, now that I give you my word, two minutes per article 104, where he misread your exposure. You have two minutes. I'm saying, it's nothing offensive, he didn't mention the party, he didn't name it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7799	Dear President, I've already been given a third term in the assembly and I've never had a single insult from a government official, nor have I referred to it, so this time it was no offense...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7800	So you admit you don't have a basis for replication?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7801	No offense, just one wish, since Mr. Secretary has repeatedly asked me for a finding and said I didn't say it correctly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7802	Yeah, two minutes, just explain what the misunderstanding was.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7803	Thank you. Dear Minister, as for the Fund, when you said the Fund, I would tell you that we really need to reform that Republic Health Insurance Fund, because this fund is more unsustainable. He no longer protects the interests of Serbian citizens. What I would suggest to you is that clearly the citizen is paid 50 to 100 euros a month or 10,000 to 12,000 dinars for that health insurance, that they know clearly what they have to do with their health book, that they know they can go to both state and private doctors. So we need to tell what this fund is financing and what this fund is offering to the insurance company. I'd like to introduce another fund. I'd like to introduce a competition between the insurance companies. I'd like to introduce two or three more insurance houses that would be competing to get you and me to a good health care facility, to have good care at the Emergency Centre or at the Clinical Center in Nis where there are good doctors. It's a reform, that you're competent to make insurance houses fight for an insurance company, not that they know that they have that inflow monthly, and from that inflow whether you control them or not, that's a different story.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7804	You're out of time, two minutes and 14 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7805	You took my minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7806	Fourteen seconds, I'm over it. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: fifty-seven seconds. I can barely hear you without a microphone and a toss. I'm really trying to be a part of the debate, but in a way that I understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7807	Dear President, I ask you, since we are having a discussion in one appropriate and parliamentary tone, just two more sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7808	I know, that's how every MP will do it, but okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7809	I'm interested, given that you mentioned Mr. Bjernberg was here in Nis for 10 days, and that he's examining health systems from European countries, is he...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7810	Thank you. Three minutes. Be a little collegiate to the chairman, too. Thank you. Minister, we're not really getting into controversy. This will come out of the context of allowing other MPs to say and participate in the debate. She's throwing Jerkov out of town. Come in, pick up the word. Report on some basis. Throwing it, that's the same thing. What's the base of the pitch? Where does it say MPs can get the chairman? The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7811	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will speak from the point of view of someone who is, say, a potential patient or an ordinary citizen, I am not a doctor. The doctors used to talk here most of the time. On behalf of the Social Democrats League MP I would just like to point out that we believe that this law was to be changed in many more members, but today it is the subject of this 184 member who has been simplified as a need and the intention to create in a accelerated way an army of new specialists, to shorten it in the process and to get something that we lack, or which is not maintained as a continuity of education of new experts. I want to use this time to show what kind of health care is in Vojvodina, and that might best paint one headline in a newspaper that says – waiting in lines for the transparent weary appliances. It's a rough picture in one sentence. In fact, somewhere in March of this year, a patient posted a video of some 600 people waiting in the yard of Vojvodina’s Clinical Center for an appointment with an ophthalmologist. According to some estimates in Vojvodina, and I see that it is much wider, there are about 13 waiting lists for different health services, from reviews, diagnostics, operations etc. The longest waits, we've heard it here, but I'll repeat, for cataract surgery, hip, cardiology, magnetic resonance, etc. In the ranks are also waiting in health care homes for examinations by specialists. This is what we've heard from more colleagues here, and it's because there's been insufficient investment and inadequate planning of a health care system. I repeat that the Health Protection Act needs to be changed much more widely. One of the reasons we've been waiting like this, and we've seen it today as a confirmation, is the lack of medical personnel. We've seen and heard, but I'll repeat, most pediatricians in Serbia, and so in Vojvodina are retired, there's not enough anesthesiologist, cardiologist, etc. According to a statement by the director of the medical chamber of Serbia that I had the opportunity to hear somewhere in the spring, she said that in other areas of medicine these problems will arise, as 60 to 70% of doctors of all specialist branches, in one five to eight years, will retire. The whole situation is further complicated by the ban on public sector employment, which came into force on 1 January this year. Unfortunately, it was not about specificity when it comes to health care and the needs of vital importance for the population, this particular area, and that it cannot be treated as any other administration or other public sector, where, for example, the lack of 10 employees would not have felt it. Unfortunately, in health care it is not so, and again whoever suffers – suffers patients. We have examples that because of retirement or lack of doctors, we have difficult work to do. For example, it was forbidden to work at a foster home in Ruma, we had a difficult work of pediatrics in Vrsac. Special features are small environments, i.e. rural areas in Vojvodina, where you in many of the villages in Vojvodina have shut down hospitals, where even medical apartments used to exist, so the doctor lived with family and citizens, or residents of these villages could also go out of business to address the doctor and feel certain that at any moment they would have medical protection. Unfortunately, that's not the case now. For example, in the municipality of Zitiste at this moment, which consists of 12 settlements, the towns of Međa and Hetin are looking for a doctor, so far they only have once a week. To put it black-humbled, happiness is for a patient if he gets sick the day the doctor is in place, or when he's in the infirmary, so he can get a doctor's service right away, but if he isn't, then he has to travel a few dozen miles away. If it is taken into account that they are a wave of rural environments in which unfortunately the elderly live, because the young nearly all went away or very few remained, it is even more complicated, because normally in mature years people need more medical services and then they should travel to another place, pensions are small or even not at all, they should pay for the bus ticket. These are specificities that, when it comes to a network of medical institutions, must or must be taken into account. The numbers are talking, we've heard how many doctors there are on the patient list here. I'd turn the number around. The data I have on me says 345 patients come to a doctor on average in Serbia. There's this picture of a mountain in Vojvodina. That's about 400 patients on one doctor. We've seen, even in this explanation, that it's different when it comes to the territorial deployment of doctors, so let's say the worst situation in Vojvodina is in Srem, where there are about 550 patients on one doctor, and there are local self-governments that are even worse, I'm talking only about the situation in Vojvodina, about 900 patients, like the Temerin case. That's all the alarming data. If we keep in mind that the average age in Serbia, or Vojvodina, is about 40 years, if we keep saying that there is a white plague, if young people are leaving us, if by 10 years between the two censuses, the population of Vojvodina, for example, has been reduced by nearly 5%, then this kind of data has to worry us, the impression that they will be able to treat, not only the impression, unfortunately, is the fact, only those who have money. If a reduction in wages and pensions is also announced, then it is really a state of concern and it is no wonder that the condition is getting worse when it comes to cardio-vascular disease or diabetes. If you're being advertised on TV by a machine that's just gonna take your sugar off at 20 to a much lower value, I'm not a doctor, I repeat, but it looks like someone who's a patient, don't give God a patient, and it uses medical services. A particular problem with Vojvodina, I think, is that this is a broader case, is the condition of the apparatus that exists in hospitals and other institutions, which are broken down because of age, where these appliances are not being restarted as they should be. As the most drastic example, I would like to list radiation devices that are not enough or old and often break down, and patients with such severe diseases can't wait, so the patients from Vojvodina are sent for radiation to Kladovo or Kragujevac. In the world, appliances change to about seven years of use, no matter how much they're used, and we're dealing with machines that are 13 years old, so it's normal to break down often. It's one of the reasons for creating lines like this. If it is considered that Vojvodina covers 27% of Serbia's population, according to some world standards, there should be eight such radiation devices. There are only two of them now, and three appliances funded by the Vojvodina Government are in the process. However, there are problems with the implementation of tender procedures. From what I hear, that's where the tenders are shot down. That's not what I want to get into, why, when, how many times, tenders are repeated, and in the meantime, patients suffer because of the unimplemented procurement procedure of apparatus or consumable material or anything else that is subject to procurement through a tender. It should be accessed differently in the field of medical procurement, in order to ensure continuity when it comes to therapy or other medical services. It is important to stress that Serbia's health system is centralised, one of the main causes of most of the problems that have hit this area. In the RZO everything is concentrated, and money, and jobs being carried out in health care. We believe, no matter how much we welcome the adoption of such a supplement to the law, or the possibility, of providing for an accelerated education of staff, that this proposal needs to be corrected. With that in mind, we've submitted amendments. These are amendments concerning the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina in this area, i.e. to ensure the participation of the AP Vojvodina in the process of granting consent to specialisations and rope specialisations, since there is no minimum information in this area now on what specialisations are approved and in which institutions in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The whole process is conducted between health institutions established in Vojvodina and the Ministry. The AP Vojvodina organ can't affect that. In the light of the amendment, we have just mentioned, on the basis of the Law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, that these amendments may be adopted. Finally, on Vote Day, depending on whether our amendment will be adopted, we will determine whether we will vote for this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7812	Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7813	Dear Presidents, respected ministers and co-workers from the Ministry of Health, colleagues and fellow MPs, our parliamentary club has been taking serious care of the analysis of the health system and the proposed legal changes to the basic health care law. We estimate that the reform character of the amendments to this law is viewed as being in a huge proportion of health needs and financial resources. In fact, at this point, you have to go to those measures that don't require new funding. What does that mean for, I agree with many of the most qualified professional personnel of this country, dentists, pharmacists, doctors? This means that for those who are in a regular working relationship there will be no time limit to perfecting themselves, and we remind that professional training of the obligations of both institutions and of each individual and that the end-user, our patient, will actually benefit most from that. That is why this bill of law with the MPs of our Parliament club, and also in the Committee on Health, came across one optimism, a model that can be done without money, which is that the most professional people, it is obvious that it is about younger people, should improve the professional structure in the health system and thus enable our user, our patient, all of us, because we are all in need and we are educated on the subject of health care and that some health problem is being diagnosed early, that we are being treated, that we are subject to certain rehabilitation procedures. So the law may concern more than any man living in this country, and that is why its value is particularly significant. The government's position to send these laws to parliament is actually visionary and shows that we can start solving problems separately, but quality. The fact is that the law will be applied and the reason is that the sublaw will be passed by the end of this year, that it will be applied practically to every health institution and private practice and to a network of health institutions belonging to so-called health institutions. State Health. This means that every dentist, every pharmacist, every doctor who passed a professional exam and completed an internship should make a contract with a health institution, or should have a contract with a founder in private practice, and this is a step further in equating conditions for the professional training of all people in this country and expanding a network of health institutions that can potentially provide health services to our citizens. So, every laboratory, or every pharmaceutical facility, every home of health, general hospital, special hospital, that we don't talk about tertiary and health institutions in which scientific research is performed and which have specific institutional characteristics of work, will have the opportunity to renew their ability. We have seen that some segments of our health system, especially when it comes to paediatric needs, are extremely, extremely significant. How will this process go, and why do I think the responsibility of more people in the application of this law is increasing? The decision that a medical institution needs a sub-species or specialist shall be made by the Director. He will have to have quite a strong communication with institutions that we haven't used in the health system, with regional health institutions. According to these plans, which means the director, the management of each health care institution needs to look into its needs, will see how it will organize the service and work to perfect individuals. The ministry's consent will certainly be the next step, but the minister will have one significant part of the obligations. By 31 December each year, the minister will see what deficit specialities are and what is important for unemployed doctors, dentists and pharmacists will be a chance. This will be the most common among volunteers who have truly shown their hard work, who have shown by the fact that they are fostering the profession even when they do not receive any material satisfactory attachment to this work. They will certainly be of the greatest advantage, but I think it's very important that we have to rely on mentors from the environment that actually send people to specialization. What was the practical problem and what was happening and when we approved 1,700 specializations in the previous period? How am I supposed to send him to a specialist, when his work at my facility has no one to do it? You know, in these institutions there are very competent people who are mentors and this doctor or dentist except for that period he spends in medical schools and listens to certain theoretical classes most often carried out in his or her medical institution that is nearby. There, health directors, directors will have to show one readiness for a better organisation. That is why, I would say, this way of thinking on a legislative plan and a way to make the directors of health institutions creative and binding to give more than themselves, not always waiting for someone to send them suggestions on how they will do it, who they will send, whom they will choose and increase the level of responsibility of an unmatched number of people and primary health care and general hospitals and physical hospital centres and health care institutes bring one of the greater practical purposes. The law essentially treats the resources of the people who are most important in the triad that we have all mentioned many times today, space, equipment, personnel. Without it, there's no health care. We know a lot about space and equipment, we've talked about a lot in different ways, but this human resource, which is truly the greatest capital and we can be proud of, regardless of the individual cases that sometimes degrade the work of a huge number of people, the SPS group yesterday found that 126,288 people should say that for a period of transition, thank you very much for taking care of patients' health care and developing prevention in a way that was often not in line with the material status and stimulation that otherwise experts in the world have, and health and non-health workers, among them 22,000 doctors in over 98 cases have responded to a human, professional call, and therefore we have found that this law would just be one form of gratitude to them, the most educated staff who will no longer wait for years because it was not only legal two years. It's been waiting for a specialization so long that someone until they get a specialization, until they're done, until they pass the exam, and then in practice they start learning from their colleagues how they're going to apply those skills to the average of 48 or 50 years, and then only ten years till 15. Surgical disciplines for up to 60 years must be excluded from the first line of operatives and surgeons. Very little remains the opportunity to do his high professional work. Management of human resources, which is the subject of these laws, is part of the formulation of policy and human development. He should come from the needs of the health system and what is on all of us, including those who will participate in the adoption of other laws, is that we look at the needs of the health system realistically. A lot of this has been done on the educational plan in terms of informing citizens about scrinnings, about mass diseases, but this health gate, primary health care where 80% of citizens should have their medical service cannot have some secondary team of doctors. I don't agree that the highest-quality doctors need to work we're in top-level institutions. Doctors always do their job best, and whether one tonsilektonia, the tonsilect operation will work in Piroth, Kragujevac or Belgrade, professional attitudes and postulates must be exactly the same, and the expertise of doctors must be exactly the same. The highest-quality people need to work on every health team. The truth is that health care levels need to be different and that we can't do everything in smaller and larger environments and where there are frames and where there isn't. When you ask a question, for example. We need to know that it's not just a joke and it's not just equipment. Who's gonna do that? Do we have a frame? These deficit specialities, which will be declared by 31 December of each year and which will give young people the opportunity to perfect themselves, should, in fact, be primarily deployed at the top of the pyramid of health institutions, in clinical centres dealing with therapeutic health care, and this must be done in Serbia, which is unfortunately not large, in Belgrade, anything that can be done in Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac. You don't have to do the highest, most subtle medicine in every place. But what is done anywhere must be done exactly the same with the same professional capacities, respect for human rights, expertise and all parameters that we can measure very well. The primary health care is most often, unfortunately, a channel for reference to secondary and tertiary health institutions. If this law applies well and we take care of the professional structure of employees, we will also be able to raise prevention programs to a higher level, because a significant part of preventive activities should actually be moved to a health home. It is not good for a doctor, and the doctor is most often the person who was the best student in her high school, the most respected man in her family, the wider family, to write instructions for a colleague who only works in another institution when he graduates. He needs to be trained through skills to do most of the work together. Skills are actually specialization and subspecialization. But that doesn't mean that one home of health will need 10 endocrinologists. He won't need a vascular surgeon. You know what it is that needs a home of health. First of all, he needs a well-educated general medical specialist and a number of other specialties. Since much has been said that, thanks to the health care professionals’ expertise, health care levels have been raised and the parameters are, among other things, a positive reduction in neonatal mortality, an extension of life, therefore, thanks to healthcare professionals for making sure that they have invested themselves and made a huge contribution to making these parameters positive, it is not bad to remind ourselves that older age and stimulation of birth require special profiles of healthcare. Hence, the older life span brings some more recent diseases and has requirements for some new organisational schemes, including palitative care. Today, cardiovascular diseases, malignancies, diabetes, hypertension, risk management were mentioned. I would simply like to remind the public that the World Health Organization has come up with one parameter: by 2020 another factor in incapacitation for work, after cardiovascular diseases, will be depression. So we have a soul and we have to remember a little bit that when doctors, and even when we go as patients to medical institutions, that unity of the body and soul is something that requires education and professional staff and ourselves. What I think is important is that international experiences and standards should affect us to bring our own standards and we have teams that can do it. I think it's time to change some standards a little bit, and in some future period, the initiative needs to come from those who are directly involved in the production of health, informing health parameters that are important for a better life and the quality of life of a nation. The consistent application of the regulations that we have adopted is one way to show that we really, as a society, mature, and in the domain of health, it seems to me that this can be done in the best way. For example, in 2004, the number of unspecified working hours in Serbia's healthcare facilities amounted to 120,000, and today, 113,000. This means that the health care still had in mind all the instructions of the government and the appeal that it had to go down. What parameter isn't good in the health system at this point? In fact, 24% of the employees are nonmedical professions. This is something that is very bad for European parameters. Our friends and associates also tell us that it's not good, but what about the people who spent their entire working life in some nuthouse or some laundry room? We can't really say – well, we have to change the structure and you and your family aren't interested. That's why it's the responsibility of the director of health care institutions that when these people who deal with technical, administrative affairs, they retire and are no longer in the health care system, we repair the structure primarily for nurses who are actually the soul of the health system. The care of patients in tertiary and secondary health care institutions is sometimes very stingy. But most often, it is not because it is irresponsible, but simply it is not enough and the parameters of which the Ministry has provided us and of which the minister has said something. Indicators of security of the Republic of Serbia and the EU average regarding the number of doctors, on several occasions we heard today, say that we are where the EU was in 2004, to 100,000 residents of those 307 doctors. The number would not be alarming, especially if the number of doctors per 100,000 population in Serbia is compared to the countries in the region. Below us is Hungary and Croatia and Romania and Montenegro and BiH and Turkey and Albania, but far ahead of us in this EU country, Austria, Germany in particular, so France and Germany have particularly good parameters. Also another segment that has been said about, which is within the scope of all of us, and also MPs, because we are elected representatives of citizens, it is a segment that the parameters on which we conclude what our health care is are quite illustrative. If there are 424 doctors in the Nishav district of 100,000 people, and in Srem 209, does this perhaps mean that all of us who are from certain backgrounds are sent here to work on the legislative plan did not have enough influence through the acts that we have brought to balance one even regional development or perhaps colleagues from Vojvodina should ask themselves why such big differences within the region itself? So both issues are a question for us that citizens have sent to think on a legislative plan much wider than one environment, but they are good indicators of how to think differently in the next period. Security to doctors is relatively solid, and the application of this law will provide expertise in a way that we Anticipate that in a few years we really wouldn't have certain specialities and subspecies. Strategic planning of personnel in the healthcare system is certain to be related to funding, but coordination of the health education system and labour markets must have a health policy as its postulate, because if the community of medical universities, and the minister talked about it, through the admission policy, continues to produce the same number of completed students of medicine, dentistry and pharmacies, this will be a palatable measure that is good for the near future, but for the future we will face similar problems. For the reasons that I have said and for reasons that I will not repeat, because the other colleagues have spoken very correctly about it, our parliamentary club will be very pleased to say yes in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7814	Thank you, MPs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. I'm setting a break after we've finished our authorised representatives by 2:15 p.m. and we're moving on to the list. Otherwise, we won't be in direct transmission, but we'll go in delayed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7815	We're going back to work. Do any of the other representatives of the promoter come forward for a word if we don't go through the list? The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7816	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Mr. Minister is truly looking forward to the information that you yourself were the initiator of this decision from the beginning of this term of office. The decision is very important for me to tell us young doctors, even though I'm already on specialization, but I know how much it means to young people, to young doctors and to our brand at all. Of course, I see this as the beginning of a serious reform that I'm sure you'll get into, because it's really necessary, and there's a lot of problems. Also, I am pleased to hear from the Assembly Committee on Health, the Honorable Professor Vekic that there is also a serious reform and change in the level of primary health care and that primary health care, i.e. general practice, will relieve enormous administrative pressure. It is clear that the key to good health care and good health response is actually quality, primary health care, and I can tell you since I worked long as a doctor of general practice to give us about 50 reviews a day most of it was administrative. So that this domain and this sector, or the regulation of this sector, can indeed lead to an improvement in health care, to dampen practically the stopper that we have in secondary and therapeutic health care and to improve the health response. What to say is that in addition to health homes, the central place in primary health care also has public health institutions. I have to remind you that last month I gave you a question and a few suggestions, I don't know if there's any other question about you, about the inevitability and obligation to form a Public Health Institute in New Market. You know that in January 2012, the government made a decision to form one of these institutions for the Tutin Municipality and Novi Pazar, that the city of 2009 entered into a serious process of preparation, that it had done an elaborate, that the city had given to use and certain rooms that are very favourable, which have a special entrance, so I also suggested that the next budget and the sum of five million dinars for rehabilitation and preparation of that space were provided by the military during NATO bombing. In any case, I want to point out to you, and you certainly know that, since I saw in your biography that you are also engaged in epidemiology, that this is a crucial issue for better organisation of health care in the Sandzak region, that is, the New Pazar and Tutin. We don't have quality statistics, we don't have quality screening, so the importance of this institution is really huge for us. That's what I'd like to give you a real invitation to start this institution in Novi Pazar as soon as possible. I must say, if we had an offer last year, we had a program from the Czech Development Agency of 100,000 euros that would provide a complete laboratory. So money's not a problem. At that moment, we couldn't do it exactly for the reason we didn't have that institute formed. In the end, I have to say that there are a lot of high-quality, professional personnel in the town of Novi Pazar, and we have some equipment from the last Hygiene Institute, and I really think with a small investment that we can make serious shifts in the city as far as health care is concerned. On the other hand, you know that the town of Novi Pazar doesn't have its own angel hall, or our hospital, and we had a visit to our call to Mr. Miljko Ristić about six months ago, as director of the clinical center, and we entered some consultations. We invited the director of the hospital and interns and radiologists, cardiologists who normally deal with this problem, and we came to the conclusion that it was absolutely necessary to plan this institution, start training, and certainly we can't form a cardio-surgery hall with an angio room, which was the general conclusion professional was at that point. I think we'll come across one understanding. I hope with constant contact and opportunity that this plan of ours and this is already something that we announced to solve and improve really health response and health care in Sandzak. I have to say what's obvious is that the only city in New Pazar isn't provided with those two golden hours of coming to the first Angel Hall and that's a really terrible thing, not even to say against the constitutionals. So, only the city of Novi Pazar can't get to the Angel Hall in Kragujevac. That can't happen. All other parts of Serbia have that and I think that we need to get into one planning, into the strategic planning of it, and to practically implement these plans and this task of ours. Of course, that what we are doing today is extremely important, we should not allow young people to wait for a second, not one day to learn something new, especially not in medicine, and so far this two-year-old waiting institute that really doesn't exist anywhere in the West. There is no such thing in Western serious medical institutions, and I truly support and welcome this decision and this amendment to this article. Also, including a private sector where I really believe there is serious potential both in equipment and in the people, we can also, by giving these, as we say, volunteer specializations really support this branch and put it in full function to serve health care in our country. I said that I'm specializing, and I can really say that our program is relatively high quality, that thanks to the enthusiasm of certain professors, we're learning a lot, but we have to do a lot of work on this educational structure, especially in specializations and give more space to the skills than to the knowledge of theoretical. It must not be allowed for a finished intern to not know how to make an ultra sound and not to be allowed to be subsequently and through paying specialisation, doctors must pay additionally that possibility to practically learn the ultrasound that today is the first method in the diagnosis of serious acute conditions. I think you'll have a lot of work to do, I know you're a young man, and I know that, from your biography, I can see that you're really going to make an effort to count on serious shifts. We also have a serious problem in medical education. The very educational processes that we are practically, that we are conducting and that we are attending in terms of continuous medical education, I don't think they have any significant weight and I don't think they're professionally increasing our knowledge. What is my proposal, and what is my proposal for most professors is to allow us from smaller backgrounds, for us who want to rule all the information, for a certain period of time and for the completion of our specialization to have several weeks in territorial institutions, to get to know the state of the teachers and people we normally send these patients to, and I think that this is a much better way of improving our knowledge and skills that we are practically providing better services than this way we have now and which is, I can say, in which there is a lot of empty walking, we listen and collect practical points, we may never listen to things that we will never deal with or have absolutely nothing to do with our practice. I must say that, especially you as a minister, you should support a positive campaign on the image of a doctor. Corruption is there, but believe me, it's a very small part of the quality, serious altruistic doctors, who really devote their whole lives to human calling and providing really help, with, I can safely say, a modest compensation that they can cover some of their basic costs. I think in this society, first of all, we need more positive examples of positive doctors than critics, since there are indeed many more good, polite, quality personnel than those who abuse their authority and their work. The government's plan, as well as the SDP within it, is to deal with the crucial and vital issues of people, citizens, the most fundamental things that can be solved. By weighting this system as we have, by reforming what we can do in this way, without using a great deal of extra costs, it's really the way we have to go, which we have to provide a service. I think that by establishing this institution in Novi Pazar and planning and developing an angio-hall, cardio-surgery hall and other branches, this government and you as Minister are directly sending a message that you are thinking and providing help to the citizens of Sandzak, as well as to the whole of our country. I think you're doing it the right way. The Social Democratic Party will support this decision. The Social Democratic Party in a constant consultation with the people will support any positive reform. The Social Democratic Party and the people we come from Sandzak will not lie to our voters in some unsuspecting and incomprehensible issues, the type of autonomy, but we will certainly solve the crucial issues that affect our people and which we can solve. So I invite you to really come out and help us out on this trip.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7817	The word has a minister in the government, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7818	Since I'm trying to work out important things here, you've mentioned an extremely important thing here, which is an angelic joke and cardiosurgery and a "Golden Clock". I'm only asking you for one thing at this time, and that's that, since you said yourself that money won't be a problem, don't get into another problem, get an angio room next year and get cardiosurgery, and you don't have any staff and it stands out that it doesn't work. You're already late if you didn't send people to dress for it, because it won't have any purpose. When you don't have a problem with money, and you have the support of the ministry, and we recognize the problem, for I don't know what reason, because we simply can't respect one of the principles that we talked about, about this "Golden Hour", be not so much a visionary, but go right now, my advice is to train people for both the Angel Hall and cardio surgery, because I don't see any problem that doesn't happen next year, but I see a problem if it all comes in, and there's no one to do it, and then you go out to tell us now, give us the personnel here, let us help, let us work once a week, twice a week. One more thing please, you've listed a lot of things. Be realistic, do those things what you can in what year for the next five years to do. It can't be done all of a sudden. Let's make this a priority. We made a deal for the Bureau. Make arrangements for all other things. You say you have money, you have investments, you have everything. At the Ministry of Health, you won't have a problem, no obstruction, just top-level help, but once again, please prepare your personnel on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7819	Thank you. The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic has the word, and let the People's MP Marijan Rističević be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7820	The situation in Serbian health is very bad and it is a common known thing and there is no need to repeat all details of the description of the situation. We've heard that we're the last in Europe and waiting lists. Of course, it's not just the last government, not this one from a hundred and a few days ago, not this one from 700 and a few days ago. It's an abandoned system for a very long time without any great desire to make some serious reforms. The previous ministers had some good and many bad ideas and managed to wave these bad ideas and keep the good ones on the side. This palatable amendment of one member of this Health Protection Act will come under the support of the New Party MPs if an amendment is adopted that further liberalises the possibility of a doctor entering a specialisation at their expense and ending those specializations that are deficiting, without the arbitration of the minister and of someone else, because there is no need to get involved, whether we need any specialists or not, anyone in this country. Being a specialist doesn't guarantee him a job, but only gets that knowledge, skill and calling, and he can hire a private clinic or go abroad, but it's totally pointless for a doctor's mass to sit on a desk without being able to maybe have his own potential financially to specialize. Our system's out of date by all standards. Wherever you touch in any part of your health, you'll find something that looks more like the XIX century than the 21st century. There's a lot of reasons for that. I don't want to get into those reasons before. I'm not accusing anyone, or accusing anyone who's been in this business for the last 50 years. What should have been expected of the new government is that, in her own words, she wants to introduce reforms and change a lot. Nothing important has changed. By bringing a sick child into a plane that needs to be taken to a place of treatment, the health minister is a ton of reform. It's abuse. The parent's job is to take care of their child in such a way, and the minister's job is to create conditions for treating a child not to be a question of the goodwill of SMS subscribers and not to be part of an election or post-election campaign, but to be one completely normal thing. We don't need a special fund to treat children. From an existing fund, as long as it exists, it must be provided. This can't be secured by taking over 250m euros from the Health Fund a few months ago to patch up holes in the pension fund. This, of course, has not provided any lengthy security for pension payments. The lack of 250m euros in the Health Fund, I think it's obvious every day. Anyone who doesn't see it, he doesn't live in this country. Reforms mean doing a lot of things that, I think, can be done without some big pomp and bring great benefits. The first step is, let's say, to combine military and civil health. There is no reason, no specificity of military and civil health. When war, not God, we're all military health. When there's peace, there's no need for military health. Shooting is more common on rafts across the Danube and Sava than in military facilities and military polygons. So let's act rationally. Military health left several hundred thousand square metres of empty hospital space, as it was designed for half a million active and passive military personnel who were in Serbia 30 years ago. Today, there are 100,000 of them in total with the pensioners. That means five times less. There's no need for any money to be invested in any brick to build military facilities, because they exist with the moss next to civil health facilities. For example, Nis is a typical example. Between the clinical center and the military hospital is just an emergency center. Once again, 20m euros are thrown into bricks and claws instead of in education, medicine, equipment, to create a new building that someone will open, to cut that tape and remain empty, as is the case with an emergency centre that has been empty for thirty and a few years, and besides, the military hospital that is otherwise empty because of that, as I said, does not have enough patients. It's a thing that can be solved quickly. Private health care should give him a chance to get it in a normal market competition, an opportunity to help Serbian citizens get a better level of health care. The existing system, Bismark's health care system should be changed to a system known as the Beverage system. I hope the people of the Ministry know what that means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7821	The word has a minister in the government, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7822	This is a great idea for people, if they will, to have the opportunity to go to specialization. I just need to let you know one thing, which is that we don't have the capacity to receive all those people at the first minute. So we talked to colleges. At first moment, we'll barely have this number that we're missing for state institutions. That's a good suggestion, but we have to create conditions that we have the capacity to get these people through what they need to go through to become... It's a perfectly legitimate right for someone who has money to go to school and work, to pay for it. That's fine by me. Keep in mind that at this point, we were thinking about it and we wanted to do it, we don't have the capacity in colleges, in the cathedrals, because it was a great rush and the quality of knowledge they would have acquired would not be good, nor would it be according to EU regulations. Unfortunately, I'd like to ask you what we'd do when a father needs to... He had a desire to take his child on a plane. My father got sick, passed out. It's the only reason, so it's not planned or desired. We stood by the father, the mother, and him beside that child. If you saw, that father, after he passed out, couldn't even travel with his child, so you wouldn't say it was marketing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7823	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. Here you go. Please, Mr. Zivkovic, I'm watching closely who's looking for the alleged replica. [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: First I asked for a replica.]] You mentioned that someone stole from the Health Services Fund 250m euros and transferred it to the Pension Fund. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: What does this have to do with it? ) Since the president of the parliamentary club, who supports the RS government and who voted in favour of such a bill, is likely to have the right to answer to you. We don't want to compromise. Mr. Martinovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7824	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, except he's nervous, shows he's a very rude man. He's hardly offended Secretary Loncar, as well as the SNS. Apparently, Mr. Lonchar wanted to advertise the SNS, so he escorted the sick kid to the plane. Now we've heard under what circumstances it happened. Behind you, Mr. Zivkovic, remains a wasteland in the country, including the health system. Just to remind you, while there was a party in power whose list you participated in the last election, the health system was in such a desperate state that the health minister went to treatment in the Federal Republic of Germany. If this is a perspective for healthcare workers in Serbia, the SNS says it will fight with all means. The way to fight this is to just adopt this bill, which will allow young doctors in Serbia to come to specialisation and what is also very important, not to go to Norway, nor to Germany, nor to Italy, nor to the United States, but to stay in Serbia and to treat Serbian citizens. You have all the SNS ads, and when Minister Loncar follows a sick child to the plane, and when Alexander Vukic carries the child from the curtained bus. For you, it's all a commercial. It's easy for you. You've ruined this country. You didn't carry any special responsibility, you filled your pockets, and now you're sitting in a chair criticizing, throwing away and saying that someone's advertising SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7825	The word of the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7826	Article 27, which obliges you to conduct this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, not how you think. That interpretation, which you just gave, that Mr. Martinovic is entitled to a replica because he's the deputy head of the Parliament Club, a party that... Article 27, you can't find it. Do you want me to wait? Did you find it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7827	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7828	This interpretation that you have just given comes out not only of parliamentary practice in this Assembly, but also of the basic logical conclusion, because this would mean that the head or deputy head of the largest parliamentary club that supports the government or any parliamentary club that supports the government has the right to replicate every time someone criticises the work of the government. This was not about criticism, it was about the finding that something in this assembly happened two months ago, which was attended by all the MPs. The fact that you hear words that no one has spoken really speaks about the way you apply this Rules of Procedure, but anything else. Please introduce the same criteria for all MPs. As yesterday, I pray that the Rules of Procedure are not only applicable to one another without being applied to the other. You cannot so arbitraryly determine who has the right to reply, although it is one of your rights, but not on the basis of a free assessment, but on the basis of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7829	First of all, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there are no heads of Parliament clubs, but presidents. I didn't write this Rules of Procedure. I didn't take part in it. In Article 104(3), point (a) is replaced by the following: - the use of the rights referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly. Someone introduced that discretionary right to the President of the Assembly. Also, I listened carefully, and I heard the words that were said well, which of course you can check in the stenographic notes. I believe that the conditions have been met that fellow Martinovic, as president of the parliamentary group, since the president is not there, performs his duty, has the right to replication. Every time, regardless of whether the question is a parliamentary club that supports the government of the Republic of Serbia or a parliamentary club that does not support the government, so someone says - the former government or the former regime, I will allow the representatives of the parliamentary groups to react and have the right to reply. This is what equalizes all the people’s messengers in the National Assembly. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. Therefore, a question of dignity of the National Assembly was raised because Miss Jerkov made one mistake, which is that Mr Zivkovic did not mention the SNS in any way and that the chairman should not have given me the right to the replica. With insight into the stenographic notes, you can see that Mr Zivkovic, in an extremely negative way, is extremely malice, not to use a more difficult word, expressed, not about Alexander Vukic, but about the SNS, and Article 104, point 2 of the Decidently stands – if he is insultingly referring to a parliamentary group, or a political party, whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the President of the Parliamentary Group has the right to reply. Therefore, Mr. Arsic did not harm the Rules of Procedure when he gave me the right to reply. The Rules of Procedure are constantly insulting to those who are false. The Serbian Progressive Party will not allow a human gesture by the health minister, or the human gesture of any state official, to be shown so that it is allegedly a SNS advertisement. If it's an SNS commercial, I'm asking you now -- who stopped you from advertising your party, so that you're also following some sick kid to the plane or pulling him out of the curtained trash, etc. No, it is the easiest to sit or, as Mr. Zivkovic, take subsidies for vineyards that are nowhere to be found, and then criticize the RS government as allegedly advertised by the SNS. Gentlemen, what you knew and what you knew to do with Serbian health, you showed it. Now let some other people who have a vision of how to cure the Serbian health system so that the health system can treat the citizens of RS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7831	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsic, the honored guests, I believe that a member of 108 has been injured, that a member of 109 has been injured, but that he is also a injured member of 107. Dear Chairman, when you have not responded to both of Mr Martinovic's performances and let me explain how you hurt the Rules of Procedure. Mr Martinovic used, in two of his performances earlier here, terms which, I think, are an obvious violation and a violation of the dignity of not only the MPs in this Assembly but also the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. He was commenting on the performances of certain MPs here using terms -- rudely, malicely. I'm just going to explain to you what it means when someone says they're being rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7833	Please explain to me, since you have no right to speak to yourself. I'll pass it on to Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7834	I'm talking to you right now - rude, shameless, shameless, shameless. Mr Arsic, I think that was enough to first give Mr Martinovic a warning measure, and then on the basis of article 109 and a warning measure. Maliciosity, in the Serbian Dictionary, which I recommend to read to all the MPs, malice, nasty, insolent, insolent. Mr Arsic, these are all some terms that, when used by a national MP in the context of a debate on the amendment of the Health Protection Act, the MP intends to insult the dignity of another MP. Your duty was to give a warning measure. You did not do this and now I am very interested – do you accept my argument that you have violated the Rules of Procedure in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7835	I can say that I feel that I have made no mistake and that I have not broken the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. It is the people’s MPs who are far more guided and who need to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. I agree that there are sometimes different ways of experiencing certain spoken words. So the discussion was said to have been conducted in this way. So I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to vote on the day of the vote so that the National Assembly can declare itself? (Yes) Alexander Jovicic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7836	Mr. Chairman, I would really like you to appeal to the MPs next time not to lecture them and not to underestimate the intelligence of the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7837	People's MP, you can't advertise the same article twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7838	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad the previous speaker showed that he only knows how to give a lecture. Leave that for college and your students. You didn't take a single word of it in defense of your president, which indicates that everything Mr. Martinovic said...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7839	Mr. People's MP, article 107. The Rules of Procedure have already been advertised and I remind you that according to the Rules of Procedure, you are not allowed to address the MPs personally. Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7840	To use it first, since the minister called me, on the question of inability to accept all the candidates for specialization. This should not prevent you from accepting our amendment and creating a legal basis for it in law, and that when the conditions are created and the formal conditions begin to do so. I think it's a perfectly logical thing. As for the case with the plane and the sick kid, it's nice if you helped get it on the plane, but it's not being recorded and it's not being broadcast. This – who has done what he has done in his life politically and if he has helped someone and has helped them in some difficult situations, and has not taken pictures because he considers it rude, is one of the special things. In the replica, it's obvious in any stenogram that you should look at, or a stenogram that concerns my exposure from a moment ago, that I am not in any way the mention of the SNS, or your savior president. In no way. What you recognize about it is another thing. I'm just sorry if the problem is that you didn't hear well, and you're supernaturally endowed with something like that. So I'm sorry if we have such a problem. I'm proud of everything the party whose active executive I've done by 2004 and done for this country, for this people and for all its citizens. I don't have any problem with that. After that, it's been 10 years. In the legal system and in the face of people, with citizens today, tomorrow, whenever you want, no one looked down on me. I'll see if you'll be able to walk the streets alone when your authority passes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7841	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7842	Article 107, the Honorable Chairman, is insulting Parliament's dignity. Tell the MP that there are supernatural phenomena and tell the president of our party in such a way that the savior is very persuasive, and then don't be ashamed of what you've been doing, but you say you don't have a problem with it, and the state is devastated, I must say that it's really sad and you've been well identified in those sentences by Mr. Martinovic. It is truly regrettable that someone who has taken from the state for nothing a subsidy has no problem with it and no problem so can say here in the Assembly and insult us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7843	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7844	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, dear ministers, it is such an honor to me that I always speak after some discussions that are dynamic. I'll try to get back on the subject. I'll try to talk about the agenda, about health care. I think some fellow MPs here really need more specialists, but a certain kind. Health is appreciated. Health is very important, and health should be considered when you are young, and usually we start to think about health when the number of years passes by the number of shoes. Then we remember that health is very important, and most important to us is health only when we lose it. I support this law for the simple reason that for the first time he tries to pre-war some possible consequences. Given that our health is the most important in our lives and that we are too late to be aware of it, I think this law came in time, given that the minister present at the session did not perform in the past minister's duty, so that he bears the least responsibility for the state of health, and some who supported some former ministers, and perhaps including me, we should ask ourselves what those former ministers did, why our health, or our health situation in health, is so disastrous and why certain measures need to be taken, including these. We are a very old nation, especially in the country. As the president of the People's Peasants' Party, I must point out that by risking that certain Kraut newspapers are misreading my discussion so that tomorrow they can bring me a company, or they can throw me something I didn't have, including sin. So I'm obliged to say here because of the people who listen to us that we in health care have a problem because the nation has been completely robbed by the Thai political lobby in the previous period, that this nation is quite old, that the population has not been restored, that in the last 14 years the nation has grown significantly old, that our current age in the country is on average 59 years. So, we have full pensioners living in our villages, that health care services will be very important to us, that the lines in front of the waiting rooms are amazing, that a certain type of specialist is scheduled, it seems to me, and ten years in advance, let's say for knee surgery in Banjaca, there are 4,500 people waiting, and 450 operations are performed annually. So it would take ten years to perform all the knee surgery, but since some of them give up surgery, mostly for death, then I believe that instead of ten years for surgery, it'll only take eight years. So, the state of the nation as it is found, and we have to admit, first of all, because of the total economic devastation of the country's robbery, therefore, the situation that has been found has contributed to the deterioration of the health status of the population, that even part of the money being allocated, the percentage of GDP, since our economy is not delivering money, that at this moment, when the nation is old, we have 700,000 unemployed, when at the time we were most in debt, instead of creating jobs, we have lost 500,000 jobs, thus the GDP has fallen to a low level, and thus the percentage that has been allocated, i.e. the suspicion based on the percentages that were allocated to health. I have to support this law for several other reasons because it is very important that the rest of the nation, to pay full attention to it, so that health care is at that level, that, with other measures, the population is restored, because this country is threatened by the plague and that the rural population that is sick, which is 59 years old, when they are extinct, that territory that is empty, will be occupied by some other people, the white plague is the most effective means of ethnic cleansing, and taking possession of the territory of the cradles is the most successful kind of aggression, and it threatens us if we don't pay attention to the health of the people and therefore we will support, or I, as an MP, together with the SNS Group support this law. What no one here has said is that despite our waiting lines, we have 2,000 unemployed doctors and that they will have a chance, too, if they are disabled, certain specialists will have a chance to become specialists one day and thus contribute to the health care of our population. People's health needs to be their first priority. So I don't understand the criticisms of a law that only improves a somewhat existing solution. We have 2,000 doctors, mostly unemployed, mostly going to Germany and no one is asking the question, why are these doctors not allowed here to practice specialization, that those lines in front of waiting rooms are reduced, but in two years in 2011 and 2012, we left 530 doctors in Germany. In such a way, a poor low-GDP state, such as the Republic of Serbia, honored in a certain way the rich Federal Republic of Germany, because it trained those 530 doctors for whom they had no expense and in such a way saved over 50m euros in their budget, and for so much we lost because we lost so many doctors that we had trained here, and the ranks in front of our offices are growing. I will support my fellow farmer, however, I am a farmer of general practice and he is a specialist in viticulture and agriculture, so I will support his discussion on the merger of military and civil health. That's very important. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister to listen very carefully to what I'm saying, except that I'd like to join military and civil health, and I'd like to introduce special recruiting specialists for young soldiers in this sector. Although these recruitments are getting smaller, because they are mostly soldiers under contracts, and I would ask the Minister to hear why I support my colleague to merge, and in this merger, to examine the diagnosis that these military doctors have established in time, in this way freed certain people in Nis military obligations in 1978 and 1979, so someone was not able to serve the state, but was later able to serve the state and in this way the state of Serbia became a very strange country that everyone could become prime minister in it, and that at that time the diagnosis had no later results, any subsequent monitoring of medical records, such a type of diagnosis had not been confirmed by the medical doctor at a later time, so except for the merger of this military and civil health, I would ask the Minister to combine the documentation and that this documentation was processed, not by me, but by the specialist doctors for the diagnosis of that type and that they were able to see the state as being able to serve and to serve the state and to serve the state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7845	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7846	Dear Chairman, I will take the opportunity, given that the Minister of Health today, not only today, but also in this meeting and in previous councils, has been using and calling each other with very difficult diseases in the heat of their political struggles. Please on behalf of the patients...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7847	Please tell us which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7848	Article 107 I pray that the diagnosis of severely ill people who are suffering from severe illness is not mentioned, the passion of the struggle is one and the calling that someone is sick of certain diseases, I think we should avoid it on behalf of these sick people, because imagine when they look, when you tell someone that he is autistic, that he is schizophrenic, so these things must not be as MPs, and I am sending an appeal from my side as a doctor and as an MP, and I think the minister will also support that appeal that we do not use the diagnosis of severe patients of severe diseases, of which our fellow citizens suffer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7849	I understand your desire to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly, but the diagnosis can only be given by doctors, so someone who's trained the school and I haven't heard from any of your colleagues that he's diagnosed here, any fellow MP, so those who are trying to deal with drug abuse certainly can't upset patients who might be watching the National Assembly transfer, so I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been broken. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic, and let the MP Milan Latkovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7850	Thank you. My presentation on the amendment and addition of the Law will be linked to three different parts. One by quoting the minister who explained himself the proposal to amend and supplement the law and two by quoting the words of the minister he gave during the debate. The minister began his reasoning with a sentence – we have one problem that every day health problems arise, which was true and it was an argument that, with the reason that we have an insufficient number of people specialists and people who specialize in relatively mature age, as an argument to remove two years of mandatory internship, for specialization and that permanent working relationship should not be a criterion for obtaining specialization. It's the shortest before reading the whole explanation, and he's absolutely right. The minister has full legitimacy to read arguments like I have the right to remind that the congregations are a place where they are read at home and spoken at a session, because then congregations would not be called parliaments but legitations, or backhoes, whatever. It's not good to read the explanation and no one can benefit from it. It is a remark I gladly share with ministers, whether I support them or not, with fellow Members who are prone to reading. Reading is given reading badges and speech is a dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7851	Please go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7852	I'm in the dark, because I'm talking about reading an explanation. I didn't say the minister was rude, I didn't say that the minister in any way abused his position in following a sick child, I didn't mention Alexander, I was talking about reading the minister's explanation. So, topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7853	It would be a topic if this was a literature class, and this is a session of the National Assembly and I am asking you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7854	Since that is not said to the minister who reads the explanation, I am precisely in favour of your attitude about the congregation and I am talking about reading beautifully, eloquently, and speaking in the congregation. What did the minister tell us when he was talking about a law that, in five to ten years' time, needs to make changes for the better in the structure and in the number of specialist doctors with completed specializations and subspecies? He told us all the opposite things to each other. So, he said that over the past 10 years, these two provisions have prevented us from getting specialists, which is not justified or analysed by anything. What is it exactly that during the application of these two provisions prevented the specialization of finished medical students after practice? If it's said that he doesn't have to have two years of internship now, so it's going to speed up, then we're missing the analysis again -- in what number? Were there 47 specialists in the past 10 years, so now there's going to be 52 or there were three specialists, so now there's going to be 300? This is a speech that explains why a provision prevented good development in the sector and so that we all care about good development in this sector. Furthermore, what the minister is in his reasoning has also forgotten to clarify and to explain to the end is that the application of this law does not increase costs. One contradiction again. This means that all specializations are free, that no one pays anything or that the number of specialists will remain the same. I'm glad I cheered up the minister, because that proves what it means when you speak, not when we read the arguments. So if we want to increase the number of specialists, if we want to increase the number of students who have finished and the rest, if even you are inclined, and here I fully agree with you, to open up a space for specialists who want to finance the specialization themselves, where will this cost be, and how will it not be? If he's not there, do we have an increase in the number of specialists? So much for the reasons of the law, and I would appreciate it if you could answer those two questions about what the word "no cost" means. I know this applies to the application of this law, but the application of this law at the same time in your sentence says it should bring a better number of specialists. He can't do both, or one or the other. If you can briefly talk about the number of people who have had any specialization for the past 10 years, because you are calling for a bad experience of applying that law during that period. The second part is much more serious to me, as the minister said the RFO fund is a service service and that the finance ministry has nothing to do with the employment of doctors. The Minister's been very deceived by someone. The Minister doesn't have to be responsible for that. I have a lot of understanding for the minister who has been elected and who is relatively short on his function and I have no objection whatsoever, but it is a very serious delusion, since the RFZO fund is no service service whatsoever. The Fund is an indirect beneficiary of the budget and the dialogue developed on the need for reform of the Fund is one serious dialogue. I'm grateful to the minister for agreeing to talk about it at all. You're the first minister to ever want to say any word about the need for an RFO reform. Whether it's a minister I support or who I'm opposition to, I don't like ministers being deceived, and when you say a sentence in the Assembly that the Fund is a service service, then you're very seriously deceived, as you're deceived about the Ministry of Finance having nothing to do with employment. This assembly passed a law banning employment in the public sector, and the law is bad and the law produces problems in the whole public sector. It produces huge problems in the service and social protection sector, it produces problems wherever you want. We have so criticised the law, but then the minister can't go a few months after the vote on the law or a year after the vote on the law says the finance ministry has nothing to do with it. There will be now and there will be again. We had a problem with that law in solving flood problems and we'll have that problem for doctors as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7855	Comić, please talk about the subject of the agenda. The law was passed in December of last year.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7856	I'm talking about the agenda. With the health minister explaining the law, he said the finance minister had nothing to do with reduced numbers and a ban on the employment of doctors. I remind the finance minister that he's been deceived, and now I'm sorry if I have to remind you that you're deceived in the fact that the law on this was passed and that the finance minister can only enforce the law. At the beginning of my presentation, I said I would speak in three parts – about what the minister read, about what he considered not clearly explained, and about other sentences that the minister had shared with the National Assembly in his discussion. So, I'd like to ask everyone to listen very carefully. I listen very carefully to all the MPs. So these two things you're deceived about need to be clarified. The last one, about a personal attitude. This really is a totally personal attitude. There's no way I can present it as part of ideology or as anything related to your good judgments on the bill you've defended by sharing information, which you're obviously deceived about. It's about your work descriptions of medical students. You talked about learning, you talked about years of torture, sacrifice and googling. You know, if you want us to encourage the will to know in our society, if you want us to encourage that it's good to learn for the rest of our lives, then it would be good to give up the attitude that learning means. I have no doubt that some people are really tortured and naked. It's not for me, that's why I'm talking about a personal attitude. I most well-intentionedly believe that the minister would have to refrain from such a qualification of medical studies, even if you personally had such an attitude. It's these finesse when you're a minister and you're just a doctor, whatever specialization, that learning and studying cannot and should not be qualified in our society as torture, sacrifice and googling, because what we want to become is an atmosphere in a society where learning is a process throughout our lives. And when we talk about life and when we talk about the money that is missing from the RFO, which is not a service service, then the free bill shows that for its working age, full-time, each of us is about 25 to 30,000 euros away from the RFO. That's why I'm glad you're the first minister to talk about RFO reform. I'm not saying that this will end in your term, or that you have two mandates, but I'm glad we're talking about whether it's a fund and if it's a fund that has to do, if it's not a fund that needs to do what it has to do, because the money that each of us is out as an employee is something that we need to get a favor back. You also mentioned in your address that you would be responsible for everything. You won't be guilty of anything, except in a case that you don't look at all like right now, of committing a crime that the institutions will prove guilty and sentence you to. You'll be responsible, the difference is huge. It would be good for you and every other minister to make a difference between those two concepts, as it would be good if we didn't lose sight of my request that we don't talk about learning, about studying, about torture and nudity and sacrifice, because it's not. Everyone's learning to enrich themselves, and especially doctors, I mean every profession, don't stop learning their whole lives. If they're going to get the right material compensation, if they're going to make a living for what they're going to do as doctors, I can't tell. It's on each of the doctors who deals with a particular profession, but that everyone's going to study all their lives, I'm sure of it. You learn, and I'm absolutely sure, because a little bit of what a profession can be in the 21st century, to stay in the profession without learning all the time. Is the task and is the Ministry's plan, is it the ministry's responsibility to share dialogue with us, with the Assembly first? I know how the network of institutions goes, I know how communication works between clinical centres, networks of health centres across Serbia. But the final question is – do you think it would be good for the committee of directors, where great MPs from all political parties are, there are almost 40 doctors here, I don't know if they all have sub-specializations and specializations, but I know that they are excellent MPs, therefore, with the Council of Serbia's Health Committee to open up a topic about what is going to happen next year in Serbia's healthcare, in two years or five years, or in 10 years, where your idea of such changes and additions of the law would speed up a number of better staff specialization, and then, consequently, reduce waiting lists and improve the overall quality of healthcare? It would be good if you and the board were to open up the subject. For this topic will be interesting and this emphasis to grow up, allow me that term, specialists characterise that they are too old. I don't believe that you can find in any developed European hospital an excellent resident at 29 or 30, because it's not just about whether they're 45, 47 or 50 years old. It would be good, of course, if they could finish all of this by 35, but it's also that people are at the top of their own personal careers, but of course what they can give as scientific workers and as specialists, or what makes me think that everyone is studying medicine, which is to help people. I'm grateful for your opportunity to really participate in the subject when you speak. I can't help but regret that you're talking about the Fund as a service service, or that you think that the employment ban law has nothing to do with doctors or any other public sector, with the hope that there will be a future dialogue. If you can answer the question in parallel about the number of specialists for the last 10 years you've been calling for and for the years ahead, I'd be grateful.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7857	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7858	I'm just gonna focus on the gist, so we don't get into any controversy. You asked if there was no extra funding for specialization. I have to remind you that you have read carefully, we would see why there is no additional funding, because every health care facility has its own plan for the next year where these funds are to be included. So that's the plan that goes according to the Batut Institute's recommendation, where it assesses how much it takes and therefore separates the funds and they are in that sense, so that some new additional funds are not allocated. You don't hire people. There's a process that goes because they're already doing the job regularly, and those who specialize, teachers or teachers and those who are administratively doing it. I'd like you to just read it, and you'll see that it's explained in detail for which there is no additional means. As for the Ministry of Finance, listen, you will see, I certainly did not say – the Ministry of Finance, or the Minister of Finance. It's got nothing to do with that. I repeat once again that everyone hears, it is that I am convinced that when you have an argument and when in one country you lack doctors to treat people, that there will be understanding. I didn't say for a moment that the finance minister had nothing to do with it, listen, and you'll see, because I didn't think, so I couldn't even say, I'm going to go to something human which is that when you have a simple argument, you have a fact, you have information that it's something we need, you have the number of people who are going to retire, you have people who are leaving for some other reason, so those funds are part of that budget that they're staying, so I think it's extremely simple, you're going to listen and you'll see. As for the fund, we can have a different view of the fund and that's perfectly normal, but I'm telling you, and that's my opinion, that the fund is there to implement the health ministry policy. I'm glad that you're giving such a role to the fund and that if I understand you correctly, you want to present that the fund is something untouchable or anything. I'm also telling you that I don't see it that way or think it can, or that's okay. I repeat what I was talking to my colleague about, when I answered the question, that the fund contains the funds of all of us, that they are not their own personal assets that they have brought from home, where they will, accordingly, be at their disposal, what is the policy of the Resord Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I can tell you so much about my vision and the trust and the Ministry and the Government, because that is how I see it, and also, that is somehow a trail of events, something that is normal in the consolidation of the system that exists. I think that was the most important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7859	Col. Comić, on what grounds do you want the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7860	Bad interpretation, I'm going to ask for a quick question. The minister asked me, if he understood correctly, I just wanted to tell him what we had a misunderstanding about. If you give me an answer, there are planned funds in the explanation. They exist before this law, that's what I'm talking about. If this law doesn't change the number of specialists, then what do we bring? If they're gonna change the number of specialists, there's gonna have to be a new plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7861	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7862	Unfortunately, it says nicely what the conditions were for someone to get a specialization. The institution identified the funds and received them, but the facility did not have doctors constantly employed, and the condition for someone to get specialization to be constantly employed, the next condition was that they had two years of those practices as a clinical physician. These were problems, and when you had the means, and when you had the resources, you couldn't meet the conditions to get the specialization. Of course, they eventually recovered funds because they were meant for it, but the funds were and they have.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7863	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milan Latkovic. Here you go. Let the MP Vladimir Pavicevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7864	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the health of the people is the general social interest and the most significant resource of the development of a society. Starting with this fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia determines a health policy that defines a strategic plan, towards public health development. In order to define health policy, the government adopts a public health development strategy, a health insurance development strategy and an action plan for the implementation of the strategy. These documents set out the objectives of development and define priorities for improving the health of the people. The Health Protection Act provides for regulatory conditions for the operational implementation of established health policy and social care for the health of the population. Despite objective criticisms that can be addressed to the country’s healthcare organisation, the development of health insurance certainly does not lag behind much of the health systems in countries that are economically significantly stronger than us. Also, according to the degree of health care development and the speed of adoption of health technologies, health services in the Republic of Serbia are well above its economic development. The greatest credit for this development of healthcare belongs to highly professional, specialist health care staff and this is crucial proof that human resources are also the most important conditions for the development of healthcare. Despite the established health policy and the strategy of public health development, the human resources analysis carried out in health institutions in the Republic shows that there has been a discontinuity in development in this area, with a tendency and a further deterioration, especially when it comes to specialist and sub-specialist staff, as a pregnant factor in the development of health care. This unfavourable condition was the most contributed by: insufficient number of specialist and subspecial staff; adverse age structure of personnel; limiting the conditions and procedures for sending young doctors to specializations; the length of the duration of specializations themselves, as well as the length of the basic medical studies. For all these reasons, health care professionals are most often referred to specializations about 30 to 35 years of their lives, and the average age of specialists and subspecies is over 50 years of life. The lack of specialist and subspecial staff, such as colleagues in their exhibitions, is particularly expressed in the deficitary branches of medicine, such as: children's psychiatry, cardiosurgery, radiology, pathology, etc. It is precisely the lack of specialist and subspecial staff that has enabled these famous existing waiting lists and diagnostic procedures to be produced on high-special services provided by these personnel. These lists are particularly long in some specialist branches. First of all, I mean orthopaedic surgery and ophthalmology, where more than 290 days wait, while other procedures and high specialist services wait 30 to 60 days, largely leading to an extension of the course of treatment, and also endangering the health condition of the population. Such a situation, unfortunately, affects the society's most socially endangered layers. These are all indications that a health development strategy is not effectively implemented in practice. The specific issue is an unfavourable or unequal territorial schedule of specialist staff. Based on the normability of personnel and found health conditions, the Ministry of Health brings annual staff plans for each health institution in the Republic. In this way, the human resources are managed planically and a significant improvement in the inherited adverse situation from the earlier period in this area. However, this is about a process that could not be completed and resolved in a short time, i.e. for the past two or three years. As a result, the work of plan management of personnel resources should continue to be promoted. I especially mean here the need for a timely adoption of human resources plans by the end of the current year for the following year, which in practice has not always been the case. The problem of an unfavourable personnel structure in health institutions can be greatly mitigated by the timely development of a specialisation and sub-specialisation plan. In order for this acute problem to be resolved in a timely manner, our proposal is that the Ministry of Health, immediately after the adoption of this law by the end of 2014, establish a plan of specialisation for each medical area and for every health institution, starts from home health to the clinical center. I think quotas should be set, i.e. allow for the number of new specialisations and sub-specialisations, which should thus bridge the obstacle currently present. This should be published on the Ministry of Health website. It was also an invitation for all healthcare institutions to start conducting special procedures for sending healthcare professionals to specialization. In doing so, we must not forget and aim to improve the territorial schedule of personnel by health institutions and regions to avoid inaccessible inequality with the number of doctors per district. As an example, I would like to say that there are 209 doctors in the Srem County, from which I come, on 100,000 inhabitants, while 424 doctors in Nisav County are on 100,000 inhabitants. That is why, Mr. Minister, I believe that the ministry's priority in the coming period should be to unify and reduce regional differences in our single health service. If we do so, we will ensure that Srem also approaches the average number of doctors in Serbia, which is 307,000 per 100,000 inhabitants, which is certainly worth all the resources he owns. In addition, we believe that it is extremely important for the full implementation of this proposal and the provision of a bill which obliges healthcare professionals to implement in a health care facility the network in a working relationship for a double period of time compared to the duration of the specialisation. If we do this, I think we will be able to improve the human resources of health institutions, provide better health services in smaller development environments, use human resources rationally and improve the health of the population. Mr. Minister, I think it is necessary to persist in the consistent and principled application of the regulation on conditions for the performance of health care in terms of staff. Finally, I would like to point out that it is particularly important that this bill shortens the time of the medical staff's referral to specialization, simplifys the procedure for approval of specialisation and retains the possibility of volunteer specializations. This proposal, as well as the accompanying acts to be adopted by the Ministry of Health on the basis of it, provides continuity in the development of health and improves the quality of the provision of services to the population. For these reasons, as she presented in her presentation, the Honorable Professor. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, the SPS parliamentary group, will back the bill in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7865	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsic, Mr Minister, the Honored Guests, we are here today discussing a proposal to amend a member. This is Article 184. The health care law. Reading the explanation that came from the government, that's where I noticed two things that matter to me for my debate here. One thing she says – the aim of the amendment is to improve the health system. It is okay, generally speaking, and then added – one of the most important resources, which is the basis for the development of the health care system, are human resources. There's no dilemma either, but for what I read in the explanation, I have three things to say here that I think are very important, which we suggest further changes to the bill. Please consider this carefully. I think we have a good argument, which should serve you to accept our amendment that we have sent, although I don't think that's already respected. Therefore, we believe that a better solution to the problem of the deficits of doctors of individual specialities in Article 184 is possible. From what I understand, I'm not from that profession, and if I don't understand correctly, it can be explained to me here, for example, the government has suggested that an unemployed health care worker can make specialisations in the area of the deficited branches of medicine, but only by a special decision of the ministry. We think this is one point that deserves a kind of revision. To look at this thing maybe a little bit from a broader perspective. We believe and suggest that an unemployed health care worker with higher education can professionally perfect himself on his cost without arbitration of the ministry. We think this is a better solution, and we also appreciate this argument that Mr. Minister made when he responded to Mr. Zivkovic's performance. I believe that, widely observed, this proposal is a better solution. That's one thing. The second thing, the proposal we're discussing, I don't think it's enough to argue that human resources, as one of the most important resources underlying the development of a health care system, will improve the health system. Mr. Loncar, you are, I mean, now for the first time since the formation of this government in the Assembly, in terms of defence of one bill. You were during the MPs' institute, but I expected you to appear here before this member's change, with the proposals for a solution to the following problems, I've listed some here. For example – poor organisations in the health care system, inadequate management, poor organisation in financing health care. I expected that there would be some ideas here in the Assembly that would concern equalising the private and state-run sectors in health care or solving the problem of the health insurance system. If only we could hear what the plan is in all these areas, Mr. Loncar, I think we could agree on some solutions that will stop leaving or draining personnel. Until we do all this and show some signals that we're dealing with this, people will be leaving, and human resources will still be thin for us, and people will... I met a man the other day, a doctor, learns German now, he's maybe 45, as he said, years and wants to go to Germany, says people go to Norway, to Slovenia, etc. So human resources will not be protected by these changes. Just one small piece, but that's what we're proposing changes. The third thing, Mr. Lonchar, is you're the first time to defend a law, so I understand from there, but in the future I think that when you write an explanation for the amendments to the law or the law that you should take care of language structures, therefore, of the language used. On page 6, within the objectives achieved by the adoption of the law, this is how the adoption of this law will achieve the next goal, he says, "an increase in the number of expert personnel". Can't "increase the number of expert personnel". It's not necessary to literally apply a compatibility to get superlatives in a sentence. So, gentlemen, we're here in the Assembly, here every paper needs to pass a check. On page 10, my colleague Jerkov suggested this to me after reading, so we interpreted this argument a little, “in the Republic of Serbia about 100,000 people die annually in all causes of death. ” Of course they die of cause of death. They don't die from the cause of happiness, love and life.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7867	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7868	Just one more sentence. This approach gives the impression of superficiality and unseriousness, in a political sense of irresponsibility, and we as MPs each time should respond to such bad approaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7869	I agree with my colleague that we need to introduce an editorial commission when we write a bill's reasoning. I think the editorial board only pays attention to the text of the law, but you're right, you should take care of such mistakes. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7870	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs, I will begin my presentation in the following way. First of all, this change of law is usually small by volume, but I personally think it will be of great importance to the health system. In line with the basic needs of every health system in terms of personnel, equipment and space, I believe that this bill will have a significant impact on repairing the doctor's age structure and increasing the number of highly specialized personnel, especially in the area of the deficited branches of medicine. In this way, the situation related directly to this first pillar of health, which I mentioned, will be corrected, and this is the fit. So I would deny an earlier speaker that, in this way, by changing the law, there will be no repair of the situation in that humane sense. Also, due to the obvious and unquestionable discipline that health problems are many, on the one hand, and that the money is realistically small, this is a good approach to solving health problems, because in this way, as the proposer of the explanation said, practically not spending additional resources. I think it is necessary to allow young doctors, young healthcare professionals with higher education earlier to refer to specialization. I think it's a good proposal, and it's in line with the careful planning and analysis of health care personnel. The approval of deficit specializations to employees of doctors is a good proposal, because in addition to a certain possibility for these doctors to be employed tomorrow in the state health care system, there is a realistic possibility that these doctors should become employed in the private system and increase the number of private health employees, which is the goal of this government. The fundamental difference between this proposal and the existing proposal is the possibility for doctors to obtain specialisation after a traineeship and a professional examination. The second, no less significant change is that unemployed doctors will have the opportunity to perfect themselves, of course, who is in the financial capacity to do so, but will have a legal basis, a legally regulated opportunity to perfect the specialist. In this way, the number of highly specialized expert underage personnel will be significantly increased and thus the age structure of healthcare professionals with higher education will be improved. That's very important. We've also heard from the minister, we've heard from many colleagues today what the age structure of doctors is, and I consider this move more than significant. In addition to this effect, no less significant and the renewal of the deficits of medicine, dentistry and pharmacies. This act directly and indirectly affects the increase of the number of deficit specialists, which will definitely increase the number of these specialists and the possibility of adequate healthcare in these specialised areas. As the final proposal for the law, I am convinced, better quality and more accessible healthcare, as one fairer model of professional training for a highly educated medical staff, but also more efficient use of health resources. I listened to the statements and the minister and the authorised representatives of the parties in parliament. I can say that one part of them really had a chance to change the health system because they were in power for a long time. But that didn't happen then. What I can say is, several times, there's been mentioned boastful behavior in health care, I mean by colleagues from the DS, and when you mention blatant behavior in health, I absolutely have a picture of the period of power of the DS and the party that then ran the G17 plus party's health. Also, when it comes to blocking the Ministry of Finance's reception of doctors I am an act, only the formation of the Commission of the Ministry of Finance in the state administration is the result of the disastrous financial situation and the devastation of our country, which has just been created as a result of the DS authorities. So here I would distinguish cause and effect. Also, I must say that I am truly disappointed with the demeaning or insubordination of the Serbian Parliament, the Minister of Health and all of us by part of the opposition MPs, by presenting the human procedure as cheap political marketing by presenting, i.e. reading the arguments and informing the citizens about the matter that we are talking about today again in a persuasive way. I'm really disappointed. Mr. Chairman, I must tell you that the presentation of certain MPs has indeed come down to primitive illusions and insults. I'm speaking to you, Mr. Chairman. They're not guilty of being like that. They were twisted by the system that they created themselves. In that sense, they have one irresistible desire to destroy everything that is progress. I will also say that no one's genetics is so bad and that if they adopt enough home education, good intentions and culture from the MPs on this side will be what they're not today. Otherwise, I'm asking for an explanation and an apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7871	My colleague Stefanovic, on what grounds? (National MP Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Replica, as head of the parliamentary group. On what basis? (National MP Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Democratic Party four times. ) As he mentioned the DS, he only talked about the system in health care as it was, that it was destroyed. You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7872	I don't know on what other basis most MPs can speak but in this, but I also had to react because, to inform my colleague and colleagues, the opposition does not serve to cheer power or to make it joyful, but rather, and we will do it very thoroughly and studioically, be sure of that. I don't want to get out of those old grief girls that the DS has never run health care in Serbia, but I'm also going to tell you that we're going to do everything the minister knows for sure that the things that exist in our health now and in the last two years we're going to bring it to the public and do everything we can to make these mistakes happen. I hope you'll cooperate with the Minister in charge and the people who run the system. For example, if the director of the Clinical Centre were to operate in Serbia, whom the advances had set up, rather than go abroad. For example, to check in detail who is involved in the supply of drugs in this country and on what links and ties he does so. For example, let's see why there are 200 typewriters at the Clinical Center that someone rebuilds every month for big money and thus takes huge state money. For example, let's see why you took 250m euros from health care this year in the budget. These are the things we are going to ask to be questioned, not to get up and say – I am very disappointed. You'll be disappointed about the DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7873	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7874	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, honourable ministers, may I remind my colleagues from the DS to manage one part of the health system in the territory of the AP Vojvodina where you have a case where the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund uses funds to renovate rural hospitals, and then the value of the contract goes up five times by taking mass commissions. Not to mention the case of the renovation of the Vojvodina Clinical Center and many other cases that have occurred which represent the most drastic abuse of the Law in the area of the health system in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which, unfortunately, is happening today. Today, the DS is trying to preserve its privileges and its positions in the AP Vojvodina even though it is a fact, although it is part of a political partography that DS barely enjoys the support of 6% of citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but it does not give power to a living head either. God forbid someone enters the capital investment fund of Vojvodina, someone enters the documents of the Regional Ministry of Health, so that you can see how much abuse there is, how many violations there, and how many situations there are that taxpayers' money, citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina instead of actually going to renovate homes of health, hospitals, clinical centres, etc. actually ended up in the black DS funds for the purpose of funding election campaigns.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7875	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7876	To inform colleagues, as well as previous speakers, the MUP of the Republic of Serbia, police have been sitting in all these funds for two years and trying to find what their colleague is talking about. But in order not to get into that right now, since what's nice about it is what's called, competent services, I just have to say it's not convenient when you've been talking for two and a few years, talking, talking, talking, talking, talking, doing, research, we're going to work it out, and you're not going to start doing it. What's for sure, I can promise you, when those six, six by six, grow a little, and they will, and when that support falls six, six, six, six, and they will, then we won't talk, but we'll do it, and we'll report to the citizens who stole it, where he stole it, and who's going to jail for it. I think that's fair and fair. So I think you've become so transparent already, that story, because citizens are laughing because they can't see all these abuses and people who break the law to answer for it. Me as a man and as a citizen in this country and as someone who's a Democrats, I'd like that to happen. Whoever broke the law should answer the law and should suffer the consequences of his actions and not the act that caused a certain crime. But don't talk without being previously informed that two years of special police teams are investigating all these institutions and funds you mentioned. Please inform Minister Stefanovic. Ask him. He knows it best, and I'm sure he'll confirm my words.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7877	Time. The word is Alexander Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7878	I'd just like to remind my colleague that it's not the special police teams that are going to bring judgments. Therefore, they prepare material for court proceedings, and the final word is whether individuals from the DS have committed abuse or not will be told by competent courts. What is very important for the people living in Vojvodina is to answer the question if you have done everything in accordance with the law, if you have really improved the lives of the people of Vojvodina in the period from 2000 to 2014, then why is the DS so dramatically afraid of elections in the territory of the AP Vojvodina? If you've done everything great, if there was no abuse, if I'm lying about the Capital Investment Fund serving as a flow water heater to fund the DS election campaign, if everything was okay with the Vojvodina Development Bank, if everything was okay with the renovation of health facilities in the AP Vojvodina territory, then why are you afraid of the election? Go to the polls with all your great results and prove you're better than the SNS. If I were you, I'd do it. I'm better than the SNS, the advances are lying, we didn't steal anything, we respected the law, we're going to the elections, we're going to beat them. No, we did everything great, everything's great, there's no abuse, and don't ask for the end of our political careers to discuss elections for MPs in the AP Vojvodina. It's your political philosophy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7879	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As for Mr. Martinovic, I will quote the President of the Assembly from yesterday – what kind of replica is that for you? I mean, really little, this one needs...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7881	Please, Miss Jerkov, don't use this as a replica. You're talking about the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7882	... Okay, we'll continue on the agenda. The minister when he explained the law to the MPs and, as he said, also to the citizens of RS, he said one important thing, which is that he wants to tell those students or future students, or the unemployed doctors the real truth, to tell them things that they really are. In part, he did so, especially in the part where he talked about the number of unemployed doctors, the deficit specializations, the number of days needed to welcome some kind of medical service. However, he forgot to say one very important thing that is crucial actually when it comes to the question of this law, which, in fact, young doctors are most interested in it, which is that this Assembly adopted two months ago the Law on Employment, which means that if the aim of this law is fulfilled and we really have more specialists, it means that we will only have more specialists who can't be hired. This is because this government has determined that linearly it is necessary to prohibit employment in the public sector, although, I suppose, it is not the doctors who burden the budget but those 50,000 SNS activists who are employed until the moment the law enters into force. More colleagues, including you, Mr. Minister, spoke with regret, and I think with full regret, about a large number of young doctors going to Germany, Norway or abroad. They also forgot to say that they're not leaving because they don't have specialization conditions, but because they can't get a job and they forgot to say one very important thing, that some people aren't leaving because they can't get a job but because this government adopted the so-called government. a solid tax which actually means that even those young doctors who manage to hire, who, along with duty, with night work, with various supplements manage to earn a salary that would be higher than 60,000 dinars, then apply a solidarity tax to them and reduce that salary. So when we talk about the problems of young doctors to get a job, don't be like that and don't say it's a specialization problem. It's not a problem with specialization. The problem is that these people are leaving because, first of all, you passed a law banning their employment and secondly, you passed a law that they can't make more than 60,000 dinars and everything they can make over 60,000 dinars that the state takes away from them to fill some kind of hole in the budget that, of course, is not filled in. The third thing you forgot to say, which is very important to citizens who are either patients or some potential patients of all those doctors we need to educate, is that this Assembly has also adopted a budget that has 250m euros less for the fund, to fill some kind of pension insurance hole again, and that it's a simple situation that you've solved in such a way that you're getting rid of, obviously, very unsatisfactory to be seen at every turn. Of course these young people are leaving, of course they're going to keep going because everything this government is doing in order for them to go as quickly and as quickly as possible and anywhere. It's just that when you talk about things like that, then you have to be completely honest. We, such as Mr Milosavljevic as an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group, will support any good initiative that will go that way but do not present it as a business for these people, because no job is being created. The only thing this law's going to produce is that now we're not just going to educate the doctors who are going to leave, but we're going to educate the specialists who are going to leave, because you forbid them from working in this country and living with dignity from their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7883	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. The word has a minister in the government, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7884	Just a few things to clear up. Doctors have to be hired for reasons you've listed yourself, they're leaving each other, they're going to retire. There is a commission with the government, and it is now only a road that gives approval for employment. They're getting a job and they're going to get a job just like they used to. We had in January, we had now 100 and something, I think it's 115, it's one thing and it's going to be by the end of the year more hiring people, because the system has to work. What you're saying is that we're going to give a specialization and they're not going to get a job so they're going to leave, please, look, who gets a specialty from any clinic, from any hospital that pays for it, and now you have the opportunity and you're not constantly employed, you're obliged to double how long the specialization takes you to do at that hospital, the clinic. So you can't get a special, in the meantime get a job and go abroad. It's one of the measures where we want our doctors, then experts to stay in Serbia, and employment will be there, only now it's a new procedure, because it's impossible for people to retire without you hiring. That's the point, let's be clear, that after the specialization they get, they're staying twice as long to work at the facility.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7885	Thank you, Mr. Lonchart. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's national emissary, on what grounds? (Alexandra Jerkov, from Place: By Business, Article 104) You have no option under Article 104, but I'd like to ask if you can only do it in one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7886	I thank you, indeed in one sentence. Now I'm really starting to think that you haven't read the ban on public sector employment or you haven't read it or for some reason you think that law doesn't apply to doctors. Please, I don't know, maybe you don't know that this law has been passed in this assembly, which is a possibility because it's really not a law relating directly to your ministry, but please tell me if this law on the ban on public sector employment applies to doctors and does it apply to young unemployed doctors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7887	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. Minister Zlatibor Loncar spoke for the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7888	Just go back to the facts, which means by what decision the government of the Republic of Serbia is employed by doctors and will be hired. The procedure has been changed, you can't without that consent that an institution as an institution hires someone, punishment is two million dinars, if I'm not mistaken, look only better, they'll see that it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7889	Thank you. The people's letter to Marjana Marash came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7890	To shorten my discussion today and please allow me to refer to the situation in the municipality from which I come, the Vrbas municipality and to the condition that is in the general hospital of Vrbas, which is the secondary type, which covers 200,000 inhabitants in the southern Bačka district and which is gravitated by seven municipalities. There are 68 specialists in this hospital, 19 over 55 years of age or 27.94. The age of 60 is seven, which is 10.29, there is only one doctor who is over 60 years old, there are five specialists in orthopedics and tramology, three of whom are over 55 years old, at the encology department, the obstetrics situation of five specialists is three over 55 years old, and there is only one specialist at the Department of Internasic Encology and he is over 60 years old. I also want to point out that in addition to having orthopaedic surgery in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. hip and knee artoplastics on average waits 291.4 days, in the general hospital in Vrbas, the waiting list is reduced to 30 days. The most difficult condition in the hospital was in the pediatric ward, where six months of unorganized duty had not been arranged, so patients, parents with children had to go to Novi Sad. After that, it is organized by having one specialist doctor now, one of them is specialized and the others are engaged under the supplemental contract, even the president of our municipality, Dr Bratislav Kazic, who is a pediatrician at the general hospital in Vrbas, besides his daily job in the municipality. The problem of a general hospital in Vrbas, a respected minister, has existed since 2008, since the seven municipalities gravity towards our general hospital of secondary character, but patient growth has not followed the appropriate increase of the bed and staff fund. Let me just point out, let's say we have three neurologists and one of them is on specialization, surrounding municipalities, health homes don't have neurologists and these neurologists cover the entire population, 200,000, and for these reasons, some of the staff must also cover specialists of other specialities. Dear Ministers, I would like to point out that there is imbalance in Vojvodina, when it comes to the bed staff fund, so that there are municipalities that are gravitated by the same number of inhabitants as in our general hospital in Vrbas, which, unlike us, have two or three times the size of the bed fund and the human potential. I'm sure you'll find a solution to this regional imbalance and certainly this bill that's been proposed will help us in this regard. What I would like to point out is that my colleague from the Parliament Club, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, was respected in her previous term, when she was in your position, she recognized this problem that you recognized, so that a total of 1,700 specializations were approved in 2013. Finally, I would like to repeat what we have already said, that we will gladly support the amendment of the Health Protection Act in the voting day and vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7891	I thank Mrs. Marash. Because there are no more entries on the lists for the word. Mr. Milisavlevich, you have one minute and if you want to use it, here you go, as authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7892	I will use that minute in the interest of our citizens who are suffering from some serious diseases and together, using the opportunity, there is a health minister, to appeal to all politicians and to the public when you enter a political duel with someone, do not use the names – diagnosis, of which our fellow citizens suffer, because you do not insult politicians and MPs, you insult those people who suffer from schizophrenia, autism, from diabetes, from many diseases that the MPs, many politicians outside the Assembly use in these duels. It means an appeal to contribute to a more decent effort not to use diagnosis or insult each other, not to insult patients who suffer from severe illnesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-08-30-0.u7893	Thank you. Before concluding a principled search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. The session will be held tomorrow at 10.00 a.m. on the amendments.
