ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11399	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are opening the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 144 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 164 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Miljana Nikolic, Momo Colaković, Srdjan Dragojevic and Olgica Batic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, exceptionally, for Friday, beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, and a proposal for a merger of discussions. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11400	Madam President, I am taking this opportunity to point to the violation of Rule 172. In accordance with Article 172. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly shall begin the draft budget at the session of the National Assembly at the earliest 15 days of the day of the adoption of the draft budget in the National Assembly. We got a rebalancing proposal 40 hours ago in this assembly. So we believe that the injured member is 172. I am also taking this opportunity to ask you to put the opposition's proposal to double the time for debate during today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11401	Okay. I don't think there's any damage to Article 172. The assembly now has to decide whether to accept an emergency procedure or not, the little remark is premature. It is not unusual to propose to discuss the budget by emergency procedure and not to go according to the rules, as it says in the Rules of Procedures, but by exceptional, if it is approved by the majority. Would you like to make a statement about the violation of Rule 172? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Yes. Thank you. I am putting on the vote by MEP Stefanovic that the agenda, which we have not yet established, is doubling the time of the debate, something we do not know. Do you still stay on this, since we haven't set the agenda or do you want to vote after the agenda is set? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Yes. I thank you. Just remind me, it doesn't turn out I didn't want to. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, the Proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for 2014, the Proposal for a Decision on amending the 2014 Financial Plan of the National Employment Service and the Proposal for a Decision to give its consent to the Decision amending the Social Insurance Fund for the 2014 Social Insurance Fund, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – 17 abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the 186 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the urgent procedure be put on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on the provisional regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes for the beneficiaries of public funds, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 22 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – 20 abstentions – there are no, four of the 189 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government has proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda - Proposal for a law on the temporary regulation of how pensions are paid, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 167 against – 20 abstentions – there are no, three of the 190 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – 17 abstentions – there are no, eight of the 190 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the 2014 Budget of the Republic of Serbia with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for 2014; Proposal for a Decision on amending the Financial Fund for the 2014 Financial Fund; Proposal for a Decision to give consent to the Decision amending the 2014 Financial Fund for the Health Insurance Fund; Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2014; and Proposal for a Decision on the granting of consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Fund for Social Insurance of Military Insurance for the year 2014; Proposal for a Law on the temporary regulation of the basis for the payment and payment of salaries, i.e. the provision of money for the public resources for the year 2014. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 166, v – 18, abstentions – no, six of the 190 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and I declare: I conclude the vote and declare: for -166, v - 19, abstentions – there is no, there is no vote again of the 19-nation MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, established the agenda of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d : 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014 with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for 2014, the Proposal for a Decision on amending the 2014 Financial Fund for the Republic of health insurance, the Proposal for a Decision on the granting of an Agreement on the modification of the National Employment Service's Fund for the period 2014 and the Proposal for a Decision on the amending the Social Insurance Fund for the Social Insurance Fund for the period 2014; 2. Proposal for a law on the temporary regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other permanent incomes for the users of public funds; 3. Proposal for a law on temporary adjustment of the way pensions are paid; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that in addition to all the members of the Government, I have been invited to attend the meeting today by Nenad Mijailović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Jelena Rancic, Assistant Minister of Finance Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour, Employment, Boračko and Social Affairs, Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt at the Ministry of Finance, Dragica Jovanovic, Assistant Director of the Treasury Administration at the Ministry of Finance, Milica Danilović, Director of the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance, Nada Mirkovic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Stanimirka Mijailović, Senior Advisor in the Public Enterprise Sector in the Ministry of Finance, Svetlana Kuzmanov Zivanovic, Senior Advisor in the Financial System Sector at the Ministry, Slavica Manojlović Senior Advisor in the Budget in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance in the Ministry of Finance in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Ministry of Finance in the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Finance of Finance and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Ministry of Finance of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Finance of the Ministry of Finance of Finance of Finance. Please take your seats. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle and uniform search on draft laws, i.e. decisions on the agenda under points 1, 2, 3 and 4, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The president of the DS parliamentary group has proposed a long debate in principle, i.e. that the time of debate for parliamentary groups is 10 hours. This proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm asking MPs who want to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -20, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 MPs out of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 192(3), paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the draft amending and supplementing the Law on the 2014 Budget Act of the Republic of Serbia with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments to the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for 2014, the Proposal for a Decision on amending the 2014 Financial Fund for the period 2014 and the Proposal for a Decision on amending the Financial Fund for the Health Insurance for the financial year 2014; Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11402	Thank you, Madam President. Article 167 is injured – emergency procedure. Under the urgent procedure, a law governing issues and relations can be passed due to circumstances which could not be foreseen, and the adoption of an emergency law could cause adverse consequences for people's lives and health, the country's safety and the work of bodies and organisations, as well as failure to comply with international obligations and compliance with EU rules. We believe that these draft laws do not fulfil in any element the conditions laid down in Article 167, with the exception of Article 172. Since you have called for urgency, we do not see how it is possible for us to have a budget in the Assembly within 15 days, and how someone can seriously prepare for such extensive material, and that is to be quality and to bring well-being to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11403	Thank you. In accordance with Article 167. The Government, or the Proposer, was obliged to state to us in the light of the draft law, following an urgent procedure, the reasons set out in Article 167. We've seen in the document that there are reasons for an emergency procedure. You can see what this is about. Therefore, on the inability, i.e. the work of the authorities and organisations covered by the proposed laws, and I believe that the Assembly did not, or I, harm Article 167. The legislator will explain the urgency of the procedure in his address. I can only ask you if you are satisfied with the explanation and do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11404	Thank you. Since we will have the opportunity to discuss details during the search today and the discussion of the details on Sunday, allow me just a few brief notes on the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11405	Minister, the sound's bad. Approach the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11406	Since we're going to have a chance to discuss this today and debate on Sunday in detail to discuss the details at this point I'd just like to make some basic remarks about this budget rebalancing. As you know, budget rebalancing every year is brought in order to allow for the smooth functioning of state authorities and organisations through orderly implementation of the budget i.e. the payment of expenditure and expenditure and compliance with those elements of achievements which could not be predicted. In this year we had a whole series of events that we couldn't predict, like floods, like a much lower rate of growth and a lower rate of so-called rate. the social product deflator, or lower inflation rate in this particular case. Instead of the planned growth rate plus 1% we have a growth rate that will be a real growth rate, which will be minus 1%, and certainly also lower depending on the accuracy of our estimates by the end of the year. Secondly, we had a flood effect that affected not only real growth but affected the normality of economic flows and thus the income side of the budget. Thirdly, we have had changes in certain items of the budget that the rebalancing needs to be realized to ensure normal functioning and payment of elements on the dissipating side. In addition, during the summer, the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance was amended by reducing the contribution of the Health Insurance Fund from 12.3% to 10.3%, i.e. increased contributions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund from 24% to 26%. This alone required amending the budget to reflect these changes in all the elements of the budget. These are the details given in the rebalancing proposal. I wouldn't go any further in detail. Due to these developments during the year, which could not be predicted at the beginning of the year, in the 2014 Budget Law, we set out from an estimate of the social product at the level of four thousand and eight billion and the budget deficit, which was based at the beginning of the year on the estimated income of 929,9 billion and the expenditure of 1093.7 billion, the deficit was 4.55 budgets. During the year, there was, of course, a derogation as it has been every year, less than 33 billion on the side of the revenue, and more than 16 billion on the spending side. In social product percentages at the beginning of the year when we passed the law, the deficit was 4.55 of the social product, and based on the latest estimates of the social product, the deficit was increased by only 0.1%, so the initial deficit increased by 0.1% due to the change in the social product. Let me remind you, you probably followed, except for the rate of growth from plus one to negative one, except for the decline in inflation contained in the social product from 5% to 2.1%, yesterday I made a lapus, and I said 1.2% instead of, so 2.1%, there was a decline in the nominal social product. The decline would have been much greater than that shown in the budget documents, had it not been for the adjustment of the social accounting of the social product to the 2010 standards. After these adjustments, the social product has increased from some 3,733 billion to 3,933 billion, a methodology that is applied throughout Europe, and Serbia is experiencing circumstances among countries that have the most relative change in social product assessment by proper application of this methodology. Of course, we're going to do and everyone's going to do a time series review, so we're going to adapt all the data we're reporting on the budget in the previous years to these figures, but it's important that you keep in mind that there's been a change. Based on the numbers I've told you, the budget deficit has risen from 164 to 213 billion. However, it is a deficit before the inclusion of cost elements that do not enter the standard assessment. In addition to these changes, not to go into detail now, the deficit has increased from the expected 183.6 billion to 224.8 billion, or practically to 225 billion. The Fiscal Council document, which you may have received, speaks of a second level of deficit. In our methodology, this is not considered a deficit of the republican budget, but considered a financing of the republican budget. We can discuss this in more detail. Here I would just like to say that all the elements of this funding are given in the draft budget and are contained in the table on page five and all of these elements which are primarily related to guarantees given and activated, relating to investments in public enterprises, capitalisation, intervention aid, etc. By international methodology, all these sizes enter the deficit. According to our methodology, they are treated part of the funding. It is up to you to assess whether and when we change our methodology and express it, it is up to us as a pronoun to put all the elements that enter into any kind of calculation open on paper before you and you yourself will assess whether in your account and discussion you will consider it and treat it as a deficit or as financing elements. I think that later in the debate we'll be able to make it more clear, but I just think it's important that the MPs and the people know, the public knows that there are several categories here. The guarantees that have been realised are real costs and in fact, in our opinion, they should be above the line, i.e. the component of the deficit. These are guarantees that primarily relate to public enterprises that you all know – "Srbigas", "The Ways of Serbia", "The Railway of Serbia", etc. Those guarantees that have been given and have not been realised is an assessment of whether they are considered deficits or not. They certainly go into debt, and the question is when and where they enter the deficit. The third category that is significant to us, which has not been adequately treated so far, is the category of capitalization. So, when the state, based on a programme of resuscitation of a company or a bank, invests funds in recapitalisation, then, according to some conservative standards, it goes immediately into spending and into deficits and at the same time goes into debt. However, according to realistic accounting standards, it is a matter of risk and recapitalisation. So when we give funds to capitalize on the postal savings bank, there's no reason to consider it a 100% risk investment that's going to turn into a payment. It goes into debt, but it doesn't have to be a 100% risk investment, as some conservative investors estimate. I would not like to continue to develop this debate, it is up to you to assess to what extent we will adapt our methodology and accept the methodology of international organisations, or to correct our methodology. As for the dynamics of realisation of deficits over the year, we have an uneven dynamic of income and budget expenditure. Over the first eight months, total revenues fell from the previous year, but the dynamics of the last two or three months are positive. We have income growth from both excise and VAT. So, even though less revenue has been achieved at the level of the year for 33 billion, the dynamics of the last months say it is possible to improve it by the end of the year and in the following year in particular. In addition to the notice that I said at the beginning – why we are now bringing rebalancing, let me extend that the thesis and say that in this year, the rebalance is not only to enable the realisation of the budget and to take into account the changes that have taken place, but also to start the reforms that are ahead of us. This year is a specific one. This rebalancing introduces a key element of future reforms, which is the reduction of expenditure. The real impact of spending cuts on budget deficits and budget performance this year is not great, but the symbolic importance, the recognition of these reforms and their inclusion and obtaining both public and public approvals and MPs is very important, that in the next year and in the 2015 budget, which will be before you as planned in the second half of December, we expect that the discussion will now accept the basic strategic directions of fiscal consolidation in the period 2015. - 2017. What is very significant, this rebalancing reflects the weight and negative impact of the public sector, especially public enterprises on the deficit, i.e. the country's debt. It's about time we deal with this problem, find the right and lasting solutions. In recent years, public enterprises have been one of the main sources of increasing debt and deficits, and we need to find the right way to see the shortcomings calmly, increase efficiency, improve the quality of management of these companies and close a hole through which valuable and limited resources are poured out. This will be the main space for additional savings and will be the main and component of the reform programme that we expect in the coming period. We expect that in the coming period, too, we may not be largely in numbers, but to a large extent in our efforts to increase the collection of public revenues. There's a huge room for public revenue collection. I just want to mention that in this year's fiscal strategy, we were planning to have action for tobacco products at 100 billion levels, and they come true at 80 billion, even less. These are serious losses of income that cannot be compensated so easily on other sides. The importance of this rebalancing is to put on the table and to approve one of the key pillars of future reform, which is both expenditure and income, on the one hand, and two structural reforms. The resolution of the issues of old enterprises in restructuring, which have been in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency for years, has been approved by this Parliament by the new Law on privatisation and bankruptcy on the basis of which 502 companies have been announced to collect offers from investors, potential partners, whether they are or not privatised, restructured and able to live in a real economic situation or to approach through the necessary bankruptcy process in order to find another solution for them. So far, offers have been received for about 375 companies. We expect that this process, within the legal time limit, will be made public either by a tender or by a call for tenders. The deadline expires 45 days after the first deadline of 15 September, so at the end of October we expect the deadline and expect it to be respected by the Agency, and after that it will allow the Ministry of Economy to assess these offers and proceed in a process that will finalise the status of these companies. Why are we bringing this programme of measures, why are we bringing rebalancing? As I said, this rebalance will have a very small impact on the deficit and on the movement of income and expenditure, but it will begin the process of reforms that is crucial. Everyone asks us a question -- why are you doing reforms, are you in a financial and fiscal crisis? No, we've never had a larger fiscal reserve, about two billion euros. We've never had a larger foreign reserve. We do it on time. The transformation process and the reform that has been ahead of us takes two to three years. That is why we want, on a timely basis, from political resolve and a professionally defined credibility programme that will support the IMF and international organisations and all investors who have invested billions in Serbia since 2011, when Serbia has entered the capital market, to start a programme that will bring us back to a sustainable path, both the fiscal sustainable pathway and the path of sustainable economic development with impressive rates that will allow for reducing unemployment and increasing the well-being of the population. Therefore, Serbia is neither threatened by the problem of liquidity nor by fiscal, international or bankruptcy. Serbia wants to start these reforms in time to have enough time to bring these reforms to the final. Some things, such as cutting costs, are short-term measures and so on. They're hard-core. That is why we are starting this process with them, and that is why we are putting them in this budget rebalance, so as to add to those measures other cost savings measures, such as reducing non-performing subsidies and reducing transfers that are not justified. We have a whole series of areas where subsidies are too large. You yourself have already indicated this in your discussions and comments. I think the budget for next year will make it clear and show which subsidies do not have the basis for the participation of subsidies in the social product that must be brought to the level of European standards, or from the point of view of the results that are being achieved. It is difficult to justify subsidies granted to agricultural production and owners who have over 20 to 100 hectares of land. These are commercial holdings that should not rest on subsidies, must rest on commercial accounts and competitiveness, both domestic and international markets. We will also review all subsidies given to companies that do not have clear development programmes. So it can be justified that someone deserves a subsidy, but based on proven market weaknesses or external shocks, domestic or international, or a clear development programme, but not on the continuing need to finance someone a deficit that does not decrease and does not rationalise. I'll try to give some more interesting examples, so fellow MPs have enough interest in what's going on with us. Just a few illustrations why measures are proposed to reduce costs on the side of pensions and wages in the way they are proposed. So the total reduction proposed in pensions and wages should lead not only to cost cuts and the closure of deficits, but also to a change in behaviour. Why did we have to go to retirement and pay cuts? If you look at our data from 2009 to 2012, an extraordinary increase in pensions has led to an increase in expenditure of 169.3 billion dinars, without providing a permanent source of income that would cover it. Similar increases occurred in both wages and other cost elements, which we were unable to influence. It's the condition we inherited. In the deficit I mentioned at the outset, the contribution to the deficit was the increase in costs, on the one hand, and the drop in revenues, on the other. The reduction in wages and pensions, only parts of pensions, as the largest number of pensioners will be excluded from this reduction, i.e. 1,039.000 pensioners who have pensions below 25,000 dinars per month will not be affected by this reduction, nor will people who work in the public sector be affected and have salaries below 25,000. The rest of the pay and pension reduction burdens will be allocated proportionally 10% to all public sector employees, including direct and indirect beneficiaries of budget and public enterprises, and pensions will be allocated at an increasing limit rate, so that higher burdens are borne by those who have higher pensions than those who have lower pensions. I must stress that less than 10% of the cuts will have 1,510,000 pensioners, which is 87.5 percent of all pensioners, and these are those who have pensions of less than 40,000. So, the vast majority of pensioners, almost 90%, or they're not going to have any cuts or they're going to have a decrease of less than 10%. The minority, which has over 40,000, will have a reduction of more than 10%, and these are the people I think will accept this reduction because they have a solid economic position to take such a blow. I received a question – why will a pensioner with 50,000 have a greater reduction than a public sector employee with 50,000? Except for this logic of distribution of pensions and wages, there is one essential element of cost difference. I know that, because my parents were in this situation, and that's the situation with everyone. Those who work have higher costs than those who retire. Just the fact that someone's working, that they're coming to work, that they have to buy a suit for work and everything else increases the costs of these people, and the difference is minimal. At the level of 50,000, those with salaries will receive a 5.000 cut, and those with a pension reduction of 5,800 dinars. Thank you very much. I see she's already given in. Therefore, I hope that our attention will be sufficient for the discussion that follows.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11407	Thank you, Minister. The first speaker is Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11408	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have before us a set of economic laws: the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Rebalancing of the 2014 Budget, the Proposal for a Law on the Provisional Arrangement of Payments and Payments Bases, i.e. Profits and other Permanent Receipts of Public Assets Users, the Proposal for a Provisional Arrangement on how to Pay Pensions, and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Register of Obliged Social Insurance. I will state the views of the SVM parliamentary group on these laws. First of all, I have to show respect for the government for sincerely expressing the actual state of our country's financial system, which has said that we are in great trouble and with one brave but unpopular measure, we can get out of this crisis, or at least start with the exit, and this will be the first steps of unpopular measures. I must say that so far, no government should have brought such measures because, as I said, they are not popular and they are painful. But since no measures have been taken, we have kept sinking deeper and deeper into the economic crisis. That's why it's high time we started getting out of this crisis. As we heard, the budget rebalance predicted a greater deficit than we had, a deficit greater than about 50 billion dinars. We've seen our incomes cut, and our expenditures are up. The income has been reduced because some of the measures, what we have brought so far as to curb the grey economy and the black market and tax collection, have not brought much...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11409	I'll give you your time back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11410	So we have to say, unfortunately, we spend more than we have money. We have to stop this trend with the austerity measures we're going to discuss today. These are measures which, unfortunately, reduce the salaries of public funds users and pensions. These two items, salaries and pensions, are the largest items on the spent side of the budget, and that's why we think we need to start saving with them. Since it's the end of October and Mr. Minister said the rebalancing we're bringing will take another two months, so the time period isn't too big to have any positive effect on these laws. Because, as we know, pension payments and salary payments are a month late. So in this rebalancing of this change will only be shown in one month. The other results will be seen next year, in the 2015 budget. Since we know we don't have a better solution, and we've come to a point where something has to be done, we've started with heavy and rigorous austerity measures that will last not only these, but for the next three years, the SVM parliamentary group will vote for these laws, to support the government. This government has so far drawn on the so-called so-called government. unpopular measures that no government should ever have. We have to give up something to have something in the future. Figuratively speaking, we've reached the bottom of the lake and we need to bounce from the bottom, so we can swim to the surface. I have yet to point out another measure of the government that was not mentioned here, the Regulation was adopted on 15 October, and it is a regulation on the social inclusion of beneficiaries of social aid, so the Government has adopted one Regulation that will require all labour-efficient social assistance users to be educated, to treat and work, in order to achieve this right. This is one specific regulation for our society, because one regulation like this could not have been passed by any government. We don't think this is a newspaper, because there are a lot of countries in the world that use this tactics or strategy. To receive social assistance, there is a certain form of engagement in the world. Now we're gonna have that, too. The attitude of SVM is such that we are convinced that a social assistance programme must be changed. It is totally unacceptable for us that the state gives without any restrictions on social assistance to multiple returnees in committing crimes. As I have read, these measures are already being applied by some of the municipalities in our country. It's Nis and one municipality in the north of Vojvodina, Ada. So we already have some municipalities that use similar measures. As far as budget rebalancing is concerned, every year when it comes to budget or budget rebalance, we have raised the subject of Vojvodina and the famous 7%. So far, we thought that the only solution to this problem was the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. If I remember correctly, since 8 August we have a new finance minister and, unfortunately, no working group has been formed to this day to work on this law. I hope that the government will decide to form this task force and that as soon as possible make this law. We have submitted an amendment to the budget rebalancing, and it refers to the funds for the work of the SANU Inter-Academic Commission and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The commission was formed with the goal of the two countries' academics working to identify civilian victims in Vojvodina during and after World War II. The 2014 budget law unfortunately did not provide for funds for the work of the Serbian part of the international commission and what we have proposed with this amendment, it is two million dinars to cover the commission's work costs for the next two months and to make it worth it. I need to point out here that the register, what this commission is doing, is pretty pervasive, has about 16,000 victims. As regards the law on temporary adjustment of pension payments, a reduction of pensions was introduced from 1 November to 31 December 2017. It's positive in this law that they won't touch those pensions that are below 25,000 dinars. Here, it should be pointed out that the reduction of pensions under this law has been done in a progressive way. So pensions from 25 to 40,000 dinars are going to decrease by multiplying one coefficient of 0.22, which is about 22% and that's going to be a reduction for these pensions. And these pensions that are more than 40,000 dinars, unlike total pensions and 40,000 dinars, that difference is going to multiply by 0.25%. The most important thing here is that 60 percent of pensioners aren't touched. So, those pensioners who have really small pensions, who live on the edge of social life, they're not touched. It's about a million and thirty-nine thousand pensioners, a total of about 60 percent of pensioners. The common line is there is between this law and the Law on wage cuts, the line of the bottom or the upper border of wages is 25,000 dinars. So, with those salaries paid by up to 25,000 dinars and operating in the public sector, they won't be reduced. Here's a pay cut at a linear level. So they're going to cut 10% of each one's salary. As Mr. Minister said yesterday on the board, salaries by 27,800 dinars will not be cut linearly, but up to 25,000 dinars will be paid. So if someone's made 26,000 dinars by now, only a thousand dinars will be deducted from his salary, they'll get 25,000 dinars. These measures start from 1 November and will continue until 31 December 2017. This law, the Law on Salaries, is good in that part that it will apply to the entire public sector, including public enterprises, all direct and indirect beneficiaries of budget funds, from the Republic of Serbia to the lowest level, to local self-government. It has not been so far, including the National Bank of Serbia. It is good news in this law that there are also control measures, to see if the law is respected and if someone does not comply with the law, there are certain criminal measures. I think that's a positive thing. As of 31 October, the so-called so-called "solidar tax" and with the effect of these laws, we will have these concrete measures of financial consolidation. The difference between a solidarity tax and these measures is that these measures also take into account pensions. The SVM parliamentary group will vote in favour of these laws, since we think it is the deadline and it is high time to start with serious measures and austerity measures and we hope that these measures will bring their influence and will positively reflect the next few years on the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11411	The word is made by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for not arriving at the beginning of the session. You know how much I respect Parliament. There were other commitments with the German parliamentarians and representatives of the World Bank, and also with regard to the rebalancing and budget of 2015, and I ask you once again to forgive me for my little delay. I would like to take this opportunity because it is an important topic, although I know that everyone wants to escape both political parties and some ministers and many others. I don't want to run away from something I'm proud of, something I think we deserve a good grade of our citizens, the same way we got from all the important people in the whole world. I'll talk about it later. For the first time in Serbian history, something like this is happening in modern political Serbian history. We are also going to admit that we are clearly and unequivocally talking about the situation our country is in and we are talking about how to get out of this situation and crisis. As Martin Luther from the beginning of the 16th century did not seek a solution in greater debauchery and in how and how much more money we need and how much more money we can spend and it is our job to look for a solution in our work, in self-burning and in being more successful than others, to be more diligent and better than others. Five months ago, from the formation of this government and my address to you, the honourable MPs, and the citizens of Serbia, and while I thought about everything we did and about what we should do, I will remind you of just some of the laws, the laws that everyone today praises all over the world, which is why you are all proud when you go to the world, and you who have criticised them here, of those laws, you keep quiet everywhere in the world, and now you attack us for a visit to Putin wherever you go, saying that Serbia has drawn close to Russia, because you can't say that you're much stronger than Putin. You've been keeping your mouth shut here for the domestic public, and you've criticized our Labour Act much harder than Putin, so you're boasting about that law, because the Labour Act can only be praised everywhere in the world, in every place. By law on labour and the Law on Privatisation, the law on bankruptcy, the law on which we retired to a higher limit in order to at least try to reach Montenegro and Montenegro in some ways, I am talking about Germany and some other countries. We also announced fiscal consolidation measures at the time, and we never hid anything from our people for a moment. I announced these measures over a month ago, not wanting to be announced by anyone else, not hiding behind someone else. Minister Vujovic is a very professional man. He worked for twenty-one years at the World Bank. Lazar Krstic is a very professional man. He asked us to go with 25% pension cuts, 20% salary cuts, if I'm not mistaken, or vice versa, don't hold my word. So why? He asked because our state of public finances is such that we have to change something. I know that ordinary people, that ordinary citizens don't have to know what the state of our public finances is, what the state of our state budget is, what the situation is in the consolidated state at all, and I mean the municipalities, the public enterprises, everything else, they don't have to know, but we have to inform them. I brought a lot of tables and a lot of data here. To those who say we don't have macroeconomic stability, I have to say they're not telling the truth. We have a more pronounced macroeconomic stability than we have ever had in modern political history. We have foreign exchange reserves between 10 and 11 billion, a course more stable than ever, I have a table, I can show you and prove to you, in the last ten years. Also, for the first time we have, see if your camera can do it so the viewers can see, for the first time we have a dramatic drop in inflation, we almost have negative inflation, which we don't brag about, we're just talking about macroeconomic stability. For the first time in Serbia's modern history, we do not have an increase in the number of unemployed, but we have a decline of the unemployed, not only in the Republic Statistics Institute, but also in very precise data from the National Employment Service. We'll also talk about that later on how and how we're going to do 46. 588 people dared to reduce the number of unemployed in our country. During his time, Duško Radovic said nicely about something that is happening to us today. He said: “That is what we need. Until we admitted we had problems we didn't even have to solve them." We lived in fairy tales all the time, we didn't talk about problems. It's changed that today we talk openly about problems, that we don't hide them from anyone, and that we're looking to solve them. We were able to say that everything was wonderful, that we were very rich and successful, that there was no problem and that we weren't doing anything for the next year or two. We would have made it this way to bankruptcy somewhere in early 2017 or late 2016 if we hadn't changed anything. When you see the table on the cost of wages and pensions, please see, you will see that it was actually politically done and you will see what was a crime towards Serbia. Look at 2008 and 2009 and 2012 in the years you see how you're jumping wrong with the increase in wages and pensions just to get people's trust, because the people for nothing else for certain political parties couldn't vote. I am proud of the fact that this blame does not grow in 2014, when elections were also held. It was the first time that such guilt did not grow and that someone acted responsibly toward his people. We tried to tell people here five months ago, before I made a decision on what measures to implement and what reforms in Serbia, we entered the campaign, if you remember, with painful reforms, but that those reforms have to endure in order for this country to be normal and that people can judge and appreciate the results after two years, what it is that we have done. Before we tried this, I'm afraid we looked like a bigot where we were slowly drowning and cooking, and those around us were yelling that we weren't worried and that there was no problem. We were Rome whose emperor claimed he hadn't set fire to him and that we didn't have to flee from our houses and ship whose captain silenced the passengers that he hit the iceberg. I've already said that, on that ship up to half-drunk, this government has boarded because of Serbia, and because of its future, it has had to stop everything we've done in the past. One, we had to stop lying and deceive our people. That's what we did. Whatever you have to say and resent today, two things you can't do, and that's to lie and deceive the people and not stick to the agenda I published here in the exposé. There was no honey or milk in that agenda. There's been a lot of work, there's been a lot of pain that we have to endure and the sacrifices we have to endure. Sometimes I'm afraid to say, but unfortunately it's true that when you ask Serbs and citizens of Serbia if you're for change, everyone is, and when it comes to change, we're not exactly for change, because they're hitting us and we have to do something, and we're better off if someone else does something and something falls out of the sky. In recent days, I've been listening to all-powerful theories about how it's possible to take someone else anywhere else, not us. For a year, we've been doing this job together with the IMF, along with the World Bank, along with the Fiscal Council, along with all of the absolutely most professional people. Our goal was just one -- to reduce the fiscal deficit, to stop that growth of our public debt, thanks to irresponsible decisions from 2008 and 2009, and then to show you in figures how it goes through interest and through increasing our public debt, and how and how to stop it, while at the same time those who are the poorest, those who are the hardest to endure it can not be affected. The most important thing we did was confront Serbia, us, the way our country is and who we are, what we became when we were convinced that we were doing just fine and that we would be even better and that something from the sky would fall. There was one promise that we wouldn't act like those Tolstoy heroes who kept saying that they would change the world, and they never wanted to change themselves. This government has changed itself and will not hesitate to change itself in the future. When we were fucking someone's expenses and we were thinking about it, we were always starting with ourselves. Some of them told us -- you're touching the poorest. The truth is, 61% of pensioners will in no way feel any measure. I didn't say 6.1%, 6.1% is a significant percentage of people. I said 61% of pensioners, 1,038,000 of them out of 1,744,000. If you look well, up to 30,000 pensioners, it will be only 3% pension cuts, up to 35,000 – 6%. It's already, I'm sorry I want to bring you that information, 72.5% of the pensioners. So, somewhere we had to save, because how much we don't make, because someone with privatization destroyed a gross domestic product. Someone broke our future with robbery privatisations, and those people didn't produce anything except to put money in their pockets and some today dare to tell us that we don't protect the poor, and 19%, almost 20% of the workers who have the lowest wages, up to 25,000 dinars, will feel nothing. It's more than 50% of pensioners, 51.5% of pensioners and public sector workers who won't feel at all. So most of the public sector and pensioners will not feel the measures at all. It is deliberately silenced in the local public, and it is all a shame to say because we wanted to protect the poor above all. We wanted to protect those who had the least, to give them the chance to have more in the future with our work. Some dared to read us lessons about tycoons and said in the previous days how we, they say, protect the tycoons. I, ladies and gentlemen, will now read to you how much they charged from the tycoon and how much we charged. By the way, let me remind you, he set the deadline for paying taxes, almost out of date three months ago, Mr. Rankovic, Predrag Rankovic Peconi. We charged him 12 days ago nine million euros and therefore now have problems and a certain delay in paying excise duties. With these unpaid excise duties, which will be paid in the coming days, we have, I want to cheer you up and I want to cheer the citizens of Serbia who are taking care of this country, I want to cheer you up by the fact that for the first time we have an oil excise charge above what is planned, above the plan, for the first time the excise duty on cigarettes is growing on us in August, September and October thanks to the fight against organised crime, smuggling, smuggling and cut tobacco, against cigarette smuggling in boxing from Macedonia, from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'll read you all of these I've come to, some of them call tycoons, to see. "Luka Belgrade", the total amount of debt on 30.09.2014, to break that story once and for all, is 958,423,491 dinar. The taxpayer has submitted a pre-prepared re-oganisation plan to the court in charge. In the period from 1.01.2014 to 23.10.2014 a total of 170,253,019 dinars were charged to date. Do you know how much has been charged in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011? Four years. So much for protecting the tycoon and the poor in this country. A total of four years four times less. The ‘investment measure’ doo Marko Miskovic, the total debt amount is 878.404.131 dinar. In the period from 1.01.2014 to 23.10.2014 a total of 163,633 dinars were charged, almost nothing now you will hear why. The administrative dispute is under way following a solution to the field control which determines the tax liability. They don't recognize that tax liability. The tax liability of some others, who are now criticizing us, they have neither established it nor established it. We've established it and we'll charge it. So much for protecting the tycoon and the poor. Now we're coming to Željko Mitrovic, TV Pink, so I'm going to go back to these miracles from "Concern Farm" and some other. Total debt Pink International on 30.09. 2014 is 412,495,811 dinars. In just eight months, 874,260,529 dinars were charged. The maximum charge was charged in 2010 to 729 million. So, by the end of this year, another 300 million will be paid, so also, about 50% more than was paid most in years when those who persecuted the tycoons and protected the poor, led this country. As for Farmacoma, I'm the biggest problem here. It is the political child of a party who made a monster, a monster that is exposed to banks of 400m euros. What we're going to do -- we don't know if he or anyone else owns "Politicals" we don't know. No one lives knows, but we just know that 400m euros in banks can't get back. All we know is that today we have to solve the water that pollutes life and tortures people in the Loznica and the Loznica area, only we have to take all of it, and someone has approved 400 million euros, the money of this country, and none of it is coming out of it today. So much for protecting the tycoon and so much for protecting the poor in this country. Where do we have serious problems? We have some companies in Dragan Djuric, we have fewer problems somewhere, we charge for it. Let's say, "Monus" where the debt is, Percevic is huge debts. That's one, I'm ashamed to say what I think of this company, but you'll see the result of the work of the competent state authorities soon. Thank you for reminding me, and also huge exposure to banks, and I'm going to give you this information a little later and all in a cheating way, if I can afford it without you getting angry about it. At least in a cheating way. As you can see, I don't have it, is it left, right, each one the same. Whoever stole the state knows what's going to happen, those who didn't pay taxes will pay taxes. "Monus" because it is a large taxpayer and they pay a lot in the state budget, I think the fifth taxpayer in Serbia totals 180 million. A total of two billion 384 million and 36 dinars have been charged for the first 10 months. I think we did a good job. I think it's a fair and responsible job. "Pink International" I said, everything is "Parmakom". Wherever I turn, it's Farmacom. If you have any more questions, I'll have to give you information on the largest and most catering facilities in all these rafts. I'm ashamed to tell you that in 70% of cases they have double accounting, double computers, that nothing goes to the state, or almost nothing goes to the state. I must say, I was very saddened by the fact that we had a protest because the inspection requires someone to pay the tax. I've seen a lot of things in my life, and I've seen a lot of things, and I don't need voices, but I need respect for this country. To protest because someone's asking you for fiscal bills and fiscal bills, to protest because someone's asking you to report workers, well, you're going to report workers and you're going to issue fiscal accounts, and you're going out on the streets and you're complaining as much as you want. Now, that's how the state is going to behave, and in the end, all the people in the country will have respect for such a state, because we've had an impact on the tax administration before, don't wait a little longer today, I'm going to pick it up from the Business Bank, from the Serbian Bank, from the University, from here and from there, and I'm going to settle it in two or three days, and that's how we destroyed the country. Tell me who can now raise 20 million euros in credit from them. Who? He could, as Percevic said in "SBER Bank" in a political way once more. That was the end, from the beginning of 2013. Who can? Show me that tycoon. He's gone and it's changed in Serbia. That's why Serbia is slowly, but surely becoming an incomparably normal country. And that's why we tried to show that we're going to take the most from ourselves. By the way, as far as pay goes, what you said last time to hit the most professional doctors, the most professional university professors, we've now taken less from them than has been taken from them, and they're going to have bigger receipts than they had yesterday. So, everyone who has over 100,000 dinars of pay will have more income than they had at the time of the solidarity tax. Let's just make that argument clear. So, quoting you, to those who are most professional, to those who carry our company, and I'm not... I know when it comes to tycoons and the poor, you're always a little nervous, but there's no need for that. I believed you were looking forward to my coming to parliament today, because you're going to get rid of me today, to beat me convincingly, and to show that we're not good and that you're very good. So, just show some patience. But you seem to realize that it's never worked out for you before, so it's not going to happen today. So it's ours to make our own accounts to our people. I am not smiling because it is easy for me to take the most unpopular measures in Serbia's history, the most difficult measures in Serbia's history. Thank you, Members of the SVM for noticing. Thank you for noticing that, because when you talk about it, I can also say that by talking to Victor Orban, he asked me – can you survive, congratulating on measures, because he had to face such wages three years ago, in 2011, if I'm not mistaken, with a similar problem. That's what President Putin did. President Putin himself told me – congratulations on the courage, on what you did. That's what she did, unfortunately for you and Angela Merkel. I'm sure 2016 will be done by all our citizens and all the citizens who support you today. No, nobody's happy, you don't have to throw. Nobody's happy. Me at least. I haven't slept in a year and worked together with other people to make the best possible program, to make the best possible program for the country to get out of the crisis. I'm smiling because my conscience is clear, because I've charged everything I can for the tycoons, because I've fought for the poor and because I'm going to do everything I can to make Serbia live normally and that Serbia lives richer and Serbia will live richer. We have to depend on our work, on the quantity and quality of that work. Certainly, I am fully convinced that we can accomplish much more by doing this work than we have done so far. I am absolutely sure that in the next period, if we are together, I don't mean political parties, there are some political parties that will hold you, for which by yesterday the power lines were fine, and since yesterday, the power lines have been poisoning and producing cancer in the human organism, it's impossible for you to talk, and you don't need to participate in that conversation. We should participate in a conversation with those who have arguments and should participate in a conversation with our people. It takes our citizens, angry that after years and decades of false promises they don't live better, but we ask them for patience for only a year and a half or two, which we will have to receive the burden of all attacks, the burden of their anger, anger, sometimes hate, but I am fully convinced that these people will understand what our goal is. Why are we saving? We save to reduce the difference between what we earn and what we spend. We are saving to be more responsible for our public finances and to start by the end of 2016 to lower our public debt. We are saving because, in the meantime, we will have the strength to increase Serbia's growth despite a minimal reduction in aggregate demand, and this year, it will be less than we expected, to 0.4%, despite the catastrophic floods you all forget, and the fall is primarily due to the production of coal and electricity. Otherwise, we would be positive even in spite of the floods and despite the elections and despite everything. The next year, 2015, after baseball, if I'm not mistaken, 1.15 is our growth, for 2016 per baseball line is 1.6 or 1.7, and I'm telling you now that if we finish the job, and we're never closer to the Irons, and if we finish our work with the complete petrochemical chemical complex, Azotar and MSK, and I think we're going to end this in the most recent time, that growth will be incomparably larger and be at the level of the most developed European countries. When your GDP increases, then we are given the opportunity to increase the income of citizens, pensions and salaries. That's why I asked for everyone's support. That's why I'm asking for the support of the people so that people understand that only together can we do it. We can't help it, believe me. There's no other plan. You'll hear a thousand ideas. It's like football to you. You'll find, you don't need Messie to play for that team and that team. In the end, without the Messiah, he can't be in that team. However you turn, you can't play past the rules of the world, past the rules of basic economics as the IMF and the World Bank speak about them, and everyone will, as much as today or tomorrow, when you adopt the rebalancing and the proposed laws, all will support what we do. They won't support it. It was supported yesterday by Vice-President of the European Commission Katainen in the clearest possible way. Serbia is the first South European country to do so without pressure. Look at Estonia, Estonia has successfully implemented these reforms. We want to be more successful than Estonia. Portugal has managed to implement these reforms. We want to be more successful than them. We don't want to ask for charity from anyone and be a supportive country and a supportive face. We want to make our own money. We want to do more and we want to have respect than anyone. For the first time in two months, we have all the indicators either relatively good or very good. Something came through with discipline. Something has been achieved by the fierce struggle against the gray economy, by some of the measures we've taken. In this regard, we have been greatly contributed by the very modern Labour Act that we have brought, and this is today the main invitation and the German investors who were and who came here on November 17th. I'm talking about them because they're always lacmus paper for everyone else. The French Prime Minister brings 30 of the largest French companies with him here on November 6th and 7th, and they will all show great respect for both you and our country and our people for the reforms we have begun to implement. I want to ask you dear friends, I'm going to answer questions, we're going to take all the data out, all those who are skeptical by the measures to think of only one thing, and think about you honourable MPs, what is the motive of someone who wants to propose such measures? There are only two possibilities. One is that he wants to take action, which I think is the job of statesmen and politicians to take difficult and unpleasant measures, not to tell the people something nice and never to show the results and never to have results. It's one thing that you want to do something with your country and that your country is making progress, but that it takes painful steps or that it's on the other hand that you purposely want to destroy yourself, your political party and all the people who are with you. To this I have a simple answer – I love the party I run, our coalition partners, I talked to Mr. Krkobic, I talked to Mr. Dacic, Mr. Ljajic, Istvan Pastor, I talked to everyone, and each of them will bear part of the burden for the heavy measures we carry. I'm the most guilty. I am the most responsible, and I am not running away from it, although I know that in 2016 everyone else will be much more responsible than me and everyone like these today will be out of the opposition to go around the world and praise the Labour Act and to whine about Putin and to whine about Serbia who receives Putin, because that's all they have left in their sleeve. Don't worry, we're not ashamed of Putin, not one of our guests, unlike you. So, even though this is going to happen, we are doing this because Serbia is more important to us than our political parties and it does not have to be the ruling party after the next elections, but Serbia will be a healthier, normal, successful, modern and prosperous country. It's a task and that's what I swore in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11413	I thank the Prime Minister for his explanation. The next speaker is Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11414	Dear Prime Minister, respected ministers, respected parliamentary presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, Serbia has often chosen a bad path in the past to move in the future. Our past mistakes cost us. In the last decade of the 20th century and in the first decade of the 21st century, the only thing that missed us was the accident. The breakup of the former Yugoslavia has destroyed Serbia. Let's think of the short 90s, remember the wars in Croatia, BiH and finally the KIM. All of this has caused victims, refugee convoys, let down hope, a sense of rejection and all kinds of defeat, a moral sunflower. This has affected the economy – we had the largest inflation in the history of the modern world, the lines of bread, oil, sugar, a completely extinguished economy under the pressure of sanctions, the bombing in which industry was destroyed, the plants of the dedicated industry, the road infrastructure. Then he came on October 5th. The expectations were high. Hope at its peak, the dream of a more beautiful Serbia in just a few years has turned into a nightmare, a nightmare. The economy that survived was privatised by the Buraser principle, and people came out of Milosevic's stable, which was exploited by the 90s, suddenly becoming Serbian sheiks, tycoons, Serbian masters. It never occurred to anyone to do anything to stop them on the way to destruction. Put yourself in charge, it was the only financial activity and everything comes up. Today's generations pay a tax of irresponsible politics. We from the SPO will vote to adopt the proposed rebalancing aware that these measures are not popular, but they are obviously only possible. We're dealing with essentials, not individual items, appraisals, economic classifications. No one wants to make unpopular moves. What kind of politician or government does he like to carry out unpopular measures anywhere in the world? None, but there is something that is necessary and only possible solution or best solution in order to have perspective, the possibility of recovery. Until a few years ago, I was asking questions about the level of the Serb tycoon tax debt and I never got answers. It's different today. They're pressured to settle their obligations to the state. The tax administration came out with data on their debt, and the prime minister spoke about it in his statement. I hope we can make it as a state to collect all claims regardless of what the laws are made in the past to protect the richest. The Serbian Renewal Movement will support the proposed budget rebalancing because it allows us to continue co-operation with the IMF without which Serbia has no economic stability because the only new economic policy and extorted measures protect us from the financial collapse and give us hope that we will live in the future in a more recovered, richer Serbia. The fact is that in this year we are hit by natural disasters such as do not remember Serbia's newer history. All of this has affected certain negative effects that can be read in this budget. We are in great temptations. In the end, the economic stability of the whole of Europe has been shaken by the disturbed relations between major forces due to different views on the Ukrainian crisis. The Serbian Renewal Movement has always advocated making decisions that will put us in line with the countries that are responsible, not populist. And now we think that the only way to recover our economy is to co-operate with international financial institutions and influence investment. The prerequisite for this is the economic stability that we must secure as a state. It should be noted that thanks to Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic's foreign policy initiative, Serbia's position in major forces has been improved, so the great forces are now our allies, friends and those who want to invest. So, finally, our allies are the ones who can and want to help us, to cooperate with us. Finally, our allies see Serbia as their partner. It's up to us to create an economic environment to allow them to place their investments. Investments include employment, deficit reduction, public sector discharge, job recovery and shifting economic movements to healthy market bases. So I repeat once again that the SPO supports the proposed budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11415	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11416	Madam President, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a rebalancing that is no ordinary rebalancing. This is a rebalancing that is actually the beginning of the reforms that we have announced together in the pre-election campaign. This morning when I was moving here to the Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, my mother who's retired asked me, son, do you have to vote for that budget? What I am pleased with is that you have fully explained in your speech the reasons why we should vote for the budget and why, by voting for this budget rebalance today, we are voting for, above all, the future of our children, because this rebalance is actually an indicator of the current state of finance in Serbia. In order to have a safer future tomorrow, these measures are fully clearly armed, and that is what I am pleased to do personally and to my colleagues from New Serbia, that we have a clear, first time, ample measure that will give clear and exact results. What I would simply draw your attention, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister, to one note is to try to make this deficit in the coming year, because the adoption of the 2015 budget should be a continuation of this rebalancing and a continuation of all these measures that will lead to the consolidation of the Serbian budget. The 2014 deficit, based on this latest rebalance, will be 225 billion dinars, which is more than 43 billion than planned in the original 2014 budget. What I'd like to ask you now is that we pay special attention to three things. Together, we promised citizens in campaigns that we'd cut the number of agencies. Please, Mr. Prime Minister, the other day we voted on the Economic Committee for candidates for some kind of competition agency, or against the monopoly. Believe me, the president of that agency has a net salary of 350,000 dinars. Now that you cut that president of that agency's salary 10%, he won't even feel it, but a pensioner who has 35,000 dinars, when you cut it down, he feels it in a very different way. According to unofficial data, such agencies are over 140 in Serbia. That's what we have to do together and take responsibility for having to fix these things. On the other hand, the other thing that I specifically wanted to mention, that is what you well pointed out, and particularly Minister Vujovic in his opening statement, are public enterprises. If we don't solve it and we don't deal with the situation in public enterprises, we're free of this rebalance, free of budget for 2015 and everything else. Only one interesting piece of information, Mr. Prime Minister, is that a guarantee of 8.9 billion dinars was activated in 2014, which 174m euros only activated a guarantee for public enterprises, which is based on their loans they took and could not repay. On the other hand, there are pens that are paid for loans received by public enterprises, which have not yet been placed at all, because they have not had any projects, which is valid documentation to make these funds real. Minister Vujovic has already mentioned both "Serbia" and "Serbigas" and "Serbian Railways" and some other public enterprises, but it is actually a cancer of early Serbian finances. One more thing that's very important to mention, I'm talking about a reduction here, and everyone when we talk about this rebalancing, and the press and we MPs and citizens of Serbia, we're talking about two things, which is a reduction in wages and pensions, and in fact it's crucial in this rebalancing that we start with reforms, to start with one real thing, and that's what I just have to mention, the first time in one budget is the pay fund for public employees. This is the right way to start reforms, which is that 207.8 billion dinars were foreseen in the 2014 budget, and this rebalancing will be 200.7 and seven billion, respectively, will have a reduction in the salary fund for state officials. This should be just the beginning, just the beginning of serious capture with the reduction of civil servants at all levels, from government, public enterprises, to local self-government. Here, President, you must be sharp. These are things where we can no longer give in, because if this continues, we will be in a situation that in 2017, when we should be proud of the results of these now difficult and painful reforms, we will be in trouble. What I also want to point out as one piece of information that would, above all, ask Minister Vujovic for an explanation, it is a health fund. A moment ago, Mr. Minister was speaking to me in his opening statement, but one of the data from this budget simply burned his ears, I must say. It's an increase for the health fund in 2014 in this rebalance by 2,000%, I must say, it's an amazing piece of information. 668 million dinars were scheduled, and now 14 billion dinars are expected to rebalance. Are these debts for Velefarm, but I would like to receive from Minister Vujovic an exact information – why is this increase so much? What is good and should be commended in this rebalancing, and that is what citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission should know clearly, that is, that agricultural donations, so in this year the subsidies remain at the same level and that is good, because the Ministry of Agriculture also adopted the development strategy by 2024. Also, what is good is the announcement by Minister Vujovic that in 2015 he will apply in a different way, i.e. to grant subsidies in agriculture and himself a supporter of that, as well as my colleagues from the NS Parliament Club, that for large holdings above 20 or 30 hectares, commercial land, state in this way and all citizens from their donations do not need in this way to allocate subsidies. What's also important is the social increase. From 107 to 110 billion dinars are increased expenditures from the budget after this rebalance on social contributions, and that is something that is extremely important. My colleague from SVM has already mentioned something about social giving itself. In recent days, we have heard from Minister Vulin that soon there will be a new social protection law here in front of the MPs. What I asked the minister yesterday through the parliamentary question, I would like to repeat today in this debate, that before the final version of the law is passed, local self-government, cities and municipalities are included above all. We have to do as accurately as possible the social map, the social map, to try, if any household needs to. Why does it matter? Your announcement that any social assistance will have to be done is, I must say, in local self-government, it has come across a great echo and one fear among those who are adequately receiving social protection, and they are not working. It's a key thing and it's something we should mention and, on the other hand, that it clearly stands in the new law that all those who have been held accountable can no longer be the bearers of social assistance. Then there's a revolt, one misunderstanding, because you can't be in jail for a year or two, then you come out and you come to the state's manger, and you've done serious crimes. These are things that clearly have to stand in the law. It's good, I just pointed out, that the subsidies for agriculture in 2014 will remain at the same level. I would also like to point out in particular, for road infrastructure, for roads, for investment, too, they remain at the same level, because after all the troubles that were happening to us in 2014 it is very important that we find the possibility to restore travel infrastructure as soon as possible. That is why I would ask that later in the answers Minister Vujovic come out with as precise a number as we are, in fact, the state of Serbia and the citizens of this flood that was happening to us and all of these basic disasters in 2014, how much they cost us. Also important is the data, and this data is extremely important for all cities and municipalities in Serbia, that no transfer funds for local self-government will be changed. Why is this important? This is the first time that in one rebalancing and those who are going to criticise this rebalancing today, when they have previously brought it, we have had a situation to reduce the transfer funds in local self-government at the end of the year and then the investments that local self-governments have launched and that come to pay in November or December of the local self-government are denied for the money they had planned in their budget and it is therefore important that the transfer funds are not touched in this rebalancing. What I would point out as particularly important, I, Mr. Vujović, as any good student, when I looked at this budget rebalance and when I added and subtracted the figures, came up with a small technical breakdown and intervened with an amendment that I hope you would accept, which is precisely the means for local self-government, where 33.288.066,000 is foreseen. You have a slip that added 10 million dinars. These 10 million dinars eventually appear constantly in the collection, and they were taken in these 1.122 billion expenditures of the state budget. I suggested, when they are already there, and it is not said for nothing that the honest finder is always followed by the prize, that these funds be divided into municipalities that were most vulnerable to floods in 2014. The rest of the summation is true, I have to point out, but when we calculated this part, we came to a little bit of a misunderstanding. Mr. Prime Minister, of course, you will always have criticism, but what I want to tell you on my personal behalf and on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, we have been together in all difficult times and we will support this budget rebalance. We have faith that you will bring your energy to Serbia that at the end of 2017, it will be a much better life and that we will be able to say that there is a difficult period behind us. On behalf of the Parliament club and on my behalf, I wish you every happiness, and I hope you will justify this trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11417	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11418	I also want to thank Mr. Jugovic and Mr. Jovanovic for a few things to look back on, which I think are important. In fact, you have raised one question that was raised by the Fiscal Council, which is, of course, very important and which when it criticises us, criticises us in a serious way, unlike some of the others who criticise us. The fiscal council asked us for a much bigger reduction in wages and pensions and anything long, which we couldn't accept. But the Fiscal Council has given us one regret, and that's what has been under the line for decades now and in our methodology, and these are guarantees for public enterprises. We have come up with a key problem, which I did not talk about in my opening statement, which is the issue of overall reforms. I was on purpose, answering the questions of many journalists, always saying – it's not about reducing wages and pensions. First, most pensions are not reduced and one share of public sector wages is not reduced. It's not a question. The question is, what else can we do? It's one of the things only in a package of measures that are necessary for the package to bring results. What you're right about is much more important, it's a matter of public enterprise reform. But when you're talking about it, look, can I ask you if anyone said-- sorry, dear students, we know that you're always right and that no one will ever say anything, but is it possible to protest because there are five and not six exam deadlines? Did you see it in one of the media? Did you see that from one politician and one MP? Unfortunately for me, I was the only one who remembered a time when I was three, then four deadlines later, so I didn't mind being one of the best students. Now they're political demands. What are you ashamed to say? What are we ashamed to say? Don't, for God's sake, strike because we're asking you to issue fiscal accounts? If I'm paying fair as a guest in some pub my account, I don't want my boss looking at me the way I look at him because I'm asking him for a fiscal bill, because by taking a fiscal bill, we're buying those roads you were talking about, we're paying for schools, we're paying for hospitals. That's what our people need to know, that's what our pensioners need to know, that in every place we have to take a fiscal bill, to have for schools, hospitals, roads, so we can have social benefits. Without it, we don't have it. We have no one else to take from. He's not gonna fall off Mars. I said this because I'm coming to public enterprises. They're right counselors, they're right health workers, all those who have salaries between 40 and 60 grand and I understand them all. That's why we're going to watch pay grade and some other changes to change their position as soon as possible. Why are they right? They're right because some other people who use the monopoly position that the state has given them have the ability to earn 80% and 90% more money than they do without having more work or not being more professional than they are. It's something that's inherited. This time, all measures will apply to public enterprises. Believe me, we're most concerned about public enterprises. We had a meeting with the World Bank this morning. I'm not literally, but I've basically been by my head five times listening to stories about EPS, "Serbiagas" etc. Five times literally. You want me to tell you that I'm calling and asking – and what, Master, did you buy two Skoda Superbs out there in King's or Kragujevac's or don't know where? It says -- it's supposed to be a plan. What's the plan? So you can drive, you can drive, you can drive, you can drive, or you can drive, or you can drive from the congregation to the Metro, and you get out of the car when you have a car crash? Is that why you need it? There's a problem. Can we settle this right now? We can't solve this right now. We're in no condition. These people have the most beautiful stories in the world. It's not worth it. We're in no condition. Here's what I'd like to say to the fiscal council, to say we're hiding. Here's the guarantee we're paying in 2014 in dinar. We don't lie, we don't hide, because we didn't steal a penny. We're talking about the state of the financial statements we want together and we need to change. “Srbigas”, 48% of what I see, Nenade, is our “Serbiagas” on guarantees – 12,745.025.126 dinars. It's already been paid, and we'll have to pay another 4,750,000 before the end of the year. "Serbia's Roads", due to floods, because of everything, and otherwise, but this is added – 6,732,027,111 dinars. "Serbian Railways" – 3,949,875,000. If we didn't give money and people came out to strike, they'd all say, "Give it to them." Now you say - what are you giving them? Well, should we give them or not give them? Just make a deal and tell us whether to give or not? They're all smaller, there's an EU project, I don't know what it's for. They're the same roads, they're mostly the first-class flood routes of about five billion, which we've already paid for. We should still pay 7,400,000 for "The Iron"; we haven't paid that yet. Here, these are your biggest. Of course the fiscal council is right. You think I can say they were wrong? No, they're not. Our real deficit is greater than this, as every time our real deficit was much bigger than this and I can show you what it looks like on the table for every year in the previous 15 years. Here, look, our income is blue, orange is expenditure and you always see that our expenditures are slightly higher than our income, always, every year since 2001. But what's the problem is this number, that's what's been going on since 2011, 2012 by "Fiat", "Gelezzare", "Serbiagas", that's what's going on under our line. That's what goes under the line that we report to the deficit. It's a question for a public company. It's a question we have to solve. That's, of course, still less money and less money than anything else, but that's why in our plan with the IMF, here's to telling you what these measures are, to get to know you, because you're right, this is not a matter of budget rebalance, this is an announcement of essential reforms and changes. Never mind, rebalancing is a technical act that harmonizes reality with legal acts or vice versa, however you like. On salaries and pensions, count around 380m euros, on incentives for agriculture of 60m, an incentive for Railway 15m, "Serbigas" 60m savings must be made. Public sector governance and an increase in the private and public sector reduction of 80 million, a reduction in public procurement in goods and services of 20 million, and that is about 661m euros for 2015. That's what we're negotiating with the IMF, so you'll know how much we want to recover our public finances. For all of this, it's important next. In London, on Wednesday or Thursday, I'll see Mr. Wushar, and I believe we'll shake hands, which will mean the end of the smedereva pain. Believe me, I very much respect London School of Economics, it's one with Chetan House, one of the most important institutions and I'll be there, but as I say, it's much more important for me to do this for "The Iron" and for some other investors that I'm going to do the interviews there and I believe we're going to end it. But if we finish this, we finish the chemical complex, we finish FAP, if we finish Delfaj, that's for Novi Sad 3,500 to 5,000 new employees. In Krupanj, affected by the floods, the Turks arrive, in exchange for Krupanj about 300 jobs for women, Vladikin Han 500, and I believe we will have, unfortunately, some and I will remind you, told us – you will have 300,000 more unemployed after the Labour Act, and we have reduced that number by 40,000. [[Applause]] I am telling you that our goal before the end of the term of office, with heavy measures in the public sector, is certainly to lay off the part of party personnel or, not to say party, those who have the least productivity. And I believe that for 100,000 people, we will be able to reduce unemployment before the end of this government's term, which is very, very optimistic, and I'm not an optimistic man. I wanted to say one more thing, here you see, I've isolated the table here to see how much we've spent and where we've been growing costs per year, subsidies from agriculture, SIEPA, "Fiat" and remaining state aid, and there we've had terrible jumps in certain years, usually in 2009, 2011 and 2012. Everything after that is significantly less for us. Subsidies in restructured enterprises and other car construction programmes, trucks and buses are significantly reduced in 2013 and 2014 compared to, above all, 2010 and 2011. Then, in 2010, there were 23,394,005,272 dinars, 2011 27,190,870,396, and in 2014 8,807,000,000 and yet it was three times less than three times less, which is good. Where we grow giving, it's social giving. Social givings are growing year by year, and therefore I fully support the measures of Minister Vulin, those measures that exist everywhere in the world, and how we have to behave, incomparably more responsibly, just as they behave everywhere in the world, because in 2008 social contributions from 72,656,571,933 dinars jumped to 2014, at 110,000,000. Look at the people, 38,000,000 more for social contributions. If you ask me if it's a state of need, I'll tell you, believe it or not, it's a matter of benefits, various political influences and many other things and much more than what I was talking about. For the Transition Fund, we have much less money than in 2008, five times less. Our subsidies for agriculture grew by some, but not much, by 10%. That's all the givings and all the numbers that I think are important and that you know them, because I think it's important that the citizens hear them and that you know them. You are MPs, that you don't think that there are some people sitting there who are pouring from hollow to p, no, there are people sitting there watching how and how best to manage what we've earned, who are watching us fight the gray economy. The results have been remarkable in the last two months, and every day we have caught those with both cut tobacco and cigarette smuggling through buses, which go from Republika Srpska, Montenegro, Kosovo, Macedonia. That's what you see on our excise. We also have excise charges for oil, which we expected somewhere bigger than planned, but for the first time we have the excise duty for tobacco bigger than planned, which is surprising to us, to tell you the truth. I hope that trend and that the MUP and BIA will be able to continue their work properly, so that we can deal with it, because in that case, everything will be easier for us. If these big infrastructure projects come along, and everyone says they don't believe, and I like it the most when people don't believe in something, you'll see, you won't be able to get right to Topola, but you'll be able to turn around here and get to Topola much faster than before, less than an hour, I'd say, from the beginning of 2017. We are now calling for a tender for the road Preljina – Požega and I think we will have a highway to Požega, as I said, at the end of 2017, until Cačka concluded with 2016, which I think is a big and important thing. We'll finish Corridor 10, east leg, towards Bulgaria. Everything we haven't been able to finish in years, something has, of course, worked and I can't say it, because it doesn't fall overnight and Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic knows it well, there's no roads and railways going on in one day and in one year, because when I ask the Chinese for Belgrade -- Budapest, to finish in three years, they think I'm crazy, but then at the end when we get there, they say they could finish it, but our construction firms can't finish it, unfortunately. The start of "Belgrade on Water" and it was the dream of many of us Belgraders and it will raise GDP for all of Serbia, it will raise the construction industry and you will know that just because people are saying that nothing is going to happen, I want to inform you too, I think it is important for you, that you know that by now from 214 objects from phase 1A and phase 1B we have removed 67 objects, that we have already agreed with dozens of residents, some of them are evicted, and some of us are going to be making arrangements everywhere. We removed 15 kilometers of railroads, 15 kilometers of which, in different ways and for different purposes, were placed there and it seems to me that we have managed to secure money and that money that does not belong to our citizens, was not taken from our taxpayers, to implement the final measures of expropriation and eviction of the central railway station in Prokop. This will mean an additional boost, the most important incentive for the collapsing construction industry, because the most we lose in GDP, not counting coal and electricity, due to floods and elemental disasters, we lose in the construction industry. If that, with the growth of agriculture, with Clemens Teniz coming, the largest German meat producer coming here on December 17th, and I think I'm signing a contract with him on December 1st, then I think you can see that Serbia has a good perspective and that we have a very broad plan to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11419	The word was asked for by Minister Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11420	Thank you. A brief clarification. A regulation on labour activation of beneficiaries of financial social assistance has been adopted in order to give people the opportunity to work and to justify by their work what society gives them and what society helps them to do. This is not something Serbia invented, as a colleague said, is a practice in most European countries, it is a practice in almost all developed countries in the world. What's called social inclusion or social inclusion means you give people a chance to work for what they get from the state. Not to push them, certain social categories, into a corner, forget about them, give some money and say – you do not exist for us. No, I don't. In this way, people engage in everyday life, people prove by their work that it is worth society and state investing in them. I'll just remind you that social aid shouldn't be an occupation, it shouldn't be a permanent category. It's a state of emergency, it's a state of temporaryity, and it has to be changed as soon as possible, and education and work are the fastest way to change that. No one's ever explained to me why it's so bad that someone's being educated and receiving social aid? Or to work, and he's getting welfare. Just so we know, this applies exclusively to working people. All those receiving financial welfare are already classified. It's not a new thing. The files already say who's capable of work and who's out of work. Just so you know, the citizens of Serbia know, labourable recipients of financial welfare have 147,000. So, 147 thousand people receive social assistance, these are the donations spoken of by the Prime Minister and who are really big. I want to thank, primarily the Prime Minister, for fighting for the fact that social contributions are not reduced by any single dinar in this rebalancing. They'll probably come after us for that, but they're not cut by a single penny. And that's to be justified. Each month, a billion and 117 million dinars each month are paid to beneficiaries of financial welfare, of which 147 thousand can work. We've all faced floods, we've all been involved in various public works, there's no reason not to make it a practice. This is the way to do it. Of course, this is a way for people to acquire new knowledge and acquire new skills that they simply are not prone to. It's very hard to get people to learn, to go to new courses, to get new knowledge. This is one way. So this isn't necessarily anything and it applies exclusively to working people, and you who run local self-government know best how much work you need, how much labor you need, and how much money you don't have. What the state pays, plus the one-time social aid issued by local self-government, will be enough at least to make our cities much cleaner, much more orderly and that public works go much simpler. We want to help people, but thank society by working and learning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11421	Thank you. The next speaker is MP Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11422	Madam President of the Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the JS Parliament Club is concerned, there is no dilemma. We will support amendments to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, popularly named – budget rebalancing, as well as accompanying laws along with this budget rebalancing. We're going to give full support to these changes for the reason we think they're necessary and, let me say, extorted. Simply, at this point, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has come to the point that it has to make changes to the budget and propose these, for the broad masses and employees of the public sector, unpopular measures, but simply, when something has to be done, it has to be accepted as reality. In the view of the JS, and in this we support Prime Minister Vukic and other members of the government, this is a savings for the future. If we want to be a little bit pessimistic for a year and a half, two, and three, to be a little bit pessimistic, we have to live better, we have to tighten the belt and save up in this time period, by the end of 2014, 2015 and 2016, in order to create conditions for our children to have a better future, so that our children and our grandchildren can hope for a better, and so can we all with them. When I say this, I mean, and I wouldn't be dealing with numbers, because numbers are just a technical indicator of some work over the past period, and they're also going to be a technical indicator of what we're going to be doing in this present and future time. These austerity measures, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, must contribute to what we all seek, which is to invest in the future, which means that we invest in new factories, invest in new jobs, hire new workers, young, educated people, keep them in Serbia, give them the opportunity to live from their work, create a family, and simply again, by who knows which way, create conditions for us not to be empty, that Serbia does not shrink, that our children are born in Serbia, that there are more of us than there are now. And all we can do is invest in the future, invest in new investments, invest in new jobs. When I say so, I have the following in mind, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Finance. You have to find ways, not until the end of this year, but in the preparation of the 2015 budget, because this is, I would say, just one step to prepare the 2015 budget, to get as much resources as possible, within the limits of the 2015 budget, to invest in agriculture and those branches that rely on raw materials created in agriculture. Also, to invest a lot more resources in the development of so-called. "rual environments", to keep people, especially young people, to stay with their parents on their property, to allow them to reach technical production means, to produce in the environments and in the places where they were born, where their parents live, where their grandfather is, etc. If we do that, we'll solve one big problem, and that's a social problem. We've got a lot of people coming out of what's-his-name today. the rural environments in the urban environment, they didn't manage, they got a job or they ran out of work and today they represent in many ways persons in a state of social need, and they are mentally and physically capable of producing, that they can work, that they can create a future in their family, they just need to be allowed with little means to start working and to create. Minister Vulin spoke of socially endangered persons, i.e. persons who are in a state of so-called state. "social needs" and as fully as JS, we support your regulation that those mentally and physically capable of receiving social assistance, allow them to work and make money, not that at the welfare center just wait to receive this church, to say so, from this social assistance, which obviously cannot be lived for a month. There were also talks here about privatisations that were born back years. My smallness, as vice president of JS, will not use this pay phone to now criticise everything that was done in the earlier time period, but I would like someone to take, who is interested and who thinks I'm not speaking well, as then an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 2001-2002, stenographic notes, I also told JS President Mr Markovic, that it is the easiest thing to sell the best cow from the stable for good money, and not to invest that money to buy two other good cows, but to push it into consumption. And we've been doing these very years of privatizing that we've been selling the best businesses, from which many workers have gone, out of work, and these companies, that kind of money, have not invested in something else, in creating a new product, in opening new plants, in creating new jobs. But it's a distant past and I wouldn't talk about it. I don't think anyone who deals with the past has a chance for a better future. On behalf of my parliamentary group, I urge that we remember the past, but to draw a line and look to the future and create conditions for living in the future to be better. There were speeches here and taxes, etc. It's not my place to assess whether the state authorities did well or did not work well to collect taxes. Apparently, the results of these charges are such that they go before that it wasn't all done well. There have been good moves, not everything can be criticised, but obviously, in some segments of the tax authorities, it has denied responsibility, failed, I would say, and expertise, it may have failed something else, but here I think the time has come and that it is corrected and that the tax is charged properly, according to real economic grounds, according to the economic strength of the taxpayer, according to profits, according to profits, etc. But what I don't understand, and I'm asking a question on behalf of the Unique Serbia -- how is it possible that some employer is coming to work with Mercedes S 500 without his workers receiving a salary for six months or 12 months? I ask the public how can he not be ashamed in front of God and the people? On the other hand, there was talk of opportunities for these savings to be invested in new investments, and I talked about it in the previous presentation. Mr. President, I would like and appeal to you and to the Minister of Finance and to all the ministers in the government to give a little more freedom, but also to appeal to all local self-government to have a little more inventiveness in bringing investors into their midst, to offer the benefit of building new facilities there where young people from their midst will be employed. Don't mind me, I'm coming out of town, I have to say again, look up at a lot of things on Jagodina. We do so with the help of many governments, but also on our own to bring investors and hire workers from our environments and the surrounding cities, if there is no such profession in our midst. In the end, what is very important, because we also talked about salaries, Mr. President, and you mentioned and the finance minister pointed out that a new law, regulation, regulation, I don't know what to call it, o so-called. pay grade. As a Single Serbia, we will fully support the equation of income, that for the same or similar work, professional or less professional, in any case earnings are similar when it comes to the profits paid from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I would especially ask you to pay attention to many agencies and many so-called so-called agencies. independent regulatory bodies. It is not possible and it is not normal for the directors of some independent regulatory bodies to have 300,000 and 400,000 dinar salaries, while the president of the Republic, the speaker of the assembly, the president of the Serbian government, has two, two, and a half times the salary. I speak and know that they are independent, but they are independent in their work, in making their decisions, but they cannot and must not be independent of the economic and financial situation that is in the state of Serbia. Not some clerk in an agency or an independent regulatory body, who has a year, two or three internships, can receive 200,000 and 250,000 dinars, while the minister works in the government for 90,000 or 100,000 dinars. It's just not normal for me. Excuse me, please, but that's the way it is. They all receive salaries from state mangers and have to be compared to other jobs. I cannot allow professional associates in the Government of the Republic of Serbia or in the National Assembly to receive 60,000 and 70, while in some agencies some, who were hired yesterday, to check how much they receive, speak on the basis of data, have 150,000 and 200,000 salaries. For what work, I ask, and what do they contribute to the improvement of this country, better economic and faster development of the Republic of Serbia? I beg you on behalf of the Unique Serbia, Mr. President, with your associates and take care of it. When we put it all in the context of why we are here, and we have a desire to adopt this budget rebalance and follow the laws, and to create an ambience that in Serbia, in a year or two, three, as I said, better live, that our children have a better future, I, on behalf of the Single Serbia and the Single Serbia Parliament Club, can once again have full support for all the measures you are carrying out and that you will implement and I wish you successful work in that job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11423	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11424	A few important questions you have raised, Mr Petrovic. First, how is it possible that someone has a Mercedes, I'm not really an expert on these Mercedes guys? Someone's got some expensive Mercedes, and his workers haven't gotten paid in six months. That's why our inspections go above all and check that the workers have been reported, that their contributions have been paid, and to the extent that we've never done so before. More controls were carried out in the previous four months than in the previous nine years, believe it or not. Why? Because it's Friday or Saturday night enough to go out to Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and all major cities and see how our gray economy is booming, the revenues are not reported. There are persons with such expensive cars, with expensive designs, and their workers either do not receive or have no contributions or are not reported, and they must be grateful for what they get. So our job as a state is to make the best possible business environment for people, make money. Let him have the Mercedes table, but it's only one thing that matters is that he paid all the taxes, all the contributions and salaries to the workers. That's why we control them, and that's why we control them more and more and more. You can protest as much as you want, we'll continue with those controls. You can not love us as much as you want, with these controls we will continue, because that is how the state becomes normal and how the state becomes organized. Show me the country about the world, when we talk about it, and you see, in every sentence of yours, I resent someone or a larger social group, but I'm sure somewhere in the end people in Serbia will say, if anything, so let that fool finish what he has to do, and then someone else will come because everyone knows I'm right about what I'm saying. ♪ When you go anywhere, to Munich, Germany or when you go to Vienna, Austria, or when you go to Rome or Milan, Italy or Paris, can you get into the subway or anywhere and drive for free? Did that ever happen to you? While I was living in London, to avoid paying for three zones, I was walking into the first stop of the second zone and going out the last one and walking another mile just so I wouldn't have to pay for it, but what you're driving, you have to pay. In our country, it's normal for you not to pay. In our country it is normal to love politicians who will say – don't pay electricity bills, and in one Switzerland they would take you to a asylum and tie you to a radiator. That's the fundamental difference. You all know I'm telling the truth. These are the things we have to change. I didn't accidentally ask the pensioners of whom we should inherit the energy, which we should inherit love for the country, to look up to them, to look for a fiscal account everywhere, to want our country to make progress in order to get out of the crisis as soon as possible and to be able to pay for it. When you talk about educators, as right as they are, I've spoken to representatives of their unions and everyone's right. Everything they said, they're right, and that man who's mean to me and to others, and he said -- well, I have 45 grand, and some in the government have 200. I don't. It is true that some have, but what they have when you touch them, believe me, half the world jumps to tell you – you can't touch it. He's got some idiot agency, and I don't know what he's doing today. I tried three times to break it, and every time there's no man on the globe who hasn't sent me a memo saying it can't be lifted because of European rules, or I don't know why. Why was she? I'll tell you, you'll laugh on your own. You don't even know why we need it? If it's a microbiology and nuclear agency, I don't know what it is, something like that. You can't stop something like that if you're still that big. The whole world jumps on your back if you want to end it, and the salary is $200,000, 300,000, whatever you want. You're absolutely right about that. We'll be able to do something. As for the first part, that's why we're carrying out these controls. That's why we do it, and that's what we brag about, even though I know that some of the people are going to resent us every day. Do you know how many messages I got from my friends, they say -- now they've got us off the raft, they've closed that famous raft in Belgrade. I don't know if it's "r" or whatever it's called. Is that so? What did you do? Nothing, we just had double accounting, you know. Whether they're them or others, don't mind me. We only had double accounting, one where our boss sees how much we spent, and one thing we report to you in the state, so we don't pay you anything in the country, our boss takes everything. You want me to tell you about being protected by someone in the police and in some other organs, so they won't let us take the computers. They won't let us get the computers. So you know when, only when the tax collector says no problem, now we're going to open your walls to see where the drugs are, then they say, well, you better take the computers. Yeah, and that's how it's been going on for decades, but now it's happened, now we're taking their computers. Now we're checking. No, we sent dogs for drugs, because people weren't exactly always finding drugs, to tell you the truth, so we sent dogs to look for drugs. Dogs specially trained to find drugs. As far as I'm concerned, as you can see, I'm pleased that drugs have something less nuanced than they did last year and less than they did two and three years ago. Much less criminal acts committed than there have been in previous years, which is also not good, much less car accidents than we've had in previous years, but I'm not here to brag about things, I'm here to talk about bad things and how we should solve these problems. As far as salary is concerned, I think it's our job to get these paying classes settled as soon as possible, because that's what we're going to leave a part of the people in the interior so they don't all come for Belgrade. Because in Belgrade, the driver doing one job has two and three times the salary of the driver in Vranje, from the driver in Leskovac, from the driver in Prijepolje, Priboj and Novi Varosha, and these are things we can no longer allow. They're paid by the same state. Why would we do that? So we send a message to every driver in Vranj, Leskovac, in all these places - get out of your place, get out of your city and come to Belgrade, and we don't need it, we don't need it for anything. These are the things we're going to have to change and that's all we've had for 20, 25 years, not to talk in one, two, three authorities, but about everything we haven't been able to change. There will be a lot of things behind us that will have to change, but these basic things we have to set up, I'd say on the right basis. Our job is to create the best business environment for all private people and our goal is to try to make a part of the public sector people who are not satisfied with their incomes, who can work in the private sector, go to the private sector, so much better for us. We're being supported by the private sector. That's what we want to encourage, that's exactly what we want to do. I'll give you the exact details so you can see. Everything went wrong for us when about 2008, 200,000 private sector people were admitted into the public sector. In fact, it's not just 200,000 people who have lost their jobs, it's 400,000 more people we have to support, because a smaller private sector with 200,000 has to support a larger public sector than 200,000. What we have to do is tell our people everywhere in Serbia, in every place, that it's not the most important goal and that it's not best to have a job in the country. Because we don't get a job and we don't have a job in the state, we get a job. We need a job and that people can earn more in the private sector, go to the private sector, not just to fight for a safe job, but to fight for a job. To do more, to create more. We struggle by a billion to increase our GDP, to torture ourselves. We bring parties and pay them dearly to come here because we're not capable. You want me to tell you how much money we've paid for the "Fiat"? We've given hundreds of millions of euros, so don't let me say all of it. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: A for “Etihad”? If you can't throw away and be polite, even though I know you're polite... What to do, the education comes out of the house, and you can't even teach him at school. So these are the things we, Mr. Petrovic, have to work together. As you were successful in bringing investments, I congratulate Mr Markovic and you on that. I only ask you this winter as Belgrade will pay all the bills, that all other cities in Serbia and Nis and Novi Sad, especially Novi Sad, who did not do so properly in all previous years, take to pay their bills, pay their bills for the heat and everything else. They say yesterday – we were surprised by the first snow. You know how surprised we are? There was a storm storm, 46,000 people had no electricity. It's been fixed in ten hours. As a result of the stormy storm, much greater consequences in Austria, Switzerland, Germany. Our hardworking EPS and ESM workers fixed it within ten hours. All 8,000 people had no electricity last night. All 8,000 people besides such a storm, and that happens everywhere in the world. We only know we speak negatively. When this has changed and a better result has been made and no one else has electricity left in Serbia, it's not news anywhere. Did you hear that somewhere this morning? Nowhere. You've heard big problems everywhere, but there's no news this morning that your problems have been solved and that everything has been restored to its previous condition. When the floods in Slovenia stopped, and when the floods in Serbia, I'm sorry that were a hundred times up, on a thousand-year-old level, something like that never happened. So these are the things we have to change about ourselves. Why am I speaking even though I'm an Orthodox believer, why am I often talking about Martin Luther as a historical figure? You know, he chose the hard way and had fewer followers than those who wanted to stay at the main church, as the Catholic Church was then called. Why? Because he spoke less of what people liked to hear, because he told them that with his work and self-inflicted and self-sacrifice you could advance, not sitting, waiting and slothing. I think that's what we have to change about ourselves. I change it with me and learn it every day. I've tried not to embarrass you by not knowing foreign languages, but I'll be happy to talk to you next year on two other sides of the language or our guests or at some international gathering, and I always have time, at least from eleven o'clock to one in the afternoon to learn it and to do it because the working day doesn't stop. That's what I'm asking everyone else in Serbia so we can get out of the crisis. Let's just do more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11425	The word has a folk MP, Dr Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11426	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, respected ministers with associates, as well as my predecessors, I will say at the very beginning, the SDPS parliamentary group will give full support to the budget rebalancing. They'll give for a number of reasons, I'll list some of them. First, he's being extorted, rebalanced is something that's inevitable. The truth is that rebalancing, as Minister Vujovic said, has no major effect. The effect will be given in one month, has limited range, but it is the first step in fiscal consolidation. This fiscal consolidation behind which we stand means that Serbia cannot spend more than it earns in the future. We cannot expect that in Serbia, which has a GDP slightly larger than 33 billion euros, 7.5 million Serbs create it, and 4.5 million Croatian citizens create more than 50 billion GDP. We can't have both education and health care at the level if we produce so little, and that's why I absolutely agree with what Prime Minister Vukic said took a lot of effort, a lot of work, so that we can just raise GDP by one billion. It doesn't come from the sky, it doesn't fall from the sky, so we need to work very hard, and that's why our whole support will be exactly in this direction of fiscal consolidation that we expect, which we already have in this 2014 which we expect in 2015, and until 2017. Why am I talking about this? Our deficit is now high. I'm not bidding with him. He's beyond all the boundaries we have. However, if we want normal Serbia, that deficit must be between 2%, 2.5% of the BPD, and that means that for pensions we will raise 10% of GDP, not like now 13.5%. This means that for public sector wages, we will single out 8% of BDB, not like now above 10% with a further tendency to increase, increase, because public sector employment is constantly being carried out. It also means that the subsidies with now 3% of GDP will be reduced to a European level, which is about 1.5%. We have a GDP drop this year. I listened to Minister Vujovic last night, he said 2% that he expected it, and yet it is not a final solution, and today it seems to me, 1.2%, which I think is a little more realistic than what is expected. I'm also saying this because we're going to the extent that everyone here has spoken of, which is why we're not happy first. Reduced wages and pensions, it's not something any ruling structure can say that makes us happy. I can use further epithets -- yes, they're painful measures, they're painful measures, but to know that 25,000, however little it seems, and how hard it is to live with 25,000 dinars, we don't touch them anyway. If it wasn't for those 25,000 dinars, you'd know how big that sum is and how much it means to life. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia has always insisted that the burden of the crisis, and the crisis in Serbia is not small, much is inherited from the next period. I know how it went in 2000, we know how privatization went, we know how artificially a vision of a high standard was created without the work behind it. So the price we pay now is very high. Maybe we should have paid for it in 2008. Then this price would be lower, maybe we should have done it two years ago, three years ago, maybe it would have been much better and much easier. If we delay the reforms will be much harder, we will have to give much more, much more to deprive ourselves of everything we have, and therefore we insist that all of this be implemented by the end and it will indeed be the SDP that supports the reform processes. I also have to point out, all the speakers who spoke before me, and how they stood behind reform procedures, that's what I have to point out. That's why I'm not going to repeat some of the things my colleagues have been saying, because I absolutely agree with them. This means that within the position we have unique views, attitudes that mean reform, a new Serbia, Serbia that in 2017, and perhaps later, but at least for now in 2017, I don't like making easy promises, looking better, better. We want Serbia to be a normal country, and just that, nothing more than where it will live and be able to live from work, where pensioners will be able to live on their pensions, and then just move on. Now, that's why we justify all this happening and it's like a set of measures. Fiscal consolidation does not mean just a reduction in wages and pensions must be made clear in public. Fiscal consolidation means a lot more. Let's see where these subsidies are going, where they're going, I absolutely agree with my colleague and Petrovic and Jovanovic, who said that subsidies also need agriculture, but why should we subsidize someone who has more than 20 hectares? Why don't we help those who have up to 20 acres? Why don't we have cooperatives, an organized system to buy their products and keep those people living in rural areas alive. I was recently in a village, the farmer came and said – please tell me that the country is given to those people who live in the country, young people who want to live there, who want to work, not those who are the richest, who live in the village, and then whatever measures we bring, they're turning something around, they've got good rent-ins, and people have to go to big cities, because there's still something that's going on, something that can live. We've talked a lot and today there's a lot of talk about public enterprises. That's another part we need to take a good look, see how it goes, what's going on here. In fact, public companies have their own rules. And I'm afraid, and I'm warning you right now, that last night on the Finance Committee we talked about, that these measures in public enterprises aren't being abused, that we're not going to have a situation like we did in the past, that we're getting paid by night, that the coefficients rise, that some bonuses come up, and we end up in a situation where we play out a good idea that we're all sacrificing that we could all reduce our budget deficit. Moreover, fiscal consolidation requires something else. It requires an increase in taxes, a tax on property. Go anywhere outside Belgrade, along Frusko Gora, you will see huge houses, you will see expensive cars in front of those houses. I ask the question – how taxed they are, how did they come to these treasures, and why not – why not also question the origins of the property of some people, because these are still the possibility of this country being a country of social justice? When we insisted that we have access to the wealthier suffer the greatest consequences of all these reforms, the SDPS always insisted that those who have less must give less. We have significant social property, state property. We have a little social, but we have significant state property. Let's see how this property is managed, what is the income of that property and how and how it is improved, to improve that larger funds are coming into the state budget, so that we can cover all of this that's happening to us. As SDPS, it's hard to say that we have extra employees in the public sector. That means layoffs. We suggest you take a good look at where we have these surpluses. You'll see that we have surpluses in our offices, we've got a place where we can't work. Where the perpetrators are needed, we don't have enough employees. So let's see how we can, by a different orientation, lead to a situation where those who work stay, and those who are too high to go along with some severances and open up a private business and something else that's going on. It is clear to us here, fiscal consolidation means a savings of 2.5 billion euros. It's a lot of money. That should be done in the next three years, and I think we have a lot of abilities and opportunities for that. What some colleagues have already said, which is that this budget rebalance and budget is transparent, clearly stands where it goes, and even those revenues below the line, which we are now talking about here openly. I am aware of the fact that this can't go into the budget right now, to show a much bigger deficit, but I hope, and we expect it as SDPS that at the end of this period we have a clear, completely open budget, a budget that will be in line with all European countries, that it will no longer be below and above the line, that it will be quite clear what and how this country pays, that order is known and that it knows what needs to be. We'll probably do it in this period that we have ahead of us. And he's looking forward to this, and why don't you point that out, there are indicators that some things are going better. I'm talking about excises, tobacco excises, oil, so indicators that say we have an increase in that part. Also, why don't we say, we have a reduction in the number of unemployed from 20.3 and that's what's going on. They're indicators, maybe they're not the numbers we'd expect, but it's important that we turn our trend towards a better, to a bigger, to a better. I would like to stress immediately that the SDPS parliamentary group will participate in all the reform procedures that will take place, in the amendments to the law, but we are aware of the facts – there is no change until we all change, better, better, that we work more and that the work has only measured values. In that sense, we will also vote for this budget rebalance, as well as when we get the 2015 budget, which we believe has to be done in a better, better quality way in terms of making it more realistic and not doing the rebalancing right at the very beginning of the financial year, but to make it more realistic, which is what we promised citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11427	The word has a folk MP Milan Krkobibić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11428	Madam President of the Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who rightly follow this transfer today, there is nothing very interesting about considering the budget, any businesses, any local communities, any state in that sense. That is to meet certain technical, legally prescribed standards, I would say, certain domestic and foreign standards that bind us. This rebalancing that's ahead of us today is something that's completely natural, that we're verifying the current state and seeing where we are. I'm fully convinced that he has this other one, and it's spreading meaning. He's foreplay for a very serious game in the coming years. We're also getting ready for this game, under the pretext of course, we must all be more than ready. In his presentation, the prime minister referred to one thing that is very interesting to me, a question of motives for taking such measures. Speaking of these motives, they're expanding it, and the question is, do we need political support from the majority party for a concept like this? It's necessary, but it's not enough. Do we need support for our position, as we've heard, in this House? Of course, it's necessary, but she's not enough either. Do we need opposition support? Of course we do, but she's not enough either. For a step like this, we need a consensus of general society. First of all, I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he has a feeling, subjective that at this point in society there is such a consensus to go to these steps that are ahead of us. This rebalancing is an introduction, an introduction to essential reform measures, but respected gentlemen, not declarative. We all say mostly reforms, reform measures, and then we stop there, do nothing concrete, especially those concerned. Now, when we go in a row, one, one, two, three, four, the book falls, maybe to one or two letters, to the initiators of such key reform procedures. That's the problem. That's why we need a wider, I'd say, general consensus for the realization of such measures. What's remarkable about this rebalancing is the beginning of those savings. Of course, the basic principle of economics is the principle of economics, and we're going to cut the cost to the extent that we can do it, and we're going to do it. We'll do it next year, if I followed correctly, some 661m euros are scheduled to save next year. All right, we're saying, we're assuming we can't move on, but that's the point. The question arises – budget, business plan, financial plans always have two sides, income and expenditure. We in Serbia always have a custom, at least so far, which is why our deficit has become a habit, that we are only dealing with the dissipating side. The future side requires work, energy, to roll up sleeves, demands responsibility. That responsibility has to be written in big letters. Without a liability, all of this will be just a dead letter on paper. Let's devote ourselves next year to that revenue side, see where and how we can earn it, how we can fill out the budget of the Republic of Serbia. First, it is clear that we have passed the law here, the privatisation process should be completed in the right way, facing enterprises in restructuring, but not only to face it, but indeed to resolve it, facing companies owned by the state of Serbia, with public enterprises. There is a lot of misunderstanding when it comes to public enterprises, there is, of course, because the essence of public enterprises is something that is specific. You have to be in that mile to figure that out. Of course, a public enterprise has to fulfill the mission it was founded for. Sometimes that mission isn't profitable, but it's socially useful. But where that public enterprise can and should operate marketly, then it must have a first and a basic task, which is profitability. This company has to be profitable, under one, under two, it has to grow and develop, it has to invest and it has to run an adequate policy of the social corporate responsibility of these companies. We will agree that when we look at public enterprises in Serbia, these criteria meet a very small number of these companies. What is devastating and what should be paid particular attention, there are public enterprises that operate on the market, and they are monopolies. Imagine a monopoliest, and it has losses, it is primarily a socially irresponsible enterprise and it is a system that has no competition, and it collapses. Where does this collapse of that system come from? Of course, it doesn't come from outside, there's no other system for that guy. This collapse is some kind of self-destruction of these systems and that's what the prime minister was talking about, that he has a headache when he talks about EPS, about the following companies. That's the key question we have to face. The first step that we support and the right step in that direction was – let's say - how much will the public enterprise be paid in the Republic of Serbia's budget next year. I repeat it again today, I've never heard it here before, and we're very often in this kind of discussion in principle, but we're avoiding concreteizing things. If I remember correctly, it's about 150m euros. Let's think about if it can be 300 million, let's think about it. I'm not saying, you should try, you should invest energy. Let's hire all smart, smart people from economic institutes, analysts, experts, let's tell us how to do it. It is difficult, but it is something concrete and will be of great benefit to the Republic of Serbia. I am convinced internally that the income generated by public enterprises in such a way can be equal to that which we will achieve by savings on pension and salary cuts. As far as I know, that's about 380 million. Let's make that 380 million. Why should our Serbian casino be the only one in the world to record losses? I mean, "Lutria Serbia," I banalize things. The casino always gets, again, a banal thing, but noticeable. Not to order, so it's important to focus on specific things. I think it's something that's ahead of us. I would expect the Ministry of Economy and the finance minister to come up with concrete obligations, i.e. to seriously consider this process of self-destruction in the company, and it is happening, I will tell you now and where, in the triangle of management, administration and union. This is the Bermuda Triangle. There are also political personnel and political influences and everyone else. Let's break that triangle, bring in people who will take responsibility for what they're doing, and that taking responsibility will be defined by their business results. At the same time, I would also refer to the relatively two short texts that treat pensions, salaries and reductions. Let's try to look at it in a slightly more original way. Let's not talk about the reduction, let's say that we see as a contribution to the solidarity of a part of the pensioner and public sector employees to contribute in a relatively limited time period so that these measures that I was just talking about can be relaxedly implemented. Why am I saying that? Dear People's MPs, I often go to the field in Serbia, tomorrow I will be in Valjevo, gatherings of 400, 500, 600 people. It's important to me. It's important for me to hear these people react. That's what they talk about in local information. These are serious and responsible people who have contributed to the development of this country. For example, they contributed when there was an earthquake in Montenegro, so we allocated a large number of years. They contributed to the Belgrade city's water supply. There's no need to pick it up. If we tell them -- this is your contribution to getting us into business activity in a limited period of time, then they'll figure it out. But I'm afraid some or certain groups are sending bad signals. They're not people we can deceive just like that. Yeah, we'll take it from you, we'll cut it down, and we won't do anything here. They're monitoring it, and they'll accept all of this on condition that clear, energetic, reform measures are taken. I said in this economic sphere, I can't even get past the sphere of public administration. Gentlemen, customs. We're now saying we've speeded up the excise charge. Why are we speeding her up? Why don't we already have her? Let's see what the IRS does to us, what customs are doing to us. Looks to me like 40 grand is down the number of people waiting for a job. Work inspects do their job. Well, he's got to do it better. One particular question -- does this labour inspection intend to control foreign companies as well? Shall we stand in the way of the foreign company paying part of the salary to workers in the surrounding countries and thus directly undermine the budget of the Republic of Serbia? Of course these three segments are very important and deserve essential, profound reform. I'm afraid that's not where we're headed yet. We can commend them, but the fundamental shift hasn't been made yet. In this way, if we turn to the revenue side of the budget next year or in the coming years, with the aim of bringing this budget deficit into frameworks that can be acceptable to us, we can say that these measures that are more than difficult, it is clear that they are difficult, someone who has 30 or 40 thousand if we cut a percentage, can't easily get over it and say that it's not a heavy measure, it's his personal denial, but then that denial, then those measures have a lot of justification and then we can expect support from these people. At the same time, there is also a brief touch on the workload of people receiving social assistance. Minister Vulin spoke of it and pointed out that it was something that would contribute, let's say, to local environments, Mr Markovic-Palma, to do some work. I've had some conversations with people from the local self-government of London. That's not the point, we're not doing any important work. We do some big jobs that way and we can't. But what can we do? What about the top of those measures? It must be our purpose, Mr. Minister. It is that a working man, who spends a year waiting for work, if he doesn't feel obliged to do so in the morning, is in London, at some point showing up at that place, spending a certain period of time, he loses the bond with reality, and after a year these people claim that he is absolutely incapable of being involved in any corporation's work. So the measurements are more psychological. We protect the dignity of these people, because social aid is charity. People don't need charity. He needs to know that he's responsible, that he has an obligation to appear and that for that responsibility he gets that compensation. If we do something useful in those local environments, it'll be good. But let me tell you right now, you're gonna have a lot of resistance. These local environments aren't quite ready to rush right now and now all these people who are social welfare recipients are working hard to get a job. You'll hear a bunch of excuses, but that's all in this manner of ours. In the end, we'll talk more extensively when we see the draft budget for next year. In this draft budget for next year, I would like, if that is possible, and now it is here that the Prime Minister, to predict the allocation of funds, to revive the concept of social entrepreneurship. Why am I talking about it? There are two sectors of business, public and real. There's a so-called. the third sector - the social entrepreneurship sector. We deal with numbers, today the rebalancing, Slovenians achieve close to 8% of GDP from that third sector, the social entrepreneurship sector. It's something that's not made up, it's something that exists in Western Europe and something that's market-based. I would ask that, in the planned budget for next year, we have that item, at least symbolic, initial, so that we can start with that project. The project will live in a simple way if we give it real economic incentives, which is interventions in the field of tax and contribution, in a reduction or, for example, interventions in VAT rates, positive discrimination and participation in public procurement and, I would say, in creating a positive climate in the purchase of products and services of social entrepreneurship. Finally, the PUPS parliamentary group, I am saying this because of Serbia's public, is not in the Serbian government. We don't have ministers and we don't keep ministerial posts. When they tell me -- you can get out of the government, I say -- in order to get out of somewhere, I have to get in first. This is not support for the government, not support for the Serbian Progressive Party, this is support for one concept, the concept of Alexander Vukic, whom we consider to be a fair concept, which has been extorted and very correct in the long term. That's why we're gonna support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11429	The word is Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11430	I want to thank Mr. Mijatovic and Krkobic. They've made some arguments that I haven't made, which is about how much we create, and how much others create, and how much we want to live incomparably better by spending what we haven't earned. You're absolutely right about public enterprises and how much of them we can charge. Since I don't see Mr. Krkobic, I'm going to get up this time so I can turn around. So, first of all, as far as public enterprises are concerned, we agreed to increase the state's revenues from public enterprises by 150m euros compared to those we had. These revenues must be much higher, but 150m euros will be increased revenues. We have several serious problems, it's a "Srbigas" well justified, part unwarranted, most of it justified because the heat in Serbia doesn't pay the bills, and then a scandal comes to you, and you say – you don't have heating in Bora, you don't have heating in the second, third, fifth or 10 cities. Belgrade is the most convincing one, and if nothing, the new administration of Belgrade has done two things very well, and that is that there is no longer any debt of the city, absolutely no more that things are set on real ground and that their obligations towards the Republic and public enterprises are fully met and that they have managed to raise their collection in the GSP, it is also a major success and reduction of the city deficit very significantly. I just ask everyone else to understand how important it is, because we can't blame "Srbigas" the next day if all the cities and entire regions don't pay him bills at all. So our problem is that they've had some public enterprises for years, decades and hidden accounts, accounts that we've never seen in our balance sheets, accounts that you've never seen in the budget, accounts that we've never shown to the MPs, not this year, but never through the history of the Serbian parliament. And that's what the IMF resents us, the IMF resents us for keeping a lot of things below the line, so I read you all this data, read all this data very precise, that we don't want to hide from the public, and we're going to have to change that methodology, because all the guarantees of the state apply to us as a public debt and all of that accounts to the IMF, but we're not counting on our deficit. I think it's our fault in the account for many years, decades, than it is the IMF's fault. We, as you know, will take from the "Electro Network of Serbia" 60m euros, which is the biggest money, then from the "Telecom" of the Republic of Serbia, of course from "Post", of course from "Jugoimport", SDPR 20m, and where we have problems, these are "Electroprivreda Serbia" and "Srbiagas", "Srbijas", "Serbisum" and here we have serious problems, and there we need all kinds of changes in relation to these companies, in order to make more significant profits and more significant profits, more significant profits in order to keep it in the state register. Also, I believe that we will reduce our allocations for our enterprises in restructuring, because we are going to solve this problem. There's one part of a company that nobody's interested in and that's going to have to go into liquidation for 10, 15 years, there's no product there, no one's doing any work, but there are companies that haven't worked for 10 years, and for which there are interested people, companies to take over. We work hard and hard with them and work hard and try to find the best solution. That's why we're going with our separations and that's for the state to help. What's our problem now? I know you do, but it's important for me that citizens know when you don't have the support and there's no clear consensus, and I want people to know what it is. So if we were to sell the hall in Priboj, we could take a million or a half million euros on that hall, but that's just something that's property value and then you don't have any more employees. If we say, take the hall for free, we will give you another five, six, seven, 10 million euros, you have to save 600 workers, restore production, pay taxes, and you have to keep that number of employees for so long and increase the number of employees in the next period by another 300 people, then it will cost us. But for that, we need a consensus, and we need people to understand, first of all, that we're not thieves, that they're not coming from themselves, that they know we're not taking anything for ourselves, but that we're doing it for these workers, that they know we're doing it for the restoration of production. And because of that, and because of many other things, we need a consensus and we need it in the right way. The consensus is impossible to achieve in a society where you have a dramatic opposition to the interests of those who would like to keep everything as before, those who support the protests, and before, they were against those who held such protests. Those who support those protests that are pointless. It is not a problem in the protests that are meaningful, in the protests where you see some serious request and where you see the solution, but the problem is if someone's policy, like Dekart's, is doubtful, therefore exists. It is their policy – I hate it, so it exists. You'll see later on how right I am, because I'll be forced to deny many things, many lies and lies that have been told in different places in the past days, and so I'll have the courage to wait for those very loud and very wise to tell their lies, so that it all gets its epilogue. You know, because I don't have time to deal with their daily slanders, but once every two or three months I get to answer it face to face, and as you know, I'm not a bit timid and unlike them, my cheek is clean and thank you for that, I'm proud of it. But without that consensus in society, we're gonna have to push it out. [[Applause]] I spoke to Gerhard Schroeder recently, for the third time, not here in Serbia, whether in Switzerland or in Germany, I think it was Switzerland and he told me one thing before we entered into these reforms and before I invited you, Mr. Krkboth, I would like to present to you our plan even before you made your remarks before we agreed on everything, and I spoke to him and I told him what my intention was. I said what I think and what it is that we have to do, regardless of the fact that no one in Serbia will understand it. Every day you will read in every newspaper, and why have you not done this, and you have not done what you have not done, and you have not taken down more of this, and you have not taken down less of it? And what do you take off someone who has 80,000 dinar pensions, he's been paying more and you don't take off that of 25,000 dinars? We have managed, above all, the principle of fairness, the principle of the ability for people to survive and that people can survive, because I don't think this situation should last in our society for years, because when we get to those 50 billion that Mr. Mijatovic talked about, and not up to 50, but 40 billion, and now we're at 34 billion, when we get there, we won't have a problem with dramatically higher pensions, or with dramatically higher salaries. It's a matter of our work, of our engagement, of our industriousness. We'll talk later, I'm sure, and about bankruptcy rights and you'll see how seriously those who talked about it didn't prepare. They did not even study the judgments, nor the decisions of Strasbourg, nor did they deal with anything seriously. The only thing they did was show hate and hate without any cover, and that's probably the most beautiful thing they can hear. That's why I understand them, because they're happy when someone shows up who's going to yell "Wolf, faggot" or something, because it's their cry, their justice, their knowledge and their education. I have to tell you that I have nothing against it, the only thing I know, is that I can't be yelled at by what other people were yelling at when they were called thieves or something, you know. I can be this and that, I can be whatever you want, but I've never had anyone yell at me, and I'm sure no one will ever yell at me that I'm a thief, and that's the difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11431	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11432	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr Ministers, fellow MPs, this latest appearance by the Prime Minister was probably an introduction to the presentation of opposition MPs who, after three hours of debate, will finally come to the opportunity to say their views on the proposed laws we are discussing today. From us, Prime Minister, you won't hear the words of hate, you won't hear the insults, you won't hear the flat-rate accusations. We will talk today in this debate about what is in the bill of law before us. We'll talk, we'll ask questions - who's responsible for some things that haven't been done? We will ask the question – what is the future of Serbian citizens with the measures proposed by this incompetent government? The first item of the agenda is budget rebalancing. The budget rebalancing at the end of the year is practically depicting the state of the year. There's not much space in it, there's not much time to see some changes to make some reforms. If you look at the situation, it's catastrophic. We've been listening here about the big excise charge. In budget rebalancing, the expected revenue of excises compared to the planned budget is 16.4 billion dinars. The expected excise duties on tobacco products are decreasing by 19.8 billion dinars. I know that now the answer will be yes, but in the last month things have changed. I ask what was done eight, nine months before that? Who were the ministers, who was prime minister, who was director of the tax administration, who were the people responsible for what we have today? I, as a citizen of the country, want to believe that things are going to change in the future, but I'm talking about what it says today in budget rebalancing, and they're writing these numbers. It says tax revenues will be lower by 43 billion dinars all together, that the largest drop is nominally 32 billion in VAT collection. If you look at how VAT is charged, about 100 million VAT is charged from 109, it seems to me, millions by August are charged VAT on domestic goods, and 200 and something on the side, on import goods. It speaks of the structure of economy and sales and the state of our country's economy. On the upcoming side, for example, three billion dinars have disappeared from the National Bank of Serbia. We'd like to get an answer to where that money is? Why did they disappear in the rebalancing? Of course, there is something to be said about the parting side. On the divisive side, almost the largest nominal change remained current expenditures almost doubled. So 99.3 is a change compared to the planned budget. From 13 billion to 600 million to 27 and some billions. It's very difficult for this short time, the 40 hours we've had, to study in these 300 and some sides where that money ended and how it was spent. A colleague asked the question legitimately for this biggest increase of 2000%, these are grants to the Health Insurance Fund and we haven't heard the answer directly to the microphone, and I think the answer should be that it's due to the change in the rate that's being changed during the summer. That's when we heard there was a Republican fund in the surplus and they didn't need the money. If they don't need money, why do we now give them 14 billion dinars from the budget? If we apply a purely healthy logic, 14 billion now we have to give, then by 14 billion, how much is 2% reduced for health care and increased for pensions, now we're going to cut donations to the Pension Insurance Fund, there's no such thing. There's a five billion reduction, not 14. So nine billion is missing. I think we can also count this five-billion reduction if this pension reduction bill is passed, how much less will it take for the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund to reduce pensions by adopting this law in the next two months. So it's not nine more than a billion. It's hard to read everything, but let's just say, you can read, because in this document, whoever followed it, there are from all institutions budgets, changes, and then it's interesting that the Health Insurance Fund is in its plan for 2014, it didn't have these 688 million transfers from the state budget, but two billion and 580 million. Then there's an increase of not 2,000%, but 544%. These numbers just need to show that this country has been run irresponsiblely over the past 10 months. Here's a statement from the budget that confirms my claim. It says – there is a formal reduction in the number of employees as well as real average earnings. It's on page 225, so there's nothing I can say that's not true. January – August 2014, realistically reduced average earnings to 0.5 from 3.7 in the same period last year. At the same time, we look at the form of property, the average net profit in the private sector is actually reduced by 1%, while in the public sector it is actually increased by 0.3%. The average net earnings in this period increased 7.6 nominally, and 5.4 in real terms in public enterprises. Furthermore, on the next side, my favorite table, I will show it the same, and each of you can look at the number of formal employment in Serbia. Since you have repeatedly boasted here by reducing unemployment, it would be logical to have increased the number of unemployed. But that's not true. According to here, according to data from the monthly RZS reports, the average number of officially employed January-August 2014 was reduced by 1.7%, while according to NZZ data, the average number of registered unemployed persons actively seeking employment was reduced by 0.1%. So every month in this year, the number of formal employees decreased, and that was also in August of the month compared to June, the last month in this table. That information, gentlemen, is the only one relevant from the point of view of the budget. The polls you're doing and what unemployment you're measuring today from 20.3 are not seen in the budget. There is no revenue in the budget from this employment, or unemployment, that is to say, it is clear that employment is being led somewhere black and that the state has no income from it and that some of the unemployed are growing in black this year rather than reducing. Today, to move on to that future, you come with a bill to cut wages and pensions in the next three years and two months, it's temporary, three years and two months, and then listen to the story – we'll be better in two years, so maybe we'll get better in a year and a half. If we're gonna get better so soon, why three years and two months? Why not two years, how much better we'll be? Let's do this in two years. We can discuss that at this point, the state is hardly able to have better measures to reduce the gap in the budget, except for cuts in wages and pensions. We can agree on that, but what are we going to do about increasing the revenue side, increasing the taxes? Where's the conversation today? It's not there. Where are the new investments? There's no investment. Two hundred and sixty million in 2012. Seven hundred seventy million euros in 2013. What's the level of foreign investment this year, can we hear that? There's no record of that. I was trying to find him. Five hundred and sixty million is something I seem to find, it's projected. Let's hope so. Two billion was in 2011. Come to half of it and criticize those who led this country in an earlier period. You were talking here about the way, let's say, how do you want to solve the FAP issue? We support you in that, and we know it's probably the only possible way right now. But what did you say when foreign investments were made in the previous period, when you were opposition? Remember what you said then about this way of bringing foreign investors and raising the economy. Remember your words. You said, Honorable Prime Minister, in one part of your presentation, you didn't need votes. You probably don't need them today. There's no choice in sight. But you said something different on March 10th of this year, six days before the elections: "Vucic: "I guarantee you will not cut pensions." The SNS president said today that he guarantees that acquired rights will not be reduced, regardless of what reforms the new government will take. “ Here, I can from all the newspapers that day, it was the central news, so the elections were won, with a statement – pensions will not be reduced. Then what is this today? If it hadn't been an incident, here's an example since 5 December 2013, in the Voždovac election campaign: "Vučić promises – you'll live better at the end of 2014. That's it now. It's this moment. Do citizens live better? Will they be better off after these measures? Is this better than it was a year ago? It's not better. And we have hope that when all this is done, that we will be better in two years, as the Prime Minister says, and in three years and two months, as the law says we should adopt. We have given you the amendment, respecting your words, that this law does not last three years and two months, its application, but that it lasts two years. Please, that's your word. In the law on wage cuts, the reason is that it is expected – the expected effect is 60 billion dinars in three years. There's no such thing as pension-reduction laws. There is no point 7, which is mandatory when every law is proposed in the procedure and the question is whether the law is even in accordance with the procedure, can we adopt it today. There's no reason what the effects are. As far as I can figure out, 380m euros a year for three years, so I'm subtracting these 60 billion, that's about 76 billion for pensions to be saved by applying this law for three years. So, the pensioners will bear a higher burden than the employees. Okay, I'd like someone to deny me. I'm just saying what I read in the laws that are sent here. Maybe the finance minister thinks he said the pensioners needed less money than the employees, so he decided that the greater burden of these reforms would be borne by the pensioners? All right, deny me some specific numbers. What's very interesting is the explanation of these laws. It's not written with the hand of an economist. And if you haven't read it, use today as we sit here and listen to the debate, read the explanation. That's very interesting. He was written by a lawyer. Some good lawyer, with a desire to facilitate the government's work before the courts that this law and the consequences of this law will surely be found. During this debate, we have received countless calls from our MPs' club, who ask, pensioners, will they get a solution based on which their pension has been reduced? They'll complain about that solution. We heard that 61% will not be covered by this reduction, and 72% is up to 35,000 dinars of pension, I think that's what the prime minister said, and the minister said that some million and a half in that group are up to 40,000 dinars of pension. But you'll have enough one in court to get a conviction, if he gets it, and to get all this in the water and to save all these 60 billion dinars for the next three years, someone else will have to pay in two, three, four years, as long as it takes for the trial to end. (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: Is that your President of the Court? I don't think it's really right for the vice president to throw me out of the bench without you reacting, Madam President?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11433	I don't know who you mean. You can see I'm alone here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11434	Follow up on a little debate. I meant from the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11435	I'm on it. I'm listening very carefully. None of the vice presidents are anywhere near me, so you didn't get a good look. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11436	He's in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11437	You go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11438	Thank you. I'll keep going. I think people in Serbia should have the opportunity to at least hear something else here in the last 20 minutes, because the last three hours have listened to praises about the government. On all the TVs for the last two days, we just listened and watched the ministers from the government praise this. There's nowhere to be heard from a different opinion, someone saying that maybe there's something wrong here, that maybe before the government retired, the government should have seen why the wages went up 7.6% in public enterprises? Why, Mr. Minister, this is data from your site, in January at the state administration, agencies and I don't know what you're running, 30,549 were employees, in October 33,932 employees, in 2014 it means, three and a half thousand people employed, when there's a Law on Employment in the State Administration? In local self-government, 900 new people have been employed. Did this government take advantage of everything she could before she started taking from the pensioners? That's my question. Convince me that you've done everything, and then we'll vote here, sharing responsibility for what was done in 2008/2009. In the time of the biggest economic crisis, this country was led better than it was today. The budget deficit was 4%. At the end of this year, it's going to be 8.5%. The four-year debt was six billion euros, and you owed the country 7.2 or 7.3 billion euros in two-and-a-half years. These debts from that year were not exclusively public spending, but also some capital investments were realised at the time. At that time, "Fiat" was created, which brought you GDP growth by 2.5% last year. I've asked here twice what the future of that factory is I didn't get an answer. What are we going to do, Mr. Prime Minister, if this factory reduces production next year compared to what it produced this year and last year? (Alexander Vukic, from the place: It is a question for you, not for me. How can that be a question for me from the opposition? You appointed two representatives to the Financial Supervisory Board, not me and my party. Sinisha Mali sat there until May of this year. Now sit down, Mr. Cicmil. Ask him what he'll do. You represent the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has 33.3% of the ownership in the factory. Don't talk to me. You have ruled this country for two and a half years. Stop talking like we're in September or October of 2012. I expect answers to the questions I've asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11439	Thank you, MP. The word is made by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11440	So I heard your question and I was surprised last time, so I'm glad I came today. I have to admit, I didn't understand him. We've given hundreds of millions of euros on your account for something. You're asking me now, if most of our own will or won't continue the job, what are we doing about it? Well, how are you not ashamed? So, what do we have to do with it? The majority owner asks here, and we're looking to help the majority owner in the way we can. You've never heard of me, even though I could say anything to you about that money, that I'm going to say a bad word about "Fiat." We're looking to help the Fiat and everything we can do to help the Fiat and ask the people of the Fiat if we're doing it? If anything ever happens, no responsibility will be given to this government. It's gonna be irresponsible for some other people, or market conditions. Just don't ask us that question, as God please. Just don't make us pay a billion for it, ask us what's wrong with it? What, did we contribute something, something wrong? We did what you couldn't. We'll get 10,000 quotas at least to take it to Russia, because we had a meeting with Vladimir Putin and we'll do it. Everything you couldn't do. We'll finish, let you know, everything you didn't do and the road to Kragujevac and the trafo station, everything you didn't meet, and you promised, we'll keep it. Don't worry. As far as we're concerned, we're not going to act as party as you are, we're going to do our job. Now you see, respected citizens of Serbia, what they do. They say you have 3,000 new employees and you might have sold it to MPs. Maybe you could've gotten away with it with the citizens. You know who these 3,000 employees are? Do you know who these people are? In total, there are 27 new employees in those two years, 27. At 25,440, it's 25,467, and these 3,900 are the ones that fire rockets against the construction, seasonal workers. Now, these are those anti-citizen missiles, those are the people that are bothering you. You could have asked and you'd have a normal explanation. We're not the ones who hire 15,000 people in the central administration, like you did when you came to power. The new employees are 27 people, and these are people who fire anti-building missiles. So much for the truth and so much for how you read the budget and how it says in the budget. And it says in your budget that RHMZ is. It says it's RHMZ, but you pretended not to see it, not to read it, so if the people can hear something that's wrong. Unlike you, we are responsible. Maybe we're incompetent, unable to rob the state, unable to destroy it the way you did, but to answer your questions precisely. You say two billion foreign investments in 2011. I'd be proud of everyone, and I didn't know and it's good to say it clearly. I see that there are now various witnesses who talk about Miskovic's relationship with politicians different, but it is good to be proud of Meskovic's sales to Deleze first and that's what was your greatest reach at all times, and I congratulate you on that. I admit it, and believe me, I'm sure we'll make an incomparably better result than that. Secondly, as for 2012, I want you to know that you ruled in 2012 longer than any other government. Seven months, let another rule for five months. You always like to add that year, half a year, and I don't know what it's all about. You forget we had a choice. I've been Prime Minister for five months. I've been dealing with other things, crime and corruption, for a year and a half, and I've won people's trust. Now I'm dealing with all the problems and the team, which is why it's shrinking. But I have to tell you, as far as structure and excise is concerned, you're right. We had a very bad excise charge on tobacco in the first seven months. For the last three months, it's not one month but three months, the excise on tobacco is growing and exceeding even our plan. We've been doing a little bit better than she used to. What we have problems with, that is, the real sector and production, that is, VAT collection and we are taking certain steps and it will not be an easy reform. That's what our biggest problem is, no doubt. They're net VAT numbers, not gross, but it's not very important. It's important that you said that, so now that the truth doesn't have much to do with it, it's not particularly important. As for these big expenditures where you said -- the rest of the current expenditures, so you found out that somewhere someone stole something, took something or didn't know what, it's important that the Serbian citizens hear that these other current expenditures are our expenditures for the floods that hit us. You could also clearly understand that from the budget you were reading, but you didn't want to understand. Now the question is asked me – should we solve the question of people who are flooded, should we help them or not? Every day you say we weren't able to give away more than 17,000 solutions and we paid for it, and if the dinar hadn't been stolen, unlike what was in Mionica and the King, or should we do nothing to keep you from criticizing us? I am for us to do our job, to help our people, and fortunately I will always have time once in two or three months to do all the false things and all the false things that you bring to Parliament I will at least be able to deny here. I'm not fascinated by the number or height of decibel as a key argument, and as far as unemployment is concerned, you'll get no polls that you've told us are very important, you've told us about it. This is otherwise a survey done according to the EU methodology. The European Union only recognises this survey. The European Union does not recognise our exact information that you will receive. I asked them to bring them to me now. You'll get the exact information, I think 46,588 people are less unemployed, don't hold my word, plus minus 1000 people. So I'm going to read you exactly all the data from month to month as that unemployment decreased. I'm interested in one thing. If that's all true what I'm saying, here's what we'll see if it's true or not, we'll see if I read the truth or not. If that were not true, you say – unemployment increased by two years 0.1%. In your time, at the time of your able and responsible government, unemployment has increased from 13.1% to 26.5%. I'm sorry, if that's the ability and responsibility, save me from God's abilities and responsibilities. Our key goal, since you quoted my statements, yes, I was against pension cuts all the time. Yes, I fought against it and here in the exposé I said when Mr. Petrovic understood it perfectly, if he was honest he would say it, I see that he applied for the discussion, I said then that pensions would be the last to be touched. I said we'd do our best not to touch any pensions and not touch 61% of pensions. Unfortunately, it's such a difficult situation, and because of the interest that's increasing, this year I think a billion and a hundred million we have to pay just for interest. A billion and a hundred million costs us interest. Is that our fault? I'll read you how debt grew and how you increased it and how you brought us such interest. Not to tell you the level of interest rates at which we were in debt at the time of a responsible and capable government. At 7.5% every five years, and now we're in debt at 10 years per 2%. And that's the difference between you and me. These numbers are very simple and very easily visible and very visible. Is people better? No, it's hard for people. Why is it in the law for three years? It stands in the law for three years, and you knew it was unfair that you asked it in front of the public because it was done against the state. Why? Because you know we need it to get an arrangement with the IMF. The second our incomes are increased, that's the second we take it off. Then we don't need anything anymore. You know why it's done. You know what the state is. But it's important to score some cheap points with the people. Look, it's gone on the rest of the current expenses. It is, folks, we're gone to help people who are flooded. That's the point. That we want an arrangement with the IMF. If you write them that the measure is temporary, they will say: We do not give you an arrangement. And you know it all well. What are you doing? There's someone to say - because they're nervous, because they're going to get someone 1,000 less, someone three, someone five. Let's tell them that's what they're doing here, right? Five months is the government's fault for this state of public finances. You know that the state of public finances is measured in 20, 30, 40 years, and that a great deal of damage is done in four years. Unfortunately, our greatest damage occurred during the crisis between 2008 and 2012. It's too bad. Just look at the data. Look how much public debt we've grown. See how many now in numbers to show you the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic from 29.9% of GDP to 56.2 and it's growing to us yet, it can't be stopped because we have to pay our pensions and salaries. We have to pay off everything. But we have to stop it at less than 90%, because we're at 90% of GDP in bankruptcy. In four years from 29.9 to 56.2 and all those who come, of course, have to continue to be in debt to pay off those obligations you're talking about. It goes without saying, and you know it well, and your people also know it well. That's why I didn't expect from some other parliamentary groups, I expected from your MP group and I expected understanding and support for what they know has to happen in Serbia, and I know that you know that it has to happen, and all your MPs know that it has to happen. You know, Mrs. Malovic also knows Petrovic, too, and Bogdanovic knows, you know. He knows Senic. Just pretend like you don't have to. Why does the IMF say that? Why does this measure support the IMF? Why does the World Bank support these measures? Why does this measure support the EU? Why did Catain support them? Because they're irresponsible? Because we're incompetent? Why are they supported by all the developed countries of the world? Because they know it's the only cure possible. Cancer is not treated with aspirin. We've been brought into a state of cancer, not guilty, not in debt, not guilty, not in debt. It's our fault that we didn't interfere with public finances and that we didn't even dream of it growing like this and that's how it's done in the past years. We now have to cure that cancer. After that, we must live normally and live incomparably better. That's why I'm surprised and it's the only thing I understand politics, I know what politics is, I know what it is when you have to say it or you want to say something like that, it makes it easier to score a point. But you need to take power tomorrow, you need to be responsible for people in Serbia, so will you... That's metaphorically said tomorrow. So I didn't joke about it, it's -- tomorrow is, is it in a year, two, three or four when it's going to be, or five when it's election, then it's, I didn't want to say -- a little tomorrow, I just said it's not tomorrow. So, no one would misread something for you, and I didn't have any bad intentions or intention to insult you in any way. You know how much effort has been made to make all of this happen. Vujovic spent twenty days in Washington to talk to them, to make the best possible plan. You know they have insight into our finances. I didn't make this up. They told us those four years were catastrophic. That's what Cvetkovic told me. Cvetkovic knew that and he told you that. That's what Diana Dragutinovic was saying and doing, that's what she knew. Some criticise us say – the budget rebalancing you brought to us in the Assembly, two days waiting, and the budget is not yet ready. No, you're right. I apologize for that. You know when we adopted your budgets. You know you never got us a budget in time. Never. It never happened once. We have established a budget on December 29th and 30th, so that the state does not enter into temporary financing. Don't worry, you won't adopt the budget on December 30th. We'll be much more responsible, we'll bring it to you incomparably earlier, so we can look at it together. This is the introduction to the fundamental reform budget for 2015 and you know it and you know that Serbia is entering such reforms. I just don't understand what that's about. I'm no expert on television and everything else. As you can see, I have no problem sitting here and answering every question, any objections. As far as ability and incompetence are concerned, all I have left is to answer you the question of unemployment and employment of accurate data, and I promise you that within an hour you will get a complete answer to see how low unemployment is, although I know that the good news is not passing in Serbia. I will remind you of the leader of your party, Mr. Pajtic, I apologize, the leader of another party, Mr. Pajtic, who said, I apologize to Mr. Djurisic, Mr. Tadic is a serious man and I do not believe that he would say such a thing, he said there would be 300,000 unemployed after the Labour Act, and what are we going to do now? Now we have less unemployed than there have been more employees than ever. What do we do with that? Where's the truth? Where's the truth about anything? When you're taking statements out of context, you should've taken out the exposés and said what I said in the exposé, and that's exactly what I said in the exposé, and that's how I acted. I tried to protect the most vulnerable categories together with my colleagues and do everything I can and expect less problems than all pensioners because they understand their country best and know best what their country is. I expect a lot more problems from those who think they can live on the pensioners' coat of arms and who can count on votes by having false information or false full or partial, as you just did, that the public is being deceived. So the other current expenditures are, to be clear, floods. I apologize for solving this problem. We'll solve it more. Our biggest problem, as you know, is the Western Darks and the inability to produce coal, but we're also solving it, and I believe that on December 15th we'll be in a position to produce. It's moving since December 1st because we have problems, a lot of problems. I can tell you about it if you're interested, but I believe from December 15th we'll be able to transport and transport coal from West Tamnava to Tenta and produce electricity. This will immediately restore our growth, i.e. to be in the positive, not the minimum. I expect that by solving all other problems about "The Irons", the chemical complex, and everything else, we can do. If I've been in any segment too sharp, I apologize. I've tried to answer every question you ask. I'll try to do it in the future. I'm just asking you to help us with this job because it doesn't last a day of life and it's not a day of congregation debate. I expect you as responsible MP groups to help us in this work, some of you I don't expect and I don't hide it and what some people are going to yell about, that's what someone's relationship is about to see. That's a compliment, not a criticism. Believe me, many more people in Serbia trust me than they trust them. Please show that kind of responsibility in the future because if we are not all working on it together, I have asked Mr. Krkobic for it, although it was very difficult for him to support these measures, to pray, to show him numbers, to show the charts and everything else that man could accept and to support such a thing, also Mr. Markovic and Mr. Ljajic and Mr. Dacic. So I ask you to look at it, to come to us, to get information for each number, to criticize, but to know that the state is going in the right direction, to know what we are doing and to know what reforms we need to implement. If our people don't want it to be implemented, we can't do it. Then we'll have a few more lost years so someone else can get hold of the authorities and they won't do anything. I have no fear because I stole nothing. I have hope that we can change ourselves, that we can change the state, and I can't. That can't be my party alone either. We can only do this together, so I'm asking you to just take care of it, and you're going to get very precise information about the level of unemployment not only of seasonal workers, but also of September and October, what we've been able to do after that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11441	The word was asked for by Minister Vulin. (National MP Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. ) Just tell me a member of the Rules of Procedure – replica with representatives of the Government. Help me, please. Just tell me a member of the Rules of Procedure. Be nice. (Employee Marko Djurisic, from the post: Article 104) Now I'm going to read 104 to you. - If the MP in his presentation at the session of the National Assembly is offended about the MP... (National MP Marko Djurisic, from the post: My discussion was misrepresented. I'll read it all to you. Read it, too, so we don't waste any time. (People's MP Marko Djurisic, from the post: According to this article, everyone is considered a national MP. That applies to every participant. ) Please also Vice President, she doesn't have to throw it to me, I'll be told by a member of the Rules of Procedure, she's known as someone who sticks to the Rules of Procedure. I don't mind, I'll break the Rules of Procedure. You're an MP who's strict about it and is looking for permanent injuries to the Rules of Procedure when I run sessions and others. I can't really, I'm so sorry. Probably in part two, when the authorized is finished, you'll be able to do your part as an MP, so it's easier to conduct the debate. I must give my word to Minister Alexander Vulin. I'm sorry to be wasting my time, but you've brought this Rules of Procedure, and I have a lot of understanding that you want to change all that and we're changing, it's not a problem, but today it can't. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure, not to throw away and respect the dignity of this House, it is also according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Minister. I apologize on behalf of all MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11442	Thank you. Your Honor, Prime Minister, I'm sorry, I'm going to present the information, this is something that I was talking about at the press conference, this is something that my portfolio is and I'm responsible for the data that's being presented here. So, in September of the month, according to false information, false services, false states, all the lies of this world, the National Employment Service, we had 748,549 unemployed persons on our record. You can believe that it's very precise because a good part of those faces makes a material compensation for being recorded on this list, so, a little who would sign up for being unemployed without it. Compared to August, based on all the lies of this world, of course, unemployment has been reduced by 8,649 unemployed, and you're going to make it very easy to calculate because these people don't get paid, these people don't get certain benefits. Look at the wonders, they want to be erased from the records so they don't get paid for something. Also, there is another false institution which, of course, as well as the National Employment Service as a reference recognition of the whole of Europe, which is also probably another one of the false institutions, which is the Republic Statistics Office. Another lie presented by the Republic Statistics Institute said in September, compared to August, unemployment was reduced by 1.15%, compared to the same month of the previous year by 1.43%. Of course, another false and horrible institution – the Republic Statistics Institute, which has managed to deceive the EU and the rest of the world, but there you are, and I really congratulate you on that. Also, there is another ghastly, lying institution that presented data from January to August that the status of newly reported 143,660 people and this horrible and lying institution is called the RFZO, but where it cannot lie to the RFZO is that it is based on payment applications. So 143,660 people paid their health insurance. It's either a big conspiracy where everyone pays themselves or they get a job. It's gonna be like they got a job. It's an average of 17.958 people on the monthly level. If you were correct, as he asked you to be Prime Minister, you would say that you find the structure of the newly employed unsatisfactory, and there would be plenty of time to talk about it, to agree and disagree, how much of those who are on a certain time, how much of those who are indefinitely. There would be talk of how many seasonal workers, how many in the informal sector, would be able to talk about it. It would be possible to discuss whether we are satisfied, how many young people there are, to discuss whether we are satisfied with the number of people we employ most, such as persons with disabilities, such as people in over 50 years, such as people at a low level of education. That would all be discussed, but it can't be discussed that in the second quarter of this year the unemployment rate dropped to 23%, which is 0.5% lower than last month. I'll remind you, at a time when you were unique and when you all felt together that you were led by the best and smartest people you'd never change, and the most beautiful, I agree with Gasic, even if you went into opposition, so at least you swore. The unemployment rate was 26% in 2012. I'm sorry this rate isn't lower, I'm sorry we didn't hire more people. (National MP Marko Djurisic, from the post: 23.9%. I'm sorry, 26.1%. I'm sorry we haven't hired more people, I'm sorry we don't have time to use all the resources we need to hire from people with disabilities through active employment measures and many others. So we might even be a little late this year, not hiring 5,000, as we've calculated, but 4,400, 4,300 people. Now as we speak, 70 contracts have been split into the National Employment Service. I'm sorry it's all gone, but I'm really not sorry that you're not in this business anymore, because if you were doing this job, the rate would be at 30%, the privatisation would be done in a robbery way, as it was started, and no one would take care of all these people. We've changed something. Not enough? I agree with that. Want some more? We want more. Have we done enough? We haven't done enough. Can we do better? We can do better. But if we'd done better than you, if we'd hired more people, that we'd provided bread for more people and not lie to this people, because I'm just listening to you say, I'm sorry, this is a little dyscram, I'm finishing up, about how you're looking for a pension solution. Why didn't you share solutions when you increased your pensions? So it's possible to increase, but it's not possible to reduce. So, the Constitution breaks when pensions are reduced because you don't want to spend money, but it doesn't break when you're spending not earned. Now, that doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11443	Thank you, Minister. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a regular break of one hour. We keep working at 15.00 hours exactly. [[After a break.]] Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the Assembly will work after 18.00 hours, because of the need to pass laws and other acts in the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The minister's here. We can proceed with the debate, only if someone logs in from authorized representatives. Marko Djurisic, what does this mean? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Replica? We have agreed that the replica is the discretionary right of the President of Parliament, Article 104(3). (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11445	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe the injured member is 116. The Rules of Procedure of this Rules of Procedure shall apply to other participants in the session of the National Assembly. I think it is clear from this that Article 104, which speaks of the right to replica after the presentation of the MP, should, instead of the MP, be held by the Minister or Prime Minister, on the basis of Article 116, refer to you and that you had to give me a replica to the presentation of the Prime Minister for two minutes and to the presentation of the Minister for Labour. I think you've hurt this Rules of Procedure and I ask you to give me the right to reply by following it and Article 104. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11446	Thank you. I need to point you to Article 104 and Section 3. - on the use of the right to position 1 and position 2 of this member shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly, which means that he has discretionary rights, so you are wrong again. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. No, we're not. It is already an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and I am convinced that you need time in the debate and that you will not easily accept a two-minute delay. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Impossible, there must be a direct injury in the response. You can only be dissatisfied with the answer. You've been an MP for so long, you know. So, do you want to vote? If you are unhappy, sanctions are a vote, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure again. Hold on to that. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I am dissatisfied. ) The next speaker is Djordje Stojsic. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Have we established, will the breach of the Rules of Procedure be voted upon?) Yes, you said to vote and absolutely vote. That's a potential sanction, and we'll see what the majority in parliament thinks. The word has Gjorge Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11447	Thank you. President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can all agree today that the economic situation in our country is extremely difficult and that is not only for us here in parliament, but also for international financial institutions, and the citizens feel it best on their own. The budget we are talking about today, or budget rebalancing, is something that is practically just an accounting category compared to the overall state of economy and our economy. We're doing rebalancing in October, although we're practically just notifying what happened this year, and he's not saying anything new compared to what we all knew more or less. No one thinks that neither the prime minister, nor Minister Vujovic, nor the minister before him, are any financial alchemists, regardless of their knowledge and expertise, which we have no doubt. It will be very difficult to deal with the problems we face today, and they are certainly not small. Our economy's problems are systemic and stemmed from 25 years of diverse political and economic experiments. In the 1990s, it was a mass robbery and the destruction of our economy. After 2000, we prescribed solutions from a developed capitalist world that may have largely failed to apply to us. Today we have come into a situation where we have all macroeconomic indicators of a negative, trading deficit, we have a negative balance of current account, we have a negative GDP growth, we have a negative trend in industrial production compared to how one company in Serbia operates, I mean "Fiat", and we have inflation that is the only positive parameter and at the lower limit is the rate of targeted inflation that is propagated by our National Bank. We witnessed a fiscal consolidation in the course of last year which, we see, has not yielded results. The VAT has been increased from 18% to 20% and from 8%, local self-government transfers have been reduced, has been a solid tax and the state is said to be accounted for by the grey economy. We did not, of course, support these measures for the reason that we believe that there were much better measures that the state could implement, but what is essential is that today we in Serbia have a negative trend in terms of GDP growth, i.e. we do not have any growth. Last year we had negative 2%, this year we also had zero, and next year it's a big question. In my opinion, and not only for me, but also for what some economists say, it is the growth of social product that we should concentrate on when we talk about economic issues, or about the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Restrictive fiscal and monetary policy is something we should not support in years of recession, and that is exactly what is now causing recession and deflation and stagnation across Europe and is also the subject of sharp criticism. We often compare our situation today with what the UK experienced after World War I. The example is often mentioned, and this is that they also had high interest rates and restrictive monetary fiscal policy, and by the end of the 1990s they did not come to the level of public debt and GDP relations, when they entered the spiral that we are entering today. We have a situation that because a massive state apparatus, which is highly centralized, burdens the economy that the financial system practically does not exist, except that banks buy deposits from citizens. Our savings aren't small, it's about eight billion euros. The only thing banks do, practically finance public debt, buy deposits from citizens and place them to the state at interest rates that private people can't pay, or the economy can't be in debt with these same banks, and for that reason we don't have any investment, and that's why we can't see it on GDP. All in all, what's going to happen next year is that we're going to have a negative aggregate demand, no investment, and we can only rely on some foreign investment that can always happen and don't have to. So far, we see that these foreign investments are lagging to the extent that this would be necessary and going to other parts of the world where transmission rates are far better than with us and where the economic environment is far more orderly than with us. Besides public debt, we also have a problem and private debt. When we reduce public spending, private debt will also grow, as neither citizens nor businesses will be able to repay loans. Now they're invulnerable claims in banks about 30%. All in all, we think that these are extremely negative movements and what we should be interested in, that's exactly the ratio of deficits to GDP. The trend in which we are now going to continue to grow, i.e. the deficit will increase compared to GDP, precisely because GDP continues to fall. Retirement of pensions, it's a big topic and I think it's a key topic in this set of laws, but I think those who proposed to increase these same pensions a few years ago, because elections were coming in or out of some luxuriant political goals. This country creates an atmosphere that pensioners are some sort of burden of this society even though they are the people who built this country and regularly paid their contributions for years, and today, when they are due to receive that pension, they are declaring themselves a burden of some kind of budget. Clearly, we have a million and 700,000 pensioners, we have 900 thousand employees and 780,000 people working in the public sector. I think it's wrong of me to have five million employees to support this level of cost in the pension fund. I don't think that's true, because if the salaries were 90,000, not 40,000 and two-and-a-half million employees, they could then support the pension system. But the problem with the pension system is something else, that's what we call public expenditure, and what's not mentioned is that the pension fund and how it was capitalized at a time when our economy was much more powerful, and in the 1990s, the state robbed that pension fund in strange ways, and today it's 60% of the budget, without anyone asking a question, what happened to the funds that were in that pension fund. The second thing, if the state is not able to pay out pensions, that is, if the Pension Fund has bankrupted whether it means that only some pensioners should bear the burden of these facts or other government creditors, because this is a government debt, because if foreign creditors are believed to be secure, that this is a sovereign debt, that is why the Republic of Serbia is not the case with the Pension Fund. The effect of these reductions will be 5%. The second question is why is not reduced 5% linearly compared to all pensions, but only those who have made more payments in terms of contributions are punished? The other thing is pay. Linearly, profits are reduced in the public sector 10%, and what will happen is that both contributions and taxes will be lower, as the base is also reduced. So we're going to get into a very strange spiral and ask if we're going to get out of it, because the ultimate effect of all that is going to be that we're going to have less income in these two funds, precisely because the public sector is making so much contribution in terms of pay. A 10% reduction will practically cancel these savings that we have a pension reduction. Of course, if they were just criticising, and they weren't proposing anything, they would be critics, but I think there are certain measures that the state could implement, and they primarily refer to the agriculture sector. Since I come from Vojvodina, and agriculture is constantly being declared our big chance, the reduction of the agriculture ministry's division doesn't seem to think it's a smart thing, and we think it should stop the period when we're going to keep looking at the sky and on the basis of agricultural yields, count on whether we're going to have a drop or GDP growth. The subsidies that are now reduced for landowners who have over 20 hectares, I think they will unfairly hit the most farmers in Vojvodina, given the size of the property. So far, it is true that 60% of all subsidies are allocated outside of Vojvodina, and 60% of the land is located in Vojvodina, which is something we should ask ourselves why and how long agriculture will be the only one who suffers when we talk about fiscal consolidation. We have proposed multiple times to form a fund of state land that is not a small resource and a large resource in this country, and that on the basis of state land that the state could collate, the securities of value could be broadcast, or it could be owed on the account of some 500 million euros, and the use of these funds for agricultural development projects. When we talk about regulating the energy sector it's also a great opportunity instead of reducing pensions and salaries of doctors, teachers and teachers. We think that the increase in the mining rent that the Russian company is now paying less than in Russia, or there is 7%, in some countries is 20%, would have a much greater impact on the budget than these planned savings. That's something we'll keep insisting on. There are various projects that could get this country out of a situation where we're already in debt to the Russian Federation, so now we have to give them petrochemicals, and I don't know what to do to get out of that debt slavery. Half of Europe is building liquid oil gas terminals, Lithuania has now done so, and the project would be worth it within a year, given that Gazprom has reduced the price of gas by exactly that much. As for some other expenditures, we can calculate what revenue would be if churches and religious communities were introduced by VAT and if they finally started paying taxes, not that we are paying from the budget now, that is, all Serbian citizens to pay 600 million dinars and 180 million for the construction of religious communities, while at the same time reducing salaries for teachers and teachers, while governments are driving new audiences and Mercedes. We can also consider decentralisation of the tax administration and the entire fiscal system. We used to have municipal income administrations, so the municipalities were motivated to collect that tax, because the surplus stayed with them, and so financed the entire system from down to up, which is no longer the case, but the funds are being transferred by the Republic to municipalities, and it is shrinking year after year. I see that the Fiscal Council even calls for further reductions in the incomes of local self-government, in the end we will not have local self-government but only republican offices and municipalities. As for "The Railway", "Srbiagas", capitalization "Dunav Insurance", etc., it's a theme that is famous for everyone, but before reducing pensions, I think we have to ask ourselves why the Russians should send trains and equipment that needs to replace the rails and thresholds, and then we pay for the deck and we stand, it's the same equipment, because they can't start work because our railways can't provide thresholds. It's all just some of the options we could do. We, of course, insist on finally passing the Law on the financing of the Vojvodina, so that when we talk about each budget, we don't have to discuss what 7% is, which is not 7%, and that the expenditures that are not at all within the scope of the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina are constantly being set up. Now we have a situation that, for example, the pathways of the second and third lines have been transferred to the ownership of the Autonomous province, but no funds have been provided to finance the repair or construction of that road network. That's what we're most concerned about from Vojvodina. And to go back to Protestant ethics, and the spirit of capitalism, since it's been quoted here several times, we can't compare ourselves with countries where there's a whole other philosophy, which is that they live to work, and we work to live, and that's something that neither this government nor many others will succeed in changing. The situation in which we are currently, at least as far as the economy is concerned, is very insecure and really regardless of which party we come from, we should advocate a situation where a business environment will be created, where we will not have the credit rating we have now, which is be-be minus, and where our charters of the Republic of Serbia are still called "creatures" towards investment houses, but also our economy and our country will be able to be in debt at very lower interest rates and only then will we be able to finance any economic growth. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will not support this budget rebalance because systemic measures are lagging behind again, and as we have pointed out before, as long as the AP Vojvodina Finance Act is not passed, we will not support a single republican budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11448	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11449	Dear Madam President of the Serbian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers and Representatives of the Government of Serbia, honourable fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are attending an unprecedented debate in Serbia's new political and economic history. On the agenda are extremely serious, extremely difficult measures, austerity measures that will affect the wide layers of the population. So it's not just about politicians, it's not about ruling positions or opposition, it's not about our membership, it's about the widest layers of citizenship, not only of those whose pensions and salaries will be reduced, but also of their families. That's why I'm so happy that in this reasoned way we're taking our positions. There is also the Prime Minister of Serbia and Ministers, and also the distinguished fellow heads of parliament groups, used concrete figures in their presentations, and that is how we should discuss this topic. Each figure is one specific man, and as I said, it's not just a group of people, it's a large number, hundreds of thousands of people including their family members, it's over a million. I, looking at the composition of today's government representatives and the esteemed prime minister and ministers who spoke, remembered a scene from December 2011, when we had the opportunity to see the Minister of Social Policy of Italy on screens, was called Fornero, if I am not mistaken. She said when she explained similar austerity measures, much better, well-being Italian citizens, when she asked them for the victim in the way our minister Vujovic used the term, while also seeking solidarity, but also the victim, she cried. Maybe it's because she's a woman and maybe we're just ahead of our minister of social policy work as a man, but I want to say in taking these kind of measures, the arguments aren't even tears, unfortunately, it's not a strike and it's a good thing that's the case. It is important that this difficult decision, this is a responsible decision and we talk, and that is why I want to say on behalf of the SPS political group that we have come very responsibly to consider this problem, aware of all the negative consequences, but in the long run positive and come to the conclusion that we should support these measures. The fact is that citizens who traditionally vote, not only for the Socialists but also for the leading party in this coalition of the SNS and other social democratically-oriented, left-wing, socially responsible members of the ruling coalition, are indeed, therefore, voters, our voters may be the most affected by this and just as Prime Minister Mr. Vukic explained that those who are doing well, if I am not mistaken, are using an example of the professor, that even less will be affected by these restrictive austerity measures than they were by a solid tax. So, I would like to stress that there is no political calculation here, on the contrary, leadership and accountability is understood and reflected in making difficult, extremely difficult decisions. Mr. Prime Minister has already stressed that we have not been forced, the ruling structure has not been under an ultimate request, whether by international financial organisations or under pressure from some other internal-political factors to bring such a measure, and this responsibility is also greater. I think it's a brave decision, and it's precisely because we stand with full responsibility in front of our electoral body, in front of citizens who will be hit, those who work and who are financed in the public sector from the budget or those who receive pension, it's one long-term investment in the recovery of the Serbian economy. Minister Vujovic will know better, I recently read in "National Interest", it is a prominent American magazine, which quotes the World Bank's report, where the Serbian economy is said to be the performance of the Serbian economy below its potential. So, from abroad, we are signaled that we have resources that are not used and that can be mobilised much better and in a much more organised way. Of course, the mandate of this government was plagued by catastrophic floods, but I think the reform moves we are currently considering in the legislative body and the whole government stands for, that this signal is that we want to heal the dormant and halted Serbian economy. The important thing is to say what is obvious. There's always an alternative. It is never that there is no alternative, and exactly and in the bill of this law it is said, it is true that there are other options for solving this problem and it is written, you could all read, that this problem of the fiscal deficit could be solved by increasing tax rates or reducing other expenditures. Why are these measures good? It is also written that this law does not burden the economy. So, the burden of these measures is being fully transferred to the largest layers of the population administratively in order to change behavior in the manner that Finance Minister Vujovic has clarified, that it is in our interest to promote a culture of responsibility and a culture of savings. Recently, a few days ago, I was inspired by the exposure of a young fellow MP who used the illustration of "fire". I think that right now we are faced with one such fire and it's a good thing the Serbian government recognized that the fire was at the initial stage and with a different possibility of reacting to one such fire, before one crisis. Or if we were standing frozen, paralyzed by fear, calling firemen, I don't know who would play the role of firefighters, maybe international donors or the IMF, or organize ourselves to look for the well that we have, to grab the water, to form a chain of citizens, and that water that will put out that fire goes hand to hand. That is why solidarity is important in carrying the burden of these measures, and that is why we as a parliamentary group of Socialists support these measures in order to promote this culture of solidarity and evenly bear the burden. The important thing is that the most endangered will not be, the oblivious will not be burdened with this, so the poorest layers of the population will not be pushed even deeper poverty, into a vicious cycle of poverty from which they will not be able to escape. It is also important to preserve the structure of this budget rebalance proposal, the cost structure by functional classification. We see that with the exception of budget rebalancing we still respect what is written in our constitution, which is that we are a socially just and socially responsible state because the biggest expenditure in this budget rebalance proposal is given for social protection. There was also recently a defence minister, so I remembered the same comparison that politicians should always decide whether to give more for food and perhaps clothes than for cannons and weapons, and we see that the funds that will be allocated to defence or public order and security are only in fifth and sixth place. So the quality of people's lives comes first and this government continues its policy of protecting the widest layers of population. I would remind you that these measures have a perspective. So we need to look at where we are today, where we are and what kind of trouble we are to know where we're going to be in 2017. The deadline for the hearing of these measures is December 2017. Maybe that's our problem that we personally, not just as a state, don't have that plan where we're going to be in 2020. The crisis in Serbia, the crisis in the former Yugoslavia began in 1981, not only with the March demonstrations of Kosovo Albanians, I stress that today we are still dealing with this problem of Kosovo and Metohija, but also with the fact that at the same time it has somehow announced the external debt of the former Yugoslavia. He's also big today, and we have to solve these problems. We can't spend three decades without starting a dormant Serbian economy. I would like this opportunity to promote Serbia's vision in 2016. So it was a series of 12 round tables organised in 2011 and 2012, organised by the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, attended by businessmen, attended by local self-government representatives, as well as political parties and movements. The vision of the Serbian economy in 2016 was based on the following pillars. Number one, the gray economy is contained. Today we are facing the problem of the gray economy, and this is what the government said as a priority. Thirty per cent of gross social product is a major burden on the shoulders of the Serbian economy. Under number two, 2016 should be reduced and parafiscal charges lifted, then reduced salary taxes, but property taxes increased. Today, respected representatives of the opposition through the media are promoting one, so to speak, a simplified vision of what this government is doing. They use, to put it that way, cartoon characters from some funny, comedian comics. Our leftist policy is usually illustrated by that Robinhud principle, that you take from the rich and give from the poor. They make parody, and they call these measures super-hic measures. I would really like it to be that simple and it's so funny, but there are great responsibilities for taking this concept of measure and long-term consequences. So I emphasized that we are not burdening ourselves, we are liberating the economy. So, we're not burdening it with high tax rates, and unfortunately, since 1990 or 1981, our people have been through a lot of economic temptations, and maybe we're used to the greatest fear, maybe we're similar to the Germans, from hyperinflation. We now see that inflation is no longer a problem for us. Our problem is what's the problem in Europe, and that's unemployment, but there's a shift. I would also point out what Mr. Vujovic stressed, that the subsidy policy will be reconsidered not only in public enterprises. Of course, it is always attractive for foreign investors, but I would also point out that we have been too expensive to share subsidies to some businessmen who have come to make a quick or unprofitable profit and when they see that they cannot survive on the market, escape and take as much as cheaply bought Serbian factories. You know that the divided subsidies are like some kind of sugarball from 2,000 to 10,000 euros. The average subsidy was around 5,700 euros and during that time 252m euros were spent to create only 44,000 jobs. It's too expensive. The Prime Minister said the National Employment Service has registered the employment of 46,000 new workers, that the labour market is relaxed and that is one trend to continue. I really don't think we have anything to be afraid of, not just because this parliament, as the English would say, can vote whatever it wants, except for turning a man into a woman and vice versa. We have that majority. But when we face arguments, I think it's always better to talk and look at problems from all sides. What I say as the first among the equals, as the boss, I have the honour of being the head of the parliamentary group amongst the truly extremely high-quality, educated and capable staff of the Socialist Party of Serbia, but when I look back on this front row or to the right, and sometimes in my ranks of the Socialist Party, and when I see an empty chair, I think it's the most devastating policy. The empty chair policy in the Serbian parliament and the escape of responsibility is not a good policy. Not only is it not important for our political career, but it is simply to run away from problems and then it is better to escape from politics than to take that place representing about 15,000 citizens' votes. Now that I look to the right, let this not be understood as a provocation, but it really fascinates me that the representatives of the opposition so authoritatively advocate to attack this concept of measure, while the leaders of their parties have not found it appropriate to sit in the Serbian parliament. They're not the leaders of the opposition. It is also surprising to foreigners when they come because they expect the opposition fight to be fought in parliament and that it is the best place to argue with arguments, to respect citizens, to respect citizens' interests. That's why, with all due respect to the heads of Parliament, I ask them where their leaders are to face our views? It's very hard to get into a normal everyday life. Some of us are smaller, some of us are more famous among citizens. I really think that the citizens who are going to have several thousand less in their wallet are going to find it extremely difficult. They feel that their human dignity has been injured, but I must also point out that the dignity of future young generations has been preserved. That money we have doesn't belong to either the SPS or the SNS, and it's not afraid of any ideological colors. So neither he's socialist, nor he's democratic, nor he's red, green, yellow and any other color. This money, which we are saving now, belongs to future generations and it is an investment in the future and it is our contribution to children who can have a much better standard. We are such a people. So, we're used to egalitarian models maybe since former socialism and former communism, but it'll be easier if we all sacrifice a little, if we all cut some of our spending a little bit. This feeling of solidarity that is manifested whenever a child is sick, whenever Serbia joins to help save one young human life or what has proved to be in floods when we have helped one another, especially our youth, that is the investment and that is an excuse for these austerity measures. So, I conclude, the Socialist Party of Serbia, under full responsibility, although the minority partner is in force in this government, also assumes responsibility for the adoption of these austerity measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11450	The word is made by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11451	I would like to thank Ambassador Stojsic and especially Mrs Vukomanovic. It is common that representatives of political parties do not speak well of even a representative of the government if it is from another political party. I'm grateful for your explanations. There's only one thing I don't agree with you, it's not essential, and that's that the fire is at the initial stage. The fire, unfortunately, has gone far. I have this second example or metaphor where I'm saying that we didn't get on a boat in Southampton and sail for an ice dream, we're already in the Titanic, which has already hit an ice dream, and now we have to save ourselves. I'll tell you why, but before I go any further, I want to answer Mr. Stojsic just one thing, confident that you said it in your best interest. So, I want to tell you that we've never been in a better position to be in charge. I'm going to read you all of our numbers now so you know all the possibilities of borrowing. Serbia has never had a better liquidity, Serbia has never been better on the Eurobond market. We're on that market today, not counting bilateral terms that are the best we've got for a dollar, 2% ten years from the Emirates, that's absolutely the best, and don't measure it with anything, I'm talking about market conditions. On market terms, we have five years, if I'm not wrong 3.5%, at ten years 4.4%. So we've never had such good borrowing conditions in our history. Why is it so that you know? This is because the international community, because the international capital market has confidence in the Serbian government, knows that we are carrying out good measures, knows that we are implementing reform measures, knows that we want to talk ahead of time about fiscal consolidation measures and that is why these numbers are most important to us. That's why we're not threatened by any bankruptcy at this point, but we just want to heal our economy, so we don't get into that danger at the end of 2016 and early 2017. Not because we don't have other options for action right now. I'll read you all our numbers now, to see the situation in the dinar and foreign accounts of the Republic of Serbia at the moment. Therefore, the balance of foreign exchange accounts in euro is: 258,914.615, the funds available, therefore, are unarmed 164.035.972, the funds of the Restitution Fund 94.850,000, the unauthorized funds of the Restitution Fund 28.643. State of foreign exchange accounts in US dollars – a billion and 304 million 442 thousand 589, funds available to an unarmed 789 million 766 thousand, worth 500 million. The funds of the Restitution Fund are 14 million 650 thousand. Serbia's dinar vault: 142 billion 488 million 338 thousand 908 dinars. An account for the execution of the Republic of Serbia's budget, 38 billion 574 million. The area for internal loans in dinars is 30 billion. There are 131 billion 851 million 22 000 186 dinars available on armed money. We're liquid that I think we've never, as far as I can remember, been more liquid in the last seven or eight years. It's not a liquidity problem. I see some political leaders don't understand what this is all about. That's not the problem. (I'm not talking about you)... Are we going to get 300 or 400 or 500 million somewhere? We need to heal our system. Thanks to the great success achieved by "Er Serbia", our airport today is worth three times what it was worth just a year ago. It's the airport with the largest passenger growth in all of Europe. You know what a success that is? It's the only thing we're best at in Europe. The biggest growth in all of Europe. Instead of estimated 250m euros, we can get a safe 600, 700m euros plus in an investment a billion and a half, maybe more. And everyone wants to take it. Don't let me tell you what a battle it is for Belgrade's airport from all over the world, the Germans of Turks, French and all, just thanks to the company that has achieved the greatest success. I'm talking about the concession, of course, whether it's 25 or 30 or 35 years old, that's our thing. I just want to tell you that it's data, and that we bring these measures not because we're in some big problem, we can choose the moment when we're going to issue Eurobonds. As you can see, we don't have any more. What's important to us, that's to systematically reduce the deficit, that's to systematically show that we can't spend more than we've earned. Because once we take 500 million from something, next year we get that 500 million again. We haven't solved the problem. Let's take a billion, next year it comes to us and we haven't solved the problem. We need to systemically balance it once and for all and solve it. I remained in debt for precise unemployment data, which we spoke of earlier this afternoon. In January 2014, according to the National Employment Service, which is the last time I was told that they did not accept the polls of the Republic Bureau of Statistics and I was told by representatives of individual parties here that it was the only institution whose reports are accepted, because it was the exact numbers, we had 788 thousand 712 unemployed; in February 793 thousand 625; in March 790 thousand 501; in April 786 thousand 988; in May 778 thousand 577; in June 773 thousand 369; in July 769, 340; in August 779, 243 and September 748 thousand 549. Compared to the previous month, therefore, compared to August, the number of unemployed persons was reduced by 8 thousand 694, and 1.15 respectively, while compared to the same month of the previous year, September 2013, there was a decrease in the number of unemployed by 1.43. If you are looking from February 2014, when we had the highest number of unemployed this year, 793 thousand 625, this reduction totals 45 thousand 76 people, which is 5.68% less people on the National Employment Service records than in February. And I was wrong about a little less than 400 faces, and I apologize for that, and it was my fault, but, as you can see, the data we provided was accurate. I want to call again on what Mrs. Vukomanovic was talking about. We have entered these measures not because we love them and not because someone likes them, but because only such measures can lead to the recovery of the Serbian economy, to the progress of the Serbian economy. And I know all MPs know that. And I know you're talking to strangers, and I know you're talking to absolutely everyone. And you all know that if we're disciplined and we get through this, that's the way of success. The question is, are we gonna turn ourselves in to day-to-day political demagogy or are we gonna do some serious business? It is our job to work in the interests of the state and we will remove that deadline, as some have spoken – it is until 2017, and we will remove that deadline, so to Vujovic, from the law itself, so that it is not limited by that deadline. That all the people in Serbia know it's up to us, that all the people in Serbia know it's up to us, that everything depends on what, how and how we're going to do it. So, if we're successful and we're successful on the income side, if we're successful on the income side and we manage to preserve this nobody excise or increase them, and if we manage to increase VAT collection or continue this trend from September and October of the month, then I believe we have a great chance, along with all these other measures that we've talked about, related to companies in restructuring, for public enterprises and for all these investments we've already talked about, I would say, we're talking. In any case, I want to thank you for your serious discussion, for your serious support, because I think that the difference between responsible and irresponsible people is always that you will recognize the responsible man because he does not seek a easier solution at all costs, but that he knows that sometimes it is possible to get to the right goal by the hard way, but that always brings results, unlike that easier. You know, when two athletes train, always the one who trains a lot more and who is much more diligent, even though it's incomparably more difficult for him and if maybe something less talented. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11452	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11453	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues. (Zoran Babic, from the scene: A colleague? Just wait, there's time to throw. I am one of those irresponsible ones, as you say, the destroyer of Serbia, the object of your recent virologists, the Ebola that we represent in our society, who believes that these solutions that you are making, not that they are not more difficult, but that they are completely destructive, completely without any effect and unfortunately the citizens of Serbia, without any positive outcome. That's our opinion. This does not mean that someone is irresponsible, Prime Minister, but that someone has different suggestions and a different vision of solving a particular problem, perhaps different ways to solve it. There are people here who say there are no party heads. I wouldn't look forward to it. Their boss may soon appear in the benches, as things stand, but let's get back to the subject. It wasn't for you. So I like it when you, Prime Minister, say this is the first time something has happened in history. You often say it's the first time that's happened in history. I was counting -- this is even the seventh time you've said something was the first time in history. So in that sense, you've really proven that you're special on our political scene. It's one of your personalities. The second is that you often mention film, say, metaphors and sports. There's a president, formerly, of this country who's been fond of doing it, and now you know what political situation it is. I also disagree with you that we have the Messiah here. You're neither the Messiah nor the Messiah, although perhaps some, or even you, believe it. You always say you don't run from anyone. No one's after you, Mr. Wolfie. You are chasing yourself by creating problems and the complete economic and social destruction of this country. You're being chased by your failed voters, you're being chased by pensioners, employees of whom, I must say, you've said quite different things than what you're doing right now. They'll be chasing you tomorrow and your coalition partners swearing to left-wing, and now they're raising their hands to cut wages and pensions. They'll have to explain it, not who's sitting in the benches. It's a serious thing. I think when I listened to you, Mr. Wolfie, carefully, I'd like to live in such a Serbia that you're talking about here today. I would very much like to live in Serbia with you and your ministers, your friends. It is a great Serbia, secure, secure, situationed, with a perspective, with controlled information, embellished media, pink glasses that you put on the eyes of Serbian citizens. You're saying... (The People's Messenger Zoran Babic, from the place: Is this a theme?) )......................................................................................................... Yeah, same as the prime minister's. You say we have expressed macroeconomic stability, a dinar course stable, a decline in inflation, and everything is excellent in the Serbian economy, fiscal policy, the social sphere. I don't really agree with that. Worst of all, I think more and more Serbian citizens see this huge proportion from what you say and how people live. I don't want to in any way, because I know you'll cut after that argument, to ablimate DS mistakes from the past. But I speak to you as a man who is an MP in this House and as a man whom the citizens call and ask me to tell you these things. No mother called me this morning to ask me if I had to vote for this rebalance, because she knows I won't vote for this rebalancing. You, Mr. Vukic, are reducing wages and pensions, let's just say pension, now at this point, you're cutting pensions by 680,000 Serbian citizens, 680,000 pensioners, respected citizens, will have reduced pensions. At the same time, you say they won't have a reduced pension until 25,000, which is true. But it is also true that very poor macroeconomic indicators, the decline in the value of our domestic currency, the rise in prices to small, the rise in energy prices and drugs will affect everyone, including pensioners who have up to 25,000, as well as those who receive a salary of up to 25,000 dinars. I have to tell you, well, I know you're gonna train us professionally using foreign expressions to fascinate people you keep talking to, but that doesn't work here, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11454	Ambassador, you have an obligation to speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11455	I'm sorry. What's said here is, say, the Labour Act. He's only been in effect for a month, Mr. Wolf. There's nothing to show for it, as you said 100,000, 200,000 unemployed. Easy, you're great at it, you'll get that number. We don't need Mrs. Merkel or Mr. Putin to say it's a great reform. They won't live here. They won't live here, Mr. Wolfie. The labour law is disastrous everywhere, and I say it every place. It's not for you. That's my opinion. tycoons. Don't get those tycoons, Mr. Wolfie. Everyone's totally with you today. Whatever you tell them, they'll do and stand on their hands if you ask. The Pink TV since you're in power owes over 300 million for taxes. Since you've been in power. I know that they are returning to you in nature probably by constantly promoting you, but it simply brings no advantage to the citizens of Serbia. (The People's Messenger Zoran Babic, from the place: Is that a theme? ) The theme is budget rebalancing, wage cuts and pensions carried out by your government. Fifty thousand people from the SNS have employed you in the public sector in the last two years, as Mr Krstic said. I don't know if you remember Mr. Lazar Krstic. He said it. About 600m euros have been spent for this, and the savings from wage cuts and pensions are 350m to 370m euros. Here's how we could not cut wages and pensions. You say you'll fire 100,000 people in the public sector. All right. Let's start with these last ones you hired. That's 50% already. Every hundred Serbs, Mr. Vukic, are today a consultant and every hundred Serbs are working with the public sector in Serbia. I don't know if you know that. You say doctors are tycoons, engineers, professors. You're not going to say that the decline in GDP is 1%, that the deficit is greater than it's planned. We always have different sources. That's definitely it. I know all the numbers will be different... Please calm Mr. Babic, if you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11456	The Prime Minister can't calm the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11457	You got it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11458	He can't. So you want to talk about rebalancing or talk about holding a session?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11459	I want to talk about rebalancing, but they won't give me Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11460	Just express your opinion. Express your opinion, and I'll intervene when I feel I should intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11461	If Mr. Babic lets me scream from the scene. I don't know what he's excited about. Actually, I know. So the deficit is higher, consumption is higher. There are no investments that can raise the real sector. Our budget deficit is among the largest in Europe. It is now over 2.5 billion euros. It's traditional, but this is the seventh budgetary experiment of this government, the seventh historical, bravest step of this government. You've been in power, Mr. Wolfie, for over two years. You haven't been for five months. I know you've been trying to present it lately, but you've always had the best grades in all your classes, and I think you should really be proud of that, but then tell the truth to the end. So you've been in power for over two years. The former regime was a long time ago. The former regime is your edge of Dacic. So please try to stick to the facts in that sense. The public debt in August is 22.4 billion euros, which is 71% of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, that's where you got this country. I know you'll say it's different. Depends on whether it's fiscal advice or someone else. You have two methodologies. (Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, from the post: It has nothing to do with the Fiscal Council.) I don't know why you keep interrupting me. Can't you hear the truth?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11462	Ambassador, just keep going and talk to me. You keep communicating with people around you, so it distracts you. I'm listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11463	Please give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11464	I can't give you anything back.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11465	We'll pay you back. Excise revenues are lower by 16.4 billion despite the increase in rate. It was 227.6. Rebalance 211.2. None of the tobacco. We've got some sodas coming up. Don't be nervous. You're a guest here, Mr. Vicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11466	Mr. MP, I'm going to have to warn you because you keep talking to people around you, Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11467	Warn the Prime Minister. Is it possible you can't see what's going on?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11468	If you want to spend your 20 minutes on a really inappropriate one. Take the stenogram as you address, what you've commented on, at least the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11469	Salaries in the public sector predict an increase of 45 billion more than in 2012, which is 7.6% higher. Bigger spending on goods and services is two billion. The income tax was 47.8 and the rebalancing of 43.7, a 10% reduction. A dramatic reduction in the budget revenues of local self-government on this basis. That's what it says about the huge pay cut and the layoffs. "Serbia" loan for the current liquidity of 18.4 billion dinars with guaranteed liabilities to banks of 476m euros. Longer than 300 times the income. EPS, liquidity loans, Telekom, trade capital dropped double, RTS – losses 12%. Total subsidies increased by 13 billion dinars, not selectively in each place, just pour. The average salary in the real sector is down 1%. The capitalisation of Postage Savings 4.7 billion and Danube Insurance 4.8 billion, respected citizens. You've granted insurance companies an early collection of mandatory insurance for vehicles 45%, and now we're helping them out of the budget. Why, when and what 70m euros are used for, how much they received by increasing the service, i.e. Prices? New prison capacity 4.2 billion euros. Reduced wages and pensions, for 400m euros alone, your spending on public sector employees has been higher since you came to power, gentlemen. And what do you do? You increase expenditure, you increase taxes, incomes are lower, prices are higher, from now on and wages and pensions will be less than 25,000 and that's a fact. By reducing wages and pensions, Mr. Prime Minister, spending will be reduced, tax revenues will be reduced, pension fund allocations will be reduced, production will be reduced and the Serbian economy will continue to fail, which is absolutely and only your government's responsibility. I have to say that only your value added tax is lower by 32 billion, that your income tax is lower by 4 billion and 100 million, and how did you increase your employment? Here, explain to me, I really don't understand. You say a bit of increased employment, lower income tax for citizens. You also know that a lot of things in that number are seasonal affairs, you also know that there are people in that number who have been downloaded from the National Employment Service records. They're off the record, but it doesn't mean they're hired. So tell the citizens. There's no need to underestimate what the opposition is telling you, you know. We're really trying without a fight to talk to you and without emotion and without shouting. Now, to the joy of most...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11470	As in the British Parliament, you noticed that one side detests the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11471	As many English as they are, I am the Glecton. So, at the pre-election meeting in the country hall "Pinky", Mr. Vucicou, on March 10, 2014 you said, "This is how you said - but in retirement I don't want to touch it, if we touched it, we would not only create a problem for the pensioners, but also for the state. You were absolutely right. That's what you said on March 10th, 18.9. You said -- we'll do anything and other means of curbing deficits and new economic recovery measures. I don't see those measures. Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic goes one step further, which doesn't surprise me. He says – we guarantee pension payments, but not just pension payments, but an opportunity to increase those pensions, Nebojsa Stefanovic said on 14.2.2014. This is even better, here the Honorable Minister Gasic – SNS is guaranteed that pensions in Serbia will not be reduced, you said in Prokuplje 27.2.2014. There's more. Mr. Rasim Ljajic, 26.2.2014, says – do not listen and do not trust everyone who proposes to reduce pensions, because they certainly do not think well of you, says Minister Ljajic about his own coalition and government and you, Mr. Vukic, etc. This is interesting, Mr. Attending Milan Krkobic, the president of the PUPS, says on March 2, 2014 – there is no reduction or freezing, it is the Holy Scriptures for pensioners of Serbia. Someone's stepped on the Bible, gentlemen. I have to say it. I can't read this. Please, Mr. Vukic, without wanting to make our political controversy here in any way, do you really believe that this reduction in wages and pensions in this area will result in any kind of prosperity, any increase in purchasing power, any production, any economic stability? I'm really asking you if you believe that these pensioners will not sue this country, perhaps, both Strasbourg and the Constitutional Court, and that someone will have to return what you are now reducing pensions, let the authorities after you? Do you really think that no one in Serbia sees that you return in many ways to this country's 1990s? I will now tell you at the end of my presentation and ask you, with full awareness and responsibility, Mr. Vukic, the citizens of Serbia are increasingly dissatisfied with your work. Someone has to tell you that. I know all they say is commendation. Please now, while you are strongest, while you have a chance to change something in this country, please leave the prime minister's post immediately, please, as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11472	The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11473	What's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11474	I don't think laughter is forbidden.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11475	I think the situation in Serbia is so sad...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11476	Umberto Eko said laughter is the most dangerous weapon. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11477	You're absolutely right, extremely dangerous. You violated article 106, citing a situation in which the prime minister laughs at a speaker who speaks to us several times. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: I never smiled once. You've laughed a few times. There's a video. And now they get it, and you say -- it's a situation like that in the British Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11478	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11479	You know, if you were the speaker of the British Parliament, we would be lords. This situation is inappropriate for the Serbian parliament according to our Rules of Procedure. According to our Rules of Procedure, such things are forbidden and you should prevent it, not stimulate the part of the MPs who came here to support the epic speeches of Serbian Prime Minister Fidel Castro, who holds lectures in his manner...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11480	So, to warn you now, that's what you're looking for?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11481	For what?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11482	What you're talking about. You don't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure anymore, you want to give an evaluation of other people's speeches.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11483	No, I'm just talking about that no one from the opposition has thrown on speeches that lasted thirty minutes, and no one has told you anything, and you're letting me now, in these two minutes, I can't explain what people are getting, I guess in a desire to court the prime minister, because whoever throws it on the other side might have a better position tomorrow at some meeting of the main board or the central government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11484	I thank the MP, two minutes, I understand all of you, I really thank you. I want you to vote on this. Yes, of course, but it means you don't need an explanation. You gave the grade, you don't want to hear the explanation, you want to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So you ruled without the possibility of me even trying to defend myself from anything, though. The word is made by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11485	I just want to say one thing for the citizens of Serbia. At just one moment I reacted when Mr. Stefanovic started threatening, when you said – I will return it to you and I will not return the word when Mr. Stefanovic said – we will return it to you. So that was the only line I responded to, I didn't react to any more. Maybe I was smiling at the start of his speech. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: yes.) I'll take it, but please don't throw it rudely, because you've been doing it all along, and I accept your suggestion. It's possible that I was smiling at the beginning, after, when I listened to nonsense and false, I came to cry, to be honest. I have to admit, I'm surprised by the lack of responsibility, the lack of responsibility, I don't know, I don't want to say anything. It's so irresponsible, it's so irresponsible, it has nothing to do with the truth and the reality that I don't know what else to say. You've switched, you've made some kind of political speech, you've become a personal biographer of many of us, which I congratulate you on, but what's the point -- you talking about some kind of Super Hiku, you resent someone who tells you something about "ebola" metaphorically. It wasn't me. It was someone else. You do it every day, you do nothing else, you do nothing else, and then with a crying voice and tone you try to convince all of Serbia that as you speak the ugliest words about your political opponents, you are very nice and you are a great victim, and everyone else is villains and criminals. While you're talking about destructive politics here, without a positive outcome, you analyzed my personality. The Messiah and the Messiah. Well, I didn't say today that I was Messie, on the contrary, talking about something else, but maybe it was hard or it wasn't easy to understand what I was talking about. It never occurred to me to accept any Messianic role. Unfortunately, we have done much more than seven things that are for the first time in modern Serbian political history. Not one, not seven, there were 10, 20. I'm surprised I only said that seven times and I'm proud of it. You say: You would like to live in such a Serbia. Don't worry, you'll live in such a Serbia. We will make this country, despite your wishes, an incomparably better place to live. Both you and your family will live incomparably better and much better than the way you left us both government and state. That's the thing I absolutely guarantee you and I'm proud of. Since you're talking about it -- I'm chasing myself, it's enough to say I'm chasing myself, but there you are, Mr. Stefanovic, right. I give myself new assignments every day, every year, every month and every week. I'm trying to make your tasks as difficult as possible, to do as much as possible and to fight as possible. That's what we're different about. I don't buy arguments in places where arguments are made, but I buy them in the state in official places and I provide precise and accurate data. You're saying 300 million more owed Mr. Mitrovica. You didn't understand, Mr. Mitrovic paid 150 million more, and nothing else was in debt. He's gonna pay another 300 million, he's got to pay for it this year, and he's gonna pay 50% more than he paid you most, and he didn't get any new TV, but he's got the same old TV you legalized in 2001 and 2002, to remind you. By the way, you gave national frequencies everything, not us, to RTS and Pink TV and Happy TV and B92 and First TV. You, not us. We haven't changed any of that. All of you. You bought them and sold them through your agencies and everything. So much for pink glasses. I'm wearing regular glasses, to tell you the truth. These were given to me by Dr Stojanovic, and I bought those before at the Chinese market, to tell you the truth, but I've never seen pink glasses. As far as everything is good in the Serbian economy, don't make it up. You left a disaster in the Serbian economy. You left such a disaster that we've been trying to build a foundation in the air all along, because there's no foundation, there's no country on which to stand, what you left of Serbia. No one has ever said that things in Serbia are great and don't make it up. None of these MPs on the right or in front of me have said it in Serbia. It's hard to live in Serbia. In Serbia, many people barely end up with the end. It's not you, it's not me, but a lot of people are. Now, these many people who patch up the ending, it's not my fault, I'm the Prime Minister for five months, and you've been in power for 14 years, because Bojan Pajtic is 11 years prime minister, and he's head of the parliamentary group for three years. In those 14 years, your score is minus, not zero, but minus, without any reform, with nothing. For fourteen years, you've been in power, and you don't give authority at any cost, because you're only interested in the chair. If I had 6%, I wouldn't be allowed to come out of your sight, and you don't give the election, defend the chair like you were born in it, and you're not ashamed to lecture anyone about it. You say: "Merkel and Putin can say what they will." Why doesn't your president tell Zigmar Gabriel it's a bad labour law? What does he say? That Putin's not right. See, the Wolf connects with Putin? You see, I have no problem saying, yes, I have good relations with Vladimir Putin, yes, I have good relations with Angela Merkel because I'm not lying. What are you going to do, talk about how it's our fault to connect with Russia? Why don't you tell the people here? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: What are you telling the lie now? ) I am telling the absolute truth and I will bring you evidence, all the MPs to see, and Zigmar Gabriel will come to Serbia to hear what the party president is saying on November 17th. Don't throw it away, Mr. Stefanovic. I know your rudeness stems from your anxiety, I know it. As I've already told you, education isn't even taught at school. I don't know what you were like at school, but you should have brought it from home, not from school. As for other things, you're talking about rising prices, so we have a problem with our prices not growing. We have a problem with our prices not growing. You have no idea what economic problems are. You don't know any of that. You're saying things that have nothing to do with the truth, just to say something. You say something back in nature. I didn't understand, what brings back in nature anyone? I didn't understand those terms. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I will explain. As long as you don't throw it away. As far as the number of employees is concerned, you now have a problem with people being removed from the National Employment Service. Is that what's bothering you? A year ago, you said it was the most important thing, and now it bothers you. Now it's no good, now it's not good. You're saying someone said doctors and engineers are tycoons. What are you making up? No one's ever said that. You're talking about who's as powerful as you are in power. We have been in power as Deputy Prime Minister until the election of less than a year and a half and now five and a half months, soon six months as Prime Minister, and your party's president is the Prime Minister of Vojvodina for ten and a half years. In those ten and a half years, the number of unemployed in Vojvodina has increased, in Vojvodina, which has two million and not a hundred thousand people, the number of unemployed has increased by 200,000 people. I'm just asking you to tell me another result, and not at the time of government at the republical level of some other political party, but precisely the Democratic Party. I didn't understand. You're saying we raised 7.6%. Are you accusing us or praising us? Is it our fault now that we're raising our salaries or reducing our salaries? Just tell me what we're guilty of, and I'll explain, don't worry. So there's a April and October level regular indexation, and that's what happened until we broke up with that practice. What was planned in the budget, that was so much, but we cut the budget by 3% of those receipts, to let you know. It's all in the budget and you could read it all, but you had to read it carefully, spend a little less time with those who have politics – I hate, so I exist and you read a little bit more. If you'd read a little bit more, you'd have got more precise and more accurate numbers. Speak of the tycoons, and say, "Call them, they will do whatever you want." I'm sure. The difference between me and you is that I don't call them, which I don't need for anything and what I won't take from them, unlike you, who took them millions and gave them hundreds of millions of euros. Now look at what the DS proposal is to get out of the crisis, because this is what citizens need to hear. I'm reading this from today's press conference. Pajtic again didn't do anything in Vojvodina, came back to Belgrade to salt his mind, to know the people of Vojvodina that he had neglected his work obligations today. So he came here to teach us a lesson and to tell us -- listen to what the plan is to get out of the crisis, to charge the tycoon 400m euros, to abolish "Er Serbia" and abolish "Dunav Insurance". I am now wondering – wait, is that what you are saying that allowed them to take about two billion euros of credits that are now all NPLs, i.e. Non-performing loans, or those we can't get back. That's what you delivered them all, and you gave them all of it. What tycoon is ours? Miroslav Bogicevic, the man you created, made? Miroslav Miskovic? The one who haunts me in every place through all his media in every way possible, saying that I arrested him? Are you talking about him? What are you talking about? The difference is, Mr. Stefanovic, it's true, if I called them, they'd all come. I'm not calling them, I'm not calling anyone. I respect each of them, it's okay, you do your job while it's in accordance with the law, and if it's not in accordance with the law, unlike your period, you'll answer to the law, and that's a huge difference. I'm very pleased with the fact that this difference exists. You're saying, if you can't throw it away, I'm very patient and patient and I'll answer everything, I understand your message and we'll get it back to you, I understand everything you said, but I can't explain how scared I am of your threat and you can't even understand how scared I am. As for the attack on Mr. Krkobibic and many others about raising pensions, you are to be the protectors of the pensioners? You're the ones who cut pensions, you're the ones who cut salaries, you're the ones who cut jobs, you're the ones who cut out our kids' future, and you're the ones who created the crisis, but don't worry, we'll get you out of the crisis you brought us into, get you out of it. Don't doubt it at all. As far as I'm concerned, I'm certainly responsible for what happened in five months, and I'm sure someone in Serbia will believe you, not you for 14 years. You still rule in Vojvodina. You're only 14 years old, so it takes 44 years to get results this catastrophic. You're saying who broke the Bible? It's my fault, I take responsibility, don't touch Krkobic, don't touch anyone else. I, because I thought there were other ways, because I believed there was another option and we were able to fight again, not to touch 61% of the pensioners, and if you count on this minimum, it comes to over 70% of the pensioners. It's my fault. You want me to tell you why? Because unlike you, I don't want to cry and complain about my destiny, but I want to do something and change in this country. Because I want to turn the track around, because I want to do something that the whole world will understand and greet. Because we want to show unequivocally that Serbia and how Serbia can go in a different direction and in a different way. Because I want to show that we can also cope with the fiscal deficit, that we can make growth and that this growth is sustainable and that this deficit is sustainable and that our budget is sustainable and that our revenues are sustainable. You say, on the one hand, we hired 50,000 people, and you say, you don't charge taxes on citizen income. Mr. Stefanovic, don't be mad at me, there's something you need to learn, or we're guilty of one thing or we're guilty of another. The fact that the income tax falls on citizens means that we also control employment. That's what someone should have trained you or taught you. So, I'm really not able to do it, and that will tell you every economist from your parliamentary group, every economist from your own party yesterday and anyone who sits here and is well-intentioned to you. You have to understand, it's not a stream of words of argument, but you have to know basic economic things. I'm sorry you don't know them. You're talking about the '90s, that's what you say on the way, you don't know what you're going to do with yourself, just like that? By the way, there are far fewer murders, thefts, robberies, than there were in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2008, and I don't know if they were in the '90s, but there's much less going on today. By the way, solved cases have more than ever been homicides and thefts and robbery thefts and all the most serious crimes. I don't know what that reminds you, except personal hatred and trying to unite someone, to something that doesn't exist, to something that absolutely doesn't exist. Maybe that's what you're going to say to us everywhere and that's what you're going to do with the Russians? We did. We are on our way to the EU, but we will not impose sanctions on Russia and that is why we are guilty. Great, you say it that way, and don't make up floscules that don't mean anything to anyone. As for people's dissatisfaction with my work, I expected it. I'm just expecting it. I don't remember anyone facing such hatred as I do, which you show in every place, which you don't hesitate and when someone supports those who out of pure peace beat up my brother, which never happened, when someone backs those who shout out the ugliest passwords, so what would be wrong with something else? When someone doesn't hesitate to say it, we'll return to you, and what would you rather do something bigger to do? What do you think I should be the most popular? By the way, I'm only nine times more popular than your president, but that's not very important, counting on what I got last night. But I'll probably be nine times less popular, but it won't change my attitude towards the measures we bring and what we do. I didn't notice your popularity was up. As for your moms, if they hadn't called you, I know your moms didn't call you, I've been called by my moms. They called me to tell me what was bad and what was good. What would they call you? They don't expect much, and they don't expect anything at all. That I absolutely believe they didn't call you. As for my departure, my resignations and getting out of this place, unlike you, Mr. Stefanovic, that's another big difference between you and me. I'm just a prime minister for five months, and in those five months we've passed more important laws than in the last five, six and seven years, in just five months. I don't think I'm staying in power without the support of the people. You've shown that it's only important for you to stay in power and when you get 6%, in the elections, not in the polls. It's only important that you preserve the naked power of your privilege. How come you didn't mention it in this magnificent healing program with "Dunav Insurance", how come you didn't mention "Development Bank" and the Vojvodina Development Fund? How come many other things you didn't mention? But to stay in power and be in power, that's all that matters to you. I promise you, Mr. Stefanovic, that I will seriously consider your proposal, very seriously, but don't worry about one thing. I don't think I'm getting away from you or running away from you, because I've worked so much better than you, more and more uncomparably, more responsibly, and whatever happens to me, no matter what happens to me, I will stay in this country, I will never leave it, and I will fight those who have destroyed this country, destroyed it, and you are here, for God's sake, at the top. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11486	According to Article 104(2), due to personal address and mention of the name and party, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11487	Mr. Wolf, the last time was a similar situation. First of all, I notice that I really have to give you credit for having a terrible power, a very good power of self-control. But somehow this old radical face always comes out of you because no one told you that you have no idea, that you are criminals, that you hate Serbia, that "Super Hick" is the same thing as "ebola", that's what you say about these 50,000 dead, because the comic hero didn't kill anyone, and Ebola did. You know, that's not very convenient, Mr. Wolfie. I know you agree, you won't admit it, as I know you know we haven't been in power in 14 years, but if we were 14, okay, then you're Mr. Wolfie, eight years old. Here, you're eight, we're 14, so let the people see. As long as it's true that you're eight, it's so true that we're 14. By the way, I agree with you that you shouldn't be afraid of me and it really doesn't need to be. You should be afraid of those who applaud you now. You'll be the first to wait for you on the curve, when you roll down, since you, showing through this rebalancing, see it at every step, absolutely at every step. You can't justify these measures against wages and pensions, you're reducing them, you can't justify it, you're only talking about what Pajtic did, what DS did, you don't have an answer, Mr. Wolf. I'm asking you about the public sector, you're twisting, you're skilled at it. You've had a decade and a half to practice on us, Mr. Wolfie, but take my advice and please leave this place as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11488	Thank you. The word has Alexander Vucic, a replica. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Two minutes. He knows the Prime Minister that it's two minutes and 15 seconds you've spoken to him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11489	Don't worry, Mrs. Gojkovic, I'll speak briefly. I didn't ask them to speak shorter or not to speak, I'm not afraid of their words, I'm afraid of serious arguments, not their words, because in their words there's never any arguments. As far as the public sector is concerned, it made it clear to you that we have 27 more employees than it was before, and that's exactly what you got. You're the ones who increased the public sector. Nanad, save me the data for 2011 and 2010. You will receive accurate data within 20 minutes. So, exactly as I promised you for employment, you'll get exactly when they were employed. As for those who are going to speak against me and work against me, I know one thing, Mr. Stefanovic, I'm not even a little skilled, I'm not even a little good, although you remember a year ago and before the election campaign, I said that I know what's going to be, I know better, because I know you, because I know many others, I know all of us, I know Serbia, I know it well, and so I didn't accidentally say it all since the First Rise of the 1804th year, so to this day how they all ended and passed, but what I want to distinguish about is your "you'll get back to us", I just want to tell you... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Don't do this. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11490	It's not worth it. (Dear Sutanovac, from the city: the British Parliament. () Yes, but don't put the British Parliament on the table again, to blame the MPs of other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11491	You know, courtesy is a fundamental virtue with which someone should enter parliament or government, and as far as I'm concerned whether or not I will, believe me, Mr. Stefanovic, as soon as I hear a better plan, and not that the plan is like this, I'm ashamed to say the word I wanted to say, so terrible, so pathetic and as foolish as you were at the press conference today. So the second I'm going to resign like that, and don't worry, look what all the economists in the country are going to tell you, you won't find any of them to keep it quiet. Just one more word, I won't guard the government with 20% or 26%, and I'm ashamed of those who aren't here today, and they keep power at all costs with their 6%, and that's what it says about us and you and that's a big difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11492	The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11493	Thank you, Madam President. I ask you, in accordance with Article 116, to meet Mr. Prime Minister with the provisions of Rule 106 of this Rules of Procedure and ask him to behave himself when speaking in the Serbian Parliament, to tell him that we are not used to using words like "criminals, villains", to tell someone to lie, to accuse him of not having the decency to bring home. The prime minister may be surprised that the "silence there" approach does not go exactly in every place, in the way it passes in the government, but I ask you to ask him to stop insulting the MPs, because if we adopt it as the principle of communication in the Assembly, I don't think he'll take us anywhere, and that's not the direction we want this debate to go today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11494	I thank you for your letters. I've read both article 116 and 104... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Article 106) And I realized that you only have a suggestion about hurting the Rules of Procedure to talk to the prime minister after the session, so I really don't see what was problematic about addressing the prime minister to any MP, as I would then have to react to the words spoken in the opposite direction. Since I don't want to make something out of this session that Serbian citizens don't expect, but to talk about budget rebalancing, I won't react. If you wish, we will vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure very gladly and we will hear what the MPs think about it. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. ) The word is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11495	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to my presentation, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to leave something for the representatives of the former regime when he is having a discussion with the MPs. I'm saying that because it's very hard to sit here quietly and listen to the false, here, I'll use the mildest possible expression. It is very difficult to remain calm when a fellow member of the people is plowing here whether the unemployment rate was 26.5% in 2012 and whether it is 21% now and does not see its responsibility while voting for the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic and DS, why 26% of unemployment was then. He doesn't see his responsibility for that unemployment rate, he doesn't see that those others who came to power after him, if they didn't cut it down, didn't increase it like the ones he supported, and on the contrary, they cut it down. It is very rude to mention that the budget rebalance in October is something that is not working, forgetting that it voted for budget rebalancing in 2010 and 2011, when the money was spent, so it had to be passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law, so that someone would not go to jail. Now we in SNS have much to endure, but there's only one thing we can't do, we don't take credit for other people's merits, and we don't give our credit. Don't give us any credit for 26% of the unemployed, that's yours. You're wearing that cross. Don't tell us about the budget deficit and 103 billion dinars of interest payments to domestic and foreign creditors, let's see how much yours is, how much of ours, then we can talk seriously about budget rebalancing, then we can talk seriously about the measures that the government is planning. As long as you representatives of the former regime don't accept it, any controversy with you is impossible. That's my attitude. We can talk and I'm ready and I'm ready to talk about whether this government is incompetent, but I'm absolutely sure, God forbid it was your government during the elemental disasters, we'd be drowning like mice here in Serbia. Probably this road infrastructure that was destroyed would be even more devastating because someone would have to negotiate with who, who and what to share. Don't talk about the corridors you made. Let's measure it. How was the bridge built on Beška? Let's see how suddenly that one price gets hit, the other one turns out, the third one's wanted, we can talk about it all. Then let's talk about these measures. Let's talk budget rebalancing. Why is the rebalance even being brought in? Because there's no perfect budget in the world. Even when you vote him, he's already changed. It's something natural. He mentions someone that the income side is smaller. I agree, but let's see how you handled it in your time -- inflation. Inflation, you ironed the budget account. Does anyone know what inflation is? Does anyone know how much inflation destroys capital in the economy or have you forgotten? Now it bothers that inflation is low. That's the problem. There's an MP here who stands up and says you're wasting your foreign reserve like you've earned it. What, he earned them? In four years you spent four and a half billion foreign exchange reserves and a course from 80 to 119-120. You spent four and a half billion euros in foreign exchange reserves on a course you didn't defend. Evidence. We can talk about it. Tax collection control? The prime minister has provided some data here, but I would like to know how to get the tax inspector into tax control, determines the actual state of affairs, make a proposal for a record, refer the subject of tax control to the proposal for a report, write an objection that has not been resolved for four, five and six years. It was done by the tax administration while the Democratic Party was in power. It's facts and then we ask the question, where do you get so much tax charge? Because the tax executives you've been setting up have been negotiating with someone, and now we're going to make a definition of some of them. Since the tax is a state item and a duty of every citizen, we can discuss who makes tax evasion or doesn't pay taxes, but still ask one question, and what is the one that comes past you while you walk down the street and puts your hand in your pocket and pulls out your wallet? Is that a thief? What's the difference between taxes and budgets and your wallet? It doesn't exist. Well, then call the tycoon real names - thieves. We can go back to pensioners and profits in the public sector. None of you here, at least not seriously, at least in terms of economic logic, has offered a solution to how we get out of this crisis. I just remember that in this Assembly, a spear was broken around it many times who will speak from the Republic of Serbia's budget by 2012, which the target group in the electoral body will reward and buy for the next election. That's what happened. How did that manifest? By raising loans to get as much employment as possible in the public administration, giving them the best they can pay, so that they can vote as much for the former regime as possible. The same thing was done with various target groups. When someone says seven and a half billion, I would like to get up and say how many debts in 2012, which the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic made, out of those seven and a half billion, because you count them as well. Three billion right. Furthermore, how much was it to cover "Agrobank" and "Vojvodine Development Bank" from the budget of the Republic of Serbia? A billion euros. We've reached four. How much interest on those four billion just in the last two years? About a billion. We're up to five. Five billion, out of the seven you mention, are your merits and your billions that you have burdened the citizens of Serbia. Now a program needs to be built on that. We can choose -- to listen to the president of the DS, but he doesn't believe what he's saying is possible, to declare these laws that aren't popular, but it's necessary and the third option is to print the money, I just think you'll have to find another government and another governor to do it. That's not going to happen in Serbia anymore. Who will you convince to come to Serbia to create jobs for you if he knows that in a year or two you will start printing money? You don't want anyone. You can't bring anyone seriously into Serbia anymore. The only way you can count on serious investment is if you send a message that there are state rights in the first place, without tycoon, in which the legal system works, a state that has a program to stabilise its public finances and thus start with reforms in the economy. You can roll your eyes as much as you like, because I was present when you were in this Assembly, only in another room, promised to all of us that we would be members of the EU in 2010, at the latest in 2012. The Serbian Progressive Party managed to initiate the procedure in 2013. So much for your promises and so much for your reforms. These two laws, very unpopular, are something that has been extorted, for which neither this government nor this assembly majority are guilty, but we have choices, or we have to start reforms, to provide the future for our children, or to put our heads in the sand, wait, when no one else will give us credit and start printing money. I think only a coward can accept a head in the sand and print money. Those a little braver are opting for difficult reforms, painful reforms, but which offer the future. That is why the SNS parliamentary group will support these two budget rebalancing laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11496	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Since we no longer have elected heads of parliament or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a joint principled search. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Stefanovic, you have no right to a replica. Mr. Arsic never mentioned you personally or your party at any time. He was talking about the former regime. I know that's where you two recognized each other, but... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the city: He looked at me significantly. What did he say? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: He said things. I don't think you have a chance to replicate. You won't say anything new. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11497	Thank you. I would agree with my colleague, Veroljub Arsic, who was just talking about the fact that, when it comes to budget rebalancing, it is the first lesson in economics, which is the opportunity cost. So every man as a buyer, every company on the market always has the right to choice and choice, and in that choice, it has to sacrifice something. Serbia is in such a position that I will also talk about the policies which Serbia, of course, the prime minister and the government, wants to meet, to implement in the next period, strategically, of course, for several years, something must be sacrificed to make us feel better in a few years. Speaking of public policies and when we comment on them, I must primarily look back on Serbia's foreign political position and what the prime minister is doing together with all government members over the past few months. There is something that is good to happen in the coming days, it is the day of investment for Serbia in London, where the prime minister, together with Sir Paul Gage and Winston Cable, who is the British government's minister of business, will present the capacities and promote Serbia and its resources in the UK. I must say that Serbia has not had a better international position, I am sure, in the past 24 years. It says that in just a few days, the prime minister himself had a telephone conversation on two occasions with Joseph Bideen, the President of the United States, that the president of the Russian Federation, Mr Vladimir Putin, had come to our country, that there were also telephone talks with the Prime Minister of France, Mr Manuel Vals, and that is enough to say that both with the president of the state what Serbia's international position is and what we are in terms of potential investment, but also with co-operation on political and any other plan. Why am I talking about the foreign-political position? I am saying that wherever I have been as a MP to go abroad for the past two years, the witness about it, and Mr Babic, in many places we have been, from the State Department, Congress, the European Parliament, is one thing that defines and just implies what today's politics and today's government is doing, and that is to keep the word here, that what you promise is done. It is a sufficient impulse, to be the main aspect of new investment and to attract new investments in our country. What I also have to comment on and what I have to say as a socialist, and that's what Prime Minister cancer is at the very beginning, it's that if we don't make a big enough cake, if GDP isn't big enough, there's no possibility of redistribution either. Everything else is demagogy and everything else is what's called pushing problems under the carpet. If we don't make enough GDP, if we don't make it and we're not competitive, we don't become a nation and the exporting state, and if we don't end up with that policy that was implemented in the '60s, in the '70s, the Asian tigers, South Korea, Singapore, and that's exporting, exporting or dying, but literally in that sense, we can't go out economically on the green branch. That is why I can fully support this policy, for the very reason that it is real, which in two, three years with the resources that Serbia has, the capacities and potentials, are they natural, whether they are material or human, we can go out, as economists would say, to that green branch. As for the remarks, I will remind you that the Republicans for 10, 12 years were against the "its deal" when Franklin Delano Roosevelt defined it. The American nation and the U.S. and today are picking up the fruits of it. I can compare this with "it's a deal", something that's being prepared in Serbia, which is investments, that's reforms, that's solving the company's restructuring problem, that's transfers to the public sector, public enterprises, and that's the second phase that awaits us, if we're just doing this successfully, and that stage is a potential profit settlement, funds that will manage property and land in our country, transfer transfers as a PIO Fund from budget to real resources. Through these land funds, we have assets that amount to tens of thousands of acres of land alone. See in this context how much "Belgrade on Water" will be worth to us as a project which, of course, the Republic of Serbia will manage in one large percentage and domain. I've also got to get one World Bank analysis, so that we don't keep talking about a lack of investment. Yeah, we need them, especially foreign investments, but I think there's a big percentage of them. What's most important, in the last three years they've been serious, the biggest companies in the world are investing in us. Etihad, the seventh airline in the world, Del Amar, which has more than 15 major countries in the world of huge investment, which is building with the Republic of Serbia "Belgrade on Water", "Tenis" Germany that will come to invest in agriculture. Abu Dhabi's development fund, which granted us a ten-year loan with 2% interest, and it approved its brother in Dubai, in the same state with 1.5%. We have to use that potential, but in order to use it, we have to do fiscal consolidation. We need to sign an agreement with the IMF in order to raise our country's ratings and so that those investors we want to bring, who are welcome in Serbia and for whom we fight daily, the entire government and, of course, all colleagues in parliament, can provide the ambience that is needed for them to come. I'll remind you of one more thing. The World Bank's analysis suggests that the productivity of our workforce is 40%, and I say that's one of the main reasons why we don't currently have a level of competitiveness, even at regional level, so that we can become a country that exports and a country that is export-oriented at full capacity. I would appeal here and I think there's a lot of room to work with foreign companies, like Del Amar, which brings when it invests both new technologies and engineering and everything that involves the creation of a company, an organization that learns, thus and knowledge society, to connect with such companies, to bring them in, to bring in scientific institutes that will be able to and will help us create democratic technologies and to base our competitiveness on creative economy. What is also a big problem, Minister Vujovic spoke about it last night at the Committee on Finance, 790,000 public sector employees, 330,000 were employed in some aspect of the grey economy and the grey labour market. Under urgent introduction, management in accordance with the modern principles of human resources management, which implies management performance, means an impact assessment and the creation of additional value in the public sector, such as in the private sector. As you said well, several colleagues mentioned Martin Luther, promoting ethics, especially in the public sector, and promoting profits for what is done, and rewarding for what is additionally achieved for their company. I am convinced, unlike other colleagues, that Serbia can do this and that it has enough human capacities if, and I don't think that we are missing those leaders who will be working 20 hours for Serbia in the next period, who are about to sacrifice themselves for Serbia in the next period, so that in two, three, four years we can stand in line for countries that can develop dynamically. I'm sure we can do that. We have also shown this through the creation of a quality regulatory framework. There's Minister Vulin. We're working together on a work-legislative codification project, 15 laws. He insisted that the social entrepreneurship law be passed very recently and that the problem of those who, when the problem of the restructuring company is resolved, who cannot survive on the market, who do not find strategic partners, will try to find a solution through the social entrepreneurship process through that third sector that those who cannot manage the market immediately, this is a temporary possibility and that it is a transitional aspect of their success and opportunity to earn money. We need through these aspects to create a serious market economy based on entrepreneurship, to create an entrepreneurial spirit, but only by example, through self-burning, through work, through great diligence, and it is absolutely not demagogy. If we don't work here for 20 hours, if the prime minister doesn't work for 20 hours, what can we expect from people in the public sector? And that's what I can fully support and the SDPS will certainly vote for this rebalancing day and vote for every reform aspect and move this government will make for one single reason, which is that the citizens of this country live better, but on realistic grounds, on real principles in line with their working achievements. Of course they could do that, they're gonna have to get more education, and our people are gonna have to get extra skills. I'll remind you that in the U.S., one research was done, 80% of the competitiveness of the workforce comes right out of upgrades, out of skills, not out of formal education. I am sure that we will implement the philosophy of lifelong learning in public, help it to be upgraded in the private sector, and that in two, three years we will be in line for countries that can be countries of knowledge and that can develop very dynamically and well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11498	I thank Professor Marinkovic. The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic has the word, and let the People's MP Marijan Rističević be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11499	Serbia again has a chance to watch the latest episode of a series called - the fairy tale of Alexander Vukic and that's what...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11500	Mr. Zivkovic, I ask that your exposure be appropriate to this high house.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11501	... the result of election results which are totally legal and legitimate. Of course, fairy tales are generally known for not having a lot of facts, i.e. the moss is made up and with the moss the facts in them cannot be called facts. Whether they're fairy tales of some serious fairy-tale writers or some unserious ones, it doesn't matter. What's the opposite of fairy tales? That's the facts. The fact is that we have a rebalancing that will define the largest budget deficit in modern Serbian history, which is 225 billion dinars or you 300 per Fiscal Council. It's no reduction, unlike some previous years that have been wasteful, I totally agree. But if we look at the deficit chart in 2003, when it was 750m euros, in 2012, when it was a billion and 50 million and this year when it was a billion and 88m, respectively, 880m euros, then it is clear that the deficit is the largest. Less income from almost all sources, especially those most expected, and this is from VAT, an increased VAT rate that is lower. The income here is dramatically reduced. It's completely incorrect that there's an increase in excise tax revenues on tobacco. On the contrary, there is a huge reduction and there is little increase in excise duties for oil derivatives, i.e. Introducing that marker and that's a pretty good thing. What's predicted as a solution is that pensions and pensions are reduced, pensions that are acquired right and I don't want to talk about it again. Some have already said that before me and there will certainly be a lot of lawsuits, but the explanation given by the finance minister is disastrous, that pensioners with the same level of pensions as salaries should be taken more because those who do, which are not pensioners, buy suits for work. It's pointless, really, unless it's been directed to cops who haven't gotten new uniforms in the last 12 or 13 years. Pensions can't be reduced in any way. That's unconstitutional. The salaries in the public sector were 910m euros in 2003, 2012 -- nearly two billion euros, and this year there are two billion and 250m euros, so that is a dramatic increase. This game about whether employment is increased or not is a fraud. Of course there's been a decrease in the number of unemployed. According to the National Bank of Serbia, there are data from June, which I have, 769 thousand people, but the number of employees has not increased. It means there's no employment here but that it's a game of statistics. So these are the consequences of this government's work and there's nothing to talk about. The tycoons who started paying back their tax debts, why aren't they blocked? How can they work if they owe a couple hundred million? Every store is blocked, completely justified, when it's due. How can that not apply to big tycoons? There's talk of a metaphor with the Titanic, and I think it's a very bad metaphor. It is true that neither this government nor some of them have taken over a new ship in the original port. But, Titanic, if that's Serbia, it's gone down and I'm afraid that's where the metaphor is right and that Serbia is going to sink with this government. Finally, the story of courage, that someone might not run away from the difficult solutions. Whoever's brave doesn't run away from dialogue, doesn't run away from public debates, doesn't shut down TV stations and shut down any TV shows. Those who are brave, and speak for themselves that they are brave, hardly truly are. There is an expression for such people that they boast and that they are boasters, and my Nishli say that they are smoking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11502	National MP Marijan Rističević. You're the speaker after Zivkovic. Do you want a word or a Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure after the first sentence. So, I think they're hurt. In 106 and 107, a colleague of Zivkovic roughly misused his right to speak by talking about something that was not on the agenda. Of course, fairy tales aren't on the agenda. All the time, he was trying to get away from the topic successfully, trying to offend the ministers and the Prime Minister. It didn't work out, of course, because in order to offend someone, you'd have to be better for a shade than he is or a little worse than he is, and being a lot worse than he is isn't enough for you to insult someone. I understand that we should allow the opposition some space, but I think for one knight of wine, we've allowed too much freedom, Mr. Zivkovic. He was talking about fairy tales here. He was talking about tycoons here, and when I get a chance to prove that he and you have something to do with the tycoons, I'll show it to the documents. Therefore, he should not object to anyone and thus offended the dignity of the National Assembly since he had ties to the tycoons, and he transfers it to others. On the side of the fairy tale spoken of by Mr. Zivkovic, I will answer it about like this – that while he ruled from his government until now only his government was worse. Thanks to his reign over others, he now has the unbearable authority of another over him and I think that thanks to the time he was a federal minister, thanks to his being prime minister that he really lives like a fairy tale, but that's why the people live like a bass player. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11504	Thank you. I think it's an art. 106th and 107th. Igor Becic did not hurt, because you were talking about the contents of Zoran Zivkovic's speech, and in the work I led, I really do not bear responsibility for the rule of the former speaker. So I don't think I hurt my ankle either. 106th and 107th. If you want us to vote? The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11505	I will try, ladies and gentlemen, to be rational and to respond to some of Mr. Zivkovic's remarks and to something Mr. Marinkovic spoke of. First, I owe you information, because they said the total public debt was 71% RS, 71% of GDP, of course it wasn't true. It might be when we take charge to pay off everything for next year, but right now 66.8% is true, so they've been back on the false data, and unfortunately, I have to disappoint them with it. Probably not much of a problem for them. I wasn't talking about any fairy tales, and every piece of information you've given is absolutely untrue. Every piece of information you've given has nothing to do with reality, and it has nothing to do with anything. You even said at one point that the rebalances were reduced deficits. Never with any rebalancing since 2005 has the deficit been reduced to today, none since 2005. Since 2000, we've only had one case like this. As much as the gentleman who answered understands the matter he's talking about. I have exactly all the data, so I can read it to you -- with the total budget deficit in 2007, what I have data, minus 13.676,280,000, 2008 minus 14.828,000,000, 2009 minus 49,000,000, and each time it increased, 107, 120, 124, 161 etc. So, all I'm saying is that it's something common and that's exactly why we're doing this. The deficit is increasing precisely because of the level of public debt, i.e. because of the fiscal deficit that we have and which we have to solve, that is the fundamental reason why we are doing it. I've prepared something about bankruptcy rights for the professional public. It's easy to say something against your country, and today we're paying both military pensioners and many other enormous overpower for something that I'm not sure is wrong or wrong, but it's the job of the state. They say people - they will go to Strasbourg, before our Constitutional Court for their rights acquired. There is a right to peace, I am now saying this because of some other people to understand it, there is a right to peaceful enjoyment of property and it is set out in article 1, Protocol 1, "European Convention on Human Rights", as well as in our Constitution Article 58. Practice and interpretation, however, given by the court in Strasbourg, are also important, which would otherwise, not formally, but would be reasonable to hold the Constitutional Court. When he gets a chance to decide, maybe he decides otherwise, we'll see. Analysis is much more complex, because retirement is property, but certainly not untouchable, especially in conditions when people fight for survival and when they want to pay. Why am I saying this? We do this so that we can pay our pensions, so that we can pay our salaries, because, not by our own fault, we are put into a situation where, to continue this way, at the end of 2016, we would be bankrupt. Then there is neither salary nor pension nor fulfilment of any government obligations. What constitutional court would then invite us, and what Strasbourg would invite us to do so? I'll read it to you now. (He reads the text in English. ) So, I just want to say that there are already judicial decisions in the case of Portugal, Italy, Estonia and some other countries where it has always been decided in favour of the right of the state to save public finances. The bottom line is that people need to know, that it's more important that we save public finances, to save the pensioner's right to even receive a pension, thanks to the irresponsibility of some who put us in a position not to pay our pensions. Furthermore, you have a verdict that is very important, Valkov against Bulgaria, which was also made on those grounds. I also want to tell you some good news that I know will not appear in our media, which is that only a thousand consumers currently lack electricity in Serbia. So our authorities, Elektroprivreda Srbija and Elektro Network of Serbia, have managed to overcome all difficulties and despite storm winds, have managed to bring the profession to every household, with the exception of thousands of consumers at the moment. As for your presentation, Mr. Marinkovic, I am grateful for the many interesting topics you have launched. When you mentioned learning, I talked to Simon Peres recently in Jerusalem or Tel Aviv, I really don't know where I met him, don't get angry, there was office space. He told me one thing, that in the future he would go to school by studying for six hours and working for two hours, and that those who were employed for six hours would work, and two hours to learn and that it was something new that the world would bring and that we should think about it, too, being among the first to accept that system, and all in line with the fact that we had to make progress, that we had to learn and that we had to work a lot more. I didn't understand what you said, Mr. Zivkovic, but I'm going to look back on what you are today, for the sake of the public and for the sake of many lies and attacks on my family, which I'm going to have to deny, so someone doesn't think it's true. In fact, Mr. Zivkovic said at a press conference today that I'm talking about various tycoons. I'm talking about all the tycoons, and I'm not afraid to talk about any of them. He said -- how am I not talking about my brother and his phantom firm? To cover those stories, it was an attempt at counterfeiting, about 2009. Both Boris Tadic and Miodrag Rakic apologized to him in time, but I want to tell you that he was never the owner of any similar company or anything. He's been working at a state firm for 14 years. That's what you said at the press conference today. I'm ashamed to answer that question, but I'm offering you the best answer. Mr. Zivkovic, if that's true, if my brother owns this phantom firm, otherwise you showed a copy of the I.D. which is falsified in 11 places and I can talk about it, I just want to let you know, if that's true, I will grant your wish and wish to Borko Stefanovic right away and I will not be the Prime Minister as long as Monday. And please, if that is not true, I would ask you to make a public apology to the Vukic family or that you are not engaged in this business, which I think is a very fair offer and I think it is a matter of honor, honesty, honesty and relations with our people. Of course, I haven't responded to all of this in days, weeks, months because I've been doing other important things and because I thought an honest man would never believe it because it was published by those newspapers that announced that I killed my own child, it was those newspapers and their websites that announced that I had made love to my own son, and many others, so I was amazed that such information was also spoken by the MPs. As you can see, I don't mind answering those questions. I'm sorry, for being so rude when no one reacts, and if I'm forced to be the only one in this country to respond and to say it, because everyone else needs to be protected, and I can't be protected, I'm sorry I abused this opportunity and I had to say it. So, my offer clearly stands for you, Mr. Zivkovic -- either me or you, or my brother owns that phantom firm and tycoon, or you lied, or I'm going to go, and I made a public promise to the citizens of Serbia if he did it, or to leave you or to apologize, which would be good for a decent man. Thank you very much. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Please, I've been mentioned five times. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11506	Here you go. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11507	This is the time of the "ealing", so it can be interesting. First, let me say about the matter, or the Prime Minister's finding that I was speaking incorrectly before what was possibly related to his brother. It's all data from the National Bank, the Bureau of Statistics, and that data is correct. I didn't say that rebalances reduce deficits, I said that this is the biggest deficit in history, and that's true. You started reading how the deficits grew, none of them were 225 billion. Finally, about whether or not your brother owns the company, various media have written about it. In one part of these media, you're still the man of the greatest trust today, someone to admire. I don't mind writing any media, everyone makes their own destiny, and that's not a question. I checked by the name of the company, which is probably read "asamakum", and I checked with the APR who owns the company. It says there he owns the company, Andrej Vukic, the address is Student 15, you can check it out right now, and somewhere I had a PIB number and it says in the National Bank that the company is blocked by 22 billion. If there's another Andrei Wolf, then I can apologize. But since that's where it says the birth number, it can be checked. I didn't do that. I'm just telling you what I found on the website. You can laugh all you want. Nothing's funny to me. Therefore, you have the APR, the National Bank, the owner's home number, the PIB, the company's home number – check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11508	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11509	I think the citizens of Serbia have heard everything now. My brother never owned any Asumaku, Osumaku, or any company. My brother doesn't have any company on Student or any other street. I understood that you accepted what I said. If my brother, Andrej Vukic, owns the company, I will no longer be the prime minister of Serbia, which I think is fair. I think it's only fair for you to stop being a MP if my brother isn't. I think it's very fair, because it's a question of this uninterrupted series of lies, of the most terrifying inventions I've ever done with someone I've never even met in my life. I don't know what newspaper you're talking about, do you think about the ones you've been tearing up in front of the cameras or someone else? I didn't rip up that newspaper, and I don't know who's experiencing me or who's watching me, but I've never told you anything about anyone in my family, and I haven't been making up such a terrible fabrication. I'd just like to ask you, I don't mind if you hate me, I don't mind you making the worst mistakes, but I'm asking you to leave my family alone. Please don't make it up. Here, I think you have the most honest offer possible. Go celebrate with Mr Stefanovic, since you are obviously right and you have all the evidence from the APR and everything else that my brother owns, which means I'm no longer the prime minister. Go celebrate. Otherwise, I would ask you to inform us Monday, or Tuesday, whenever you wish, if you had resigned. My brother's going to press charges against himself on Monday to determine whether he did it or not. And you, Miss Jerkov, ask your bosses what it was about, because I'm not going to explain to you what attempts at political persecution, lies and forgeries were at 11 places at the time of 2009, for which a man was called and received an apology in the tax administration, and he received an apology from both the judicial authorities and all the others, and even from the highest authorities and the political authorities. Here, I think this is a fair and fair game. It's either my fault, or I wasn't telling the truth, or you, and it's gonna show up and prove it. Such an honest relationship I think they also want to see Serbian citizens, and your data, Mr. Zivkovic, all the time and I'm saying, of course, the deficit is increasing and that is the biggest problem, and next year it would be even bigger, because our cost of maintaining wages, pensions, interest and everything else is growing every year. That was completely obvious and completely clear. It's not exactly a number, but it's quite clear, and that's why we're taking such measures. And that's why we didn't lie to our people, and that's why we weren't telling anyone fairy tales, but we were telling the truth, that we would come from a fairy tale period at a time of reality, and that we could in the best possible way to show people if we were capable of doing something for this country and could Serbia go forward or stay where you were planning on being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11510	Ambassador Zivkovic, you have no right to a replica. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: He mentioned me five times. ) You received an offer Monday to respond. You have no right to a replica, Article 104, Section 3, I've decided you don't have the right to a replica. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Only to be democratic. No problem to yell at me, we will no longer have a discussion about it. You think you're right, Monday is close and we'll discuss this subject as well. Don't throw it away, please. It's all clear, we've got it all figured out. Monday is very close. Say, Mr. Alexandra Jerkov? No, that's what's said, Miss Jerkov and nothing more offensive. [[Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I have the right to replica.]] (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: It is not only an insult to the cause of the replica. ) You will read 104 and you had no right to speak, so you can’t misread it. You haven't spoken yet. We haven't given a replica to verbal gestures yet. I'm sorry. Answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11511	Yes, I just wanted a brief comment, since Mr. Zivkovic mentioned in his presentation of the illustration that I used very mildly. So, if you take the example that I have cited, by the name and intensity of the law on the regulation of the basis for the payment of salaries or earnings and other permanent incomes from the users of public funds, it is not only about wages but also about all the additions they have – regression, transportation and more. The reduction will be applied to the total amount. Therefore, in these people who have total monthly incomes, including all these regresses, of the 5,000 will be part of it. It won't be cash, it'll be these other bonuses that relate to the actual cost of going to work. I may have chosen the illustration figuratively for my suit. Therefore, they will be affected by a reduction of 5,000 not only by cash but also by the part they received in addition. Unlike pensioners, who only get $50,000 in cash as a pension. So that's the difference. To them, both the regresses and the compensation for a warm meal will fall below the reduction. Therefore, their reduction will be greater through these other elements, so that the net effect on wages will be higher in employees than in pensioners, although the nominal reduction in pensioners is 5,800, and those who are regularly employed 5,000. Is that clear now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11512	Absolutely. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go. Get Dusan Petrovic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11513	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thought my fellow farmer would say something about the agricultural budget. However, he seems to have forgotten his profession, since he has only done it for three years. I have to say in the introduction that we are working this budget rebalance under exceptional circumstances. Given the inherited situation we found, it's a miracle we don't rebalance every month. The state we found was completely economically powerless, socially unsustainable, with social rights broadcast, without any chance of getting out of the crisis. The state was like an old car box, which had wheel and wheels, and it didn't have a motor and a gearbox, it didn't have an economy that would make money. Such a car could only go downhill and the first thing it has to do is make some savings to make a business system, get that car a motor and a gearbox, get the drive, and this country can go in some good direction. There was almost no state in this country during the summer of 2012. So it was made of the man in charge, not the man in charge. The state spent 20% more than she earned. The cost was compensated by the sale of complete social capital, and the rest was compensated by borrowing, the withdrawal of credit. Only problems are delayed for the future, and they are not solved. Unsolving these problems has made the situation more complicated. The time has come for Serbia to live well on the person in charge and not on the earner. The time has come, as the people say, to return as thou hast longed. So the time has come for us to live off what we earned. At the time we were in charge, we didn't create any economic system, no source for repaying debts that were enormous. The social rights that have been broadcast and increased had no one to pay, the loans have reached their limits, and that's why we're where we are. My dissatisfaction with the budget rebalancing is the most unsatisfactory ones whose mistakes we have been ironing over the last two years and most likely that this situation will last not only for the next two years, but the consequences of this irresponsible government will last far longer than we thought. What startled me was the fact that despite the state being in charge of this period enormously, despite the fact that the economy is in charge of enormously, that no source of debt has been created, that agriculture is completely devastated. So, I followed very carefully our import and export balances and scared me, and I think that Karadjordje and Milos Obrenović are turning in our grave, and I've been amazed that since 2011, we've been importing more pork than we export every year for 35 million dollars, and in some years and more, which means we can't even produce enough meat for our own purposes, let alone that we can take something out of domestic production. The situation continues further, given that there was no money to suddenly reverse the situation in favour of agriculture. There's been very little talk here, and I'm going to say that we on the Committee on Agriculture insisted that subsidies to peasants don't touch and they won't be touched. We allowed certain subsidies, incentives, to be reorientated, given the situation in livestock, given the historical minimum in the livestock stock, since we have an incredibly small number of cattle, an incredibly small number of pigs. We have asked that even additional funds be allocated for the purchase of 100,000 breeding names and breeding materials, so that we can produce about two million more passengers annually, and thus improve our livestock production, because by exporting corn, and we have all the conditions to deal with livestock, we lose 250 to 300m euros every 100m euros. Our slaughterhouse capacity works with 30% to 40% capacity. We have 40,000 tow units of empty, the smaller, the bigger, the more complete conditions we have to deal with livestock. However, with irresponsible policy over the past period, we have not developed full potential in livestock, and we are now paying that price. It's enough to invest a little bit of money. These premiums and subsidies should not be abolished. They are not only for the benefit of producers, they are for the benefit of consumers, they are for the benefit of processors that can be competitive for the processing industry. There is some money to be allocated to subsidies, to encourage livestock and thus to increase our social product, and only two million pigs can be increased if processed, we can increase them for a gross social product by more than 2% We need to raise livestock, we need to support vegetables in this relationship. I have to say, we have the potential to raise only 10,000 acres of plastics and I disagree with the former regime that small holdings have no perspective. Even the UN and the EU and the European Commission and the Common European Agricultural Organisation claim that small holdings are a perspective in future employment, in organic food production. To illustrate, that from one hectare in plastic production, you can make vegetables in a protected area worth 100,000 euros, and for this type of activity we need five to 10 workers, depending on the type of vegetables that is grown in the plastic. In this way, 10,000 hectares, if we raise in the next period, we can reach 1 billion euros in vegetable production. In livestock, we can increase this to 1.5 billion and certainly need to raise modern fruit plantations in the fruit industry, because every hectare of modern fruit plant can give the value of production up to 30,000 euros. You'll agree that one small land with a good orchard, with a good plastic, that middle land with 10 head of cattle and how it can make production. Here mentioned Fiat, I have nothing against Fiat, but we of one Fiat, thanks to the contracts made during the former regime, have about 400 to 500 euros and these are net wages and something if they remain one piece at a time. If we throw ourselves with the same means of production in livestock, in meat processing, we of each pig can have, processed pigs, as much as from Fiat, 400 to 500 euros, if it is exported, sold, and I think we have these potentials on the Russian market, since these relations with Russia, even politically and economically improved. We have potential, Russia imports pork for two million euros, beef for two million euros, vegetables for two million euros, fruit for two million euros, total food and agricultural products, Russia imports 40 billion euros annually, and if I said millions, I apologize. With that in mind we have Belarus and Kazakhstan, we have a market for the entire customs union. I think it is necessary to consider raising livestock, raising agricultural production, raising the processing industry, that what farmers produce, that workers process, as close as possible to the place of production, because today the issue of agriculture is not just a matter of agriculture. Today, it is also a question of production processing, energy from agricultural production, which can be partly based on agricultural production, and, on the other hand, through livestock production, produce electricity, with which we can convert these primary products into finished products, which would additionally give income to families living inside, if this processing is done as close as possible to the place of production. That's what my party is very small for, which is a coalition partner of the SNS, the People's Peasant Party stands for. I think we can produce enough energy in agriculture, enough products to process it, so we're working on our population. With that in mind, I don't agree that subsidies are decreasing, they're not shrinking. I agree that they are redistributing in the future and benefiting from more intensive agricultural production. Now what I have to show the prime minister and all the MPs, and I'm going to convert that offer the same way as the Prime Minister did, if what I'm saying right now isn't right, I'm going to resign. If this is true, someone else will resign. So this is where I keep the paperwork on the subsidy issue. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you should know why we've come to the opportunity to do budget rebalancing often, why this country is in economic trouble, why agriculture hasn't progressed? For a simple reason, not just because it was a little out, but because the subsidies were going in the wrong direction. Now I'm going to show you the documentation I patiently collected and that so far has not been challenged. Of course there's no fake I.D., there's a photocopy of the original I.D. that's attached in India, and it's a winery. You certainly know whose winery it is. I have here a request submitted to the Agency for Agricultural Payments in 2007, August 15, the last days. Therefore, it is a request for the subsidisation of wine plantations, 164.135 pieces of kalem, on a plot that occupied 51 hectares and 7,760 meters. For parcels 2817, 2818, 2819, Krcedin. So remember well, this is August 15, 2007. Now I'm going to show you another document, just a little patience, please. The second document is called the lease agreement. The lease contract was signed on 7 November 2007. The document is the same from the Ministry of Agriculture, here you have it, November 7th and the document was signed by Jaroslav Stupavsky, in the name of Vinaria, which you know about. Otherwise, the gentleman who signed this contract is one of the directors of the Komerca MK, owned by one known tycoon. So the contract itself shows that the former prime minister, otherwise the owner of this winery, is involved in the tycoons business, and this shows that on November 7th he rents those parcels 2817, 2818, 2819,Krcedin. For this you get a grant of 525,000 euros for spring planting, and your contract is from November, and you submitted a request on August 15th for the same parcels. How did you know that on August 15th you would rent the parcels you purchased only on November 7, 2007? There is, therefore, documentation that says it is a crime, and the lease was made on the territory of the Indji municipality, and the public competition took part in the "Agrounia" ownership of MK "Comerca". Another competitor was the company I was talking about, owned by the former prime minister and federal interior minister, a man who was supposed to reveal crime. Therefore, he participated in the lease of agricultural land in a public competition with "Agrounia" for the same parcels of 2817, 2818, 2819, in Krcedin, by competing in India for both companies the same man. Branko Đuric, director of Agrounije, owned by MK "Comerc", i.e. Miodrag Kostic. Now I'm wondering, how a man competed with himself and how it's not a crime that took about 60 million dinars of subsidies in today's anti-value so that someone could deal with vineyarding for three years? Later, the vineyard was sold "Agrounia" over three years, owned by MK Komerc. With that in mind, I agree if it is necessary to confirm that the gentleman who was the prime minister and who was the federal interior minister and how he had, even co-ownership relations with tycoons, because in the APR he wrote – that his co-owner of the winery was Milos Pud, a man who was suspected of a sugar affair before 2003, at a time when he owned the winery. Then let's move on. By solving the number, this and that, since 24.11.2008, this society has registered data change by changing founders, by erasing Milos Pudar, etc., and registering Vinemont, Ventures, Savikam, Tortola, Red Town, Virgin Islands, British, etc. I want to ask, therefore, that I am willing to do what the prime minister did, if this is not true what I say, if this document is not true, that our former prime minister had a co-owner from the Virgin Islands, that he had co-owner of the tycoon, that later that part and the second part would be sold to "Agrouni", owned by the IK. So, this is the person who spoke earlier about the relationship between the tycoon and the new government, and I was in co-ownership with the tycoons, he made it to the Virgin Islands. The documentation I have has otherwise been attached to the prosecution since 2007, but since the prosecution in a way that you all know has been installed by the former regime, the prosecution is independent of the new government, because it is not from the old one, since the tycoon has been involved in the appointment of certain police officers, it is likely that no persecution has occurred so far. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how 60 million dinars of subsidies were taken, that was supposed to belong to the peasants. So, it's about six thousand peasant pensions, which 6,000 peasant pensions got subsidies in an unwarranted criminal way. So, this documentation is extremely showing and proving. Since the plot was the subject of restitution and that we contracted it with the people, and I was part of it, we needed it in 2000 and 2001. In 2002 and 2003 to return to the old owners, and we did not, even happened that the former prime minister from that period fell into the plot and allegedly planted the vineyard, which was later really planted, but since the regulation was only valid for the spring of 2007, the subsidy was unwarranted. So, the plot is now excluded from restitution, and the state must cash out another 60 million dinars in order to compensate for damage to the Jaksic family, because the plot is usurped in the way I described it and since it cannot be returned physically, the state will have to pay another 500,000 euros. So this combination, as they tend to say, cost us a million and 25,000 euros, or if you want to cost us 12,000 agricultural pensions, which the former prime minister, who was once a federal interior minister, who was supposed to stop crime, and apparently encouraged him to defend, is instead of serving the state, and I have already proved that he also avoided it when he needed to, instead of serving the state, he served both the state and the people. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Prosecutors, out there somewhere you are looking at, Croatia has made some progress, but Croatia has had the strength to arrest its former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader as part of the fight against corruption, it has had the courage to arrest the former mayor or current mayor, who still has the mandate in Zagreb, Milan Bandic. I don't know what you're waiting for, not with the Bandicians in Serbia, with the big bandits, here's a public call for you to check this file. If it is not true, I am resigning, if it is true I cannot expect the previous farmer to resign twice, since he will have to do it for the prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11514	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Next speaker, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11515	Madam President, gentlemen ministers, these are difficult times. Unfortunately, it is not possible to make easy decisions in difficult times. For the past 25 years, I'm afraid we haven't had much time when times haven't been more than difficult and we don't have the same view of that history and we won't agree on that, so today I have no intention of talking about it. What I think is essential is that, above all, MPs and all MPs at the Parliament club where we are the Social Democratic Party will vote against budget rebalancing. We will vote against budget rebalances because we do not see that there is a sustainable concept that should bring the situation into a significantly different state than it is today. I believe that without the serious and real decentralisation of the country, we cannot avoid the repetition of the economic problems that lead us to this kind of parliamentary debate. I am absolutely sure that while several thousand villages, as many as there are in Serbia, do not get their budgets, while in several thousand villages the property tax does not remain as one small budget and the Nucleus decision-making of people who live there, which will allow them to start each fall to debate with their mayors and presidents of municipalities about how municipal and city budgets should look, when thousands of points in Serbia people have an opportunity, people chosen of course to decide how money will be spent, we will not be able to get to that, Mr. Minister, that we have a change of mentality, as someone says, change of consciousness and look at the world or whatever it is we define. We're not gonna get people on the chance to have more responsibility. This greater responsibility can only create a clear awareness and need for everyone to pay taxes. It's the way tax evac is solved, the essential way. If a small number of people decide, and millions of people here today are watching television broadcasts to see what happens to their fates, I'm afraid there's no political legislator or any expert among ministers or wherever, who can think of a way to get a huge number of people to start caring and deciding about their lives in a different way than it is now. I am also sure that in cities, people should be able to build advice from consumers of district heating, water, advice that will be in all municipal public enterprises and give their consent to the policy of taking out waste of urban cleanliness and whatever. It's the only way to get deep into solving public enterprises' problems, mostly local, but in the next step and what you're talking about here in the past days and weeks, in one fundamental change and state-owned public enterprises, as unfortunately one of the biggest producers of all of these troubles we have now. What do I mean? There's no responsibility without a decision. There's no responsibility for citizens without a decision or their involvement in what we're doing here today. It's not possible to do that unless there's a system way to solve it. This will happen otherwise where in not many cities and municipalities there is a possibility for Serbia together. In 2015, this will all be a real policy, so the rural budgets and the participation of city administrations in all rural areas and the creation of advice that I was talking about here. So if we don't open up space to the citizens to decide, I'm afraid we won't be able to get to the point where, together with the ministers who are changing, with the presidents of the governments that are changing, with the presidents of states that are changing, we're essentially changing the way our country works. Then I am sure that Serbia will be a country where there will be several times more municipalities than there are today, that we will have three major regions, Vojvodina, Belgrade and the rest of Serbia, that in the central state will decide on foreign affairs, on defence, on internal affairs, on justice, on monetary policy, on economic relations with abroad, and everything else will be decentralised because it is the only way to involve people in decision-making in economic policy, those who truly have the greatest consequences of this economic policy. What's the other thing, I think the two ministers who are here might not be the best address to address those questions, but I'll do it. I apologize, Mr Anticu, three ministers. You stood there in the corner, so I can't see you. I've been asking the same questions for over two years and I don't get an answer for them. I really don't understand why we don't go seriously into irrigation. We've got 200,000 acres of irrigated land. We can have a million and a hundred thousand hectares, a project worth between three and four billion euros, with large multipliers for all participants in the process. On the other hand, energy efficiency. Almost a million-and-a-half apartments are heating up on electricity, on remote heating, and on gas in this country. Two and a half billion euros should be isolated from those apartments and houses. A huge job for the construction industry, for the producers of the insulation material. I think that's how we can attract foreign investors and those who have money in Serbia. In seven years, that money comes back. So, as in irrigation, we can't have a problem with whether these investments are good or not. The third thing is the conversion of bad forests to good ones. I think in a few years we can have over 500m euros in biomass income. Gentlemen Ministers, as you know, yesterday the EU made one big decision concerning this very thing, energy efficiency, or renewable energy sources. This is the EU's policy. The fourth thing, I really don't understand why nothing has been done in the last 30 months to make or to get an answer to the question whether we have really these kind of oil shale reserves in Aleksinec or not? According to what they're studying, with which everyone you're sitting in the government and you're dealing with energy, you've been able to meet, they suggest that at this point we have confirmed reserves for one million tons of oil from oil shale. He took the process very far in the second half of 2011 and the beginning of 2012. A year ago, I put as then the head of the parliamentary club together for Serbia's proposal to this Parliament, the Committee on Economy, Energy, Regional Development at that moment, and what not, here, Madam President of the Committee is here, to open a debate on whether NIS will have an investment in the so-called, here, Mr Minister knows for sure, whether or not this investment will be 300 million dollars if one technology or 600 million dollars is applied if there is another technology. We have almost 30% as state ownership in the NIS and nearly a million and half Serbian citizens are minority NIS shareholders. We haven't had a hearing in a committee in a year, and we have the right as a state to do that. We have the right to the NIS Statute and we have the right to all the rules and contract that NIS is sold to "Gaspromneft". Also for the Minister of Energy and for you as Minister of Finance, the issue. In order to say this, there are complex opportunities around the South Stream and the NIS, both economically and politically, but I think this parliament should also get an answer as to what our state and government's position on another pipeline that is very relevant at this time in Europe, and concerns Azerbaijani gas. All the countries in our environment have given consent to participate in this project, and we haven't. A huge project, and I know for a fact that the state of Azerbaijan has a very good affection for Serbia and has serious initiatives and is waiting for a response from us. In the end, I want to say that I am fully in agreement with the regional policy that the government is leading. I think it's a good idea that I talked about it in parliament more than a year ago, turn the Western Balkans into a single market and be a small EU because that way we will all join the EU faster together. That's good politics. It's not a good policy that we don't have a strategic plan to make this country's potential more accessible to all of us living in the country so that we can better organize our lives. Dear Ministers, there is no strong economy unless millions of citizens are convinced they have a chance in this economy. decentralisation is the policy Serbia should enter. Together for Serbia, they will fight wherever they can, of course, legitimately and legally, make the policy alive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11516	Thank you. The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11517	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Petrovic for all the attention he has given to some projects in the field of energy and to apologize for my little voice, because I'm a little sick. As far as energy efficiency is concerned, I fully agree with you that this is one huge, unfortunately, not sufficiently explored zone and that there is a space that is extremely important for our energy sector, first of all taking into account that any investment in energy efficiency is far more cost-effective than a new energy facility and that today's largest energy policy throughout Europe and the developed world are just saving energy and Serbia will do a lot without any doubt in the next period. We are also considering with our EU friends and the ESCO model contracts. I expect that the Ministry of Mining and Energy will quickly enter these models of contracts that will enable private-public partnerships and define contractual relations related to energy-saving projects and through the division of "profits" from energy savings and investments will pay off. When it comes to biomass and renewable sources, we are currently at 21% of renewable consumption. We have an obligation to increase that to 27% by 2020. The State has brought certain incentive measures and certain subsidies, i.e. fid-in tariffs for different types of renewable energy facilities. Unfortunately, biomass has been highly underrated here for years, and above all this wind energy, small hydroelectric power plants, and when it comes to biomass, the ministry is doing a study that should be able to respond to our overall potentials when it comes to biomass. What are the first thoughts and ideas of these people who are very serious experts in the area, especially eastern Serbia has huge potential when it comes to biomass, this should be seriously considered. When it comes to NIS development and investment in deep processing, we still have some controversy about whether hydrocracking or coking is a better option for our oil industry. As you yourself have said, the difference in investment is about 300m euros and approximately at this point the management of NIS and the people who are at this moment part of the NIS management structure in front of the Republic of Serbia are closer to that cheaper variant, not only because 300 million is cheaper, but because it is more reliable as technology is widely applied in countries that have a serious oil industry. The only refinery that has done this hydrocracking is the refinery in Italy, and it still has quite unreliable parameters to make a serious assessment based on them. Finally, when it comes to shale, I have to say that for several months I am the Minister of Mining and Energy, but that with great attention I have followed one broad controversy on the topic and environmental elements related to this project, but also to the whole of our energy agreement that we have with the Russian Federation and the fact that if we entered into the investigation under this agreement by nature of things, it would belong to the NIS. I have to tell you very honestly that we are still at the government level having consultations on whether or not at any point we should enter into some of the next steps related to Alexine and the reserve of the mines. When it comes to TAP, or Azerbaijani gas, unfortunately, the Republic of Serbia at that active time when the project was generally defined was not in the mood or did not show adequate interest in the project, we were defined for the South Stream, and in the Nabucco reserve, which, as it is rhymed, is to the greatest extent as the project at this time, let me not be literaryly active anymore. I expect to have an official visit to Azerbaijan by the end of the year and talk to our friends on the subject there. Anyway, even though we're late for this project, we have an option that through the interactions that we can work with neighbouring countries, we get in touch with that pipeline and the option that we can use its capacities. Interconnection with Bulgaria, i.e. Nis-Dimitrovgrad, if you were to do two-way with serious compressor cells, could also be a solution to our support for TAP, of course, provided that TAP has sufficient capacity and that we can get into it from the point of view of capacity, because as far as I know, "British Petroleum" and their Norwegian partners have mostly leased all capacities, so that we could have contact with Azerbaijani gas exclusively through intermediaries or traders in some perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11518	Thank you. (Dusan Petrovic, from town: Replica. I wasn't chairing during your presentation, so I'm not sure if you have a chance for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11519	Three things, what I can hear is that Azerbaijan is waiting for our government. I think the door is completely open from the point of view of EU energy policy, as it is said, diversification of gas sources is the first thing. It can't be bad for anyone in Serbia if we have gas on both sides. Two, for the first time I've heard that the Russians have any right in Aleksinec, only if they haven't acquired any rights in these two years, in 2012, they didn't have it. The third thing, NIS, Mr. Minister, you know it well because it's your job, it's a large number of MPs here I guess he knows, it can happen that in the next two or three years we're running out of domestic oil. That's a serious probability. The moment we run out of domestic oil, minus 200m euros in NIS a year, that means Smederevo when US Steel came out. I've been asking for a year, please, to ask us to discuss it in this assembly. Nothing's been going on for a year. Three hundred million euros, the ideal cheaper variant is 1% of NIS's GDP investment, if 600m euros are so much. Now, so much energy we're investing in finding foreign investors, someone who's going to invest 20, 30, 50. These people need to invest either 300 or 600 and don't invest and we don't do anything or, I don't want to be incorrect, we don't make it happen. We own 30%, almost a million and a half people, Serbian citizens are small shareholders of NIS. I appeal, Mr. Minister, to appeal to Mrs. Tomic, since you are the chairman of the board, to bring Kravchenka here, Mr. Minister will certainly be in the mood to discuss why there is no such investment in NIS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11520	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11521	Mr. Petrovic, we don't have a different attitude at all. It is the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia, and it is such that NIS should urgently complete the investment cycle, primarily in the Republic of Serbia and primarily by investing in the refinery, i.e. in the deep processing project. It is precisely by insisting on the Ministry of Mining and Energy and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the Protocol of the Thirteenth Mixed Committee of Serbia, the Russian Federation, that the position of the Serbian side, i.e. the government of Serbia, should jointly consider the issue of further NIS development strategy, that it is necessary to complete the investment cycle and, above all, in Serbia in a refinery in deep processing. I think that both the government and the opposition, that is, the whole Serbian political scene, has an entirely identical angle from which it observes things. When it comes to Alexine, we can check it out one more time, so that at one of the next sessions when the questions of the MPs are given a detailed answer, because indeed in the past few years a lot has been done and there have been a lot of government conclusions and I would like to check it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11522	Thank you. Mr. Zlata Djeric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, we have before us after five months of this Government's Budget Rebalance proposal, as popularly called this document, a document that speaks of changes to the budget amounts foreseen only a month before we will bring the budget for 2015. Given that I am an MP in the fourth term, I know that the adoption of the budget law and the debate on the budget are the most grateful subject of courting voters, especially since the budget is never ideal and everything in it can be attacked from the opposition point of view and nothing is wrong with it. You know, in Serbia, three jobs are done perfectly. Everyone knows how to put together a football team that's guaranteed a winner, everyone knows how to put together a government and everyone knows how to put together a budget. However, this is an extremely difficult and responsible job for each government and throughout history are the most unpopular finance ministers, because they make very difficult decisions, very unpopular decisions, and since we have announced serious changes and serious reforms in this government, of course, it will be very painful procedures. It's always unpopular when you have to enter a policy that reduces profits or pensions and it's a painful procedure that no government does unless you really have to. Since it's an armed change, it's something that's in common to get something better, safer, that resistance that's present in public right now, because anyone who knows they're going to work more and gets less natural resistance will certainly be financially mastered. What we in New Serbia are looking at by looking at this budget rebalance, we find extremely good, is a reform approach to economic recovery, because there are not enough budgets or budgets if we do not have an economy. The budget can't be the biggest employer. The economy has to be the biggest employer in order for the budget to be rich and to be able to carry out all its commitments to all budget users. At this point, we have an economy that's devastated and that's something this government inherited. This government has inherited serious financial problems. I don't think it would be correct, nor fair to say that in five months, anything revolutionary could have been done and changed, given that in these five months there were serious problems in terms of floods and natural disasters that had to be urgently and very expensively solved in the interests of citizens. So, we recognize the approach, the new approach, the significant economic resources we have, and I like it, and we in New Serbia, when we analyze budget rebalancing, we particularly consider it important and valuable that the relationship to subsidies in agriculture is changing in terms of greater responsibility and advocating agriculture stimulation in one way, as we see it, a better way. Also, social contributions that significantly exhaust each budget will be more responsible and rationally deployed. What I will repeat, and what my colleague Dragan Jovanovic said in his opening statement and what I will draw attention to, because I was an MP in my term from 2008 to 2012, is the number of agencies that we spoke about in our pre-election address to citizens and promised to do something drastic, since we really see them as ticks on the back of the budget. Serbia has over 140 agencies. I will remind the public of Serbia from 2008 to 2012 the largest number of agencies has arisen. They were, responsibly, I was an MP in this assembly, they were indeed political formations, designed and legalized in this high house so that a number of party personnel could be placed. It is in the highest number of their function. There's a number of agencies whose existence is justified. What I suggest, I know, and Mr. Prime Minister said that he really has a serious problem with shutting down some agencies. Yes, they are protected by numerous laws, numerous pressures, many other arbitration, but indeed agencies and agency directors must have salaries of over two and three thousand euros. At the moment that the whole of Serbia is choking and trying with maximum tolerance, even all citizens, to overcome this crisis with our patience and our giving and our giving. So if we can't because of some pressure to put them out, or because of some other legal difficulties, we can put them in order to receive receipts that are suitable for Serbia at this time and for what Serbia is. It's one of our well-intentioned suggestions. I say again, respecting that it's something this government inherited. Whenever it was in every legal project in 2008-2012, the proposal to introduce an agency with a certain law and everything that in several members explained what this agency would do and do, who would run it, as an MP, I have always given only one amendment that I do not like to give, to delete and explain why I do not think it should be. After that, knowing that as an opposition MP, I will not be accepted by the amendment, another amendment that if the agency is already in place, it takes account of its work in this high house. None of them have ever been accepted. We don't have any reports on the established agencies about their work, nor what it is for them to exist. I don't know how in my Somboro I'm going to explain the existence of a number of funny agencies whose existence my citizens have absolutely no use for. Given that NS time is up, I would like to say that the NS will support this budget rebalancing in the voting day, because in NS this government has both co-workers and fellow workers for a better new Serbia as we all want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11524	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Let MP Vojislav Vujic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11525	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Vujovicu, you are the Minister of Finance, I am a MP as well as my colleagues, so we are all public workers together. The question I'm about to give you is not to consider it personal, I'm not to refer it to you, I'm to the function you're doing. What is your salary today or, say, the Prime Minister's salary, and what will it be after this reduction? The bill says bigger. So, to be clear, I personally think that the salary of the finance minister and prime minister in Serbia is very low, but the fact is that the salary, say, of Serbia's president, the governor of the National Bank will be higher after today's reduction. And the salaries of health workers, doctors to be less. So you put out the falses today when you said that the salaries to the doctors would be higher, they would be less after this reduction. Question number two, would you reduce wages and pensions if the level of foreign direct investment was higher by two or three times? They are now at a historic minimum, counting on the previous year. Economists say foreign direct investment is higher. You shouldn't cut wages and pensions. Do you know, among other things, why are they at such a low level? Because you call each other in the ruling coalition criminals, ugly names. Minister Mihajlovic charged another government employee with setting up tenders for her friends. Who today wants investors to invest their money in a country where ministers call each other criminals. It's not called an investment climate. It's called mistrust between coalition partners. It's called instability. Instability means less investment. Less investment leads you to a reduction in wages and pensions by your guilt, not ours. Question and finding number three - six months after the SNS came to power you adopted the budget, you were then not the finance minister, for the next year in which you increased public sector staff expenditures by over 400m euros, and there was no increase in salaries then. This corresponds to 35-50,000 new employees in various public sector positions. So it's not just claims, it's facts that say in the budgets that you've brought. I'll tell you later and the exact numbers, it's done...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11526	Please, Mr. Nikolic, don't lead the controversy with the minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11527	The minister is talking to me, not me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11528	Mr. Minister, I don't blame you for anything, but for Mr. Nikolic, because they carry it anyway, the citizens see it on...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11529	What I'm asking and telling the finance minister is that today's cut in wages and pensions will save less than that figure by how much you've raised your expenditures. So you're cutting wages and pensions so you can service and pay the wages to the echelon of people who have been employed since 2012. So you're cutting wages and pensions because you don't have the ability to attract and increase the level of foreign direct investment to what is needed today in Serbia. That's why you're cutting wages and pensions. Pensions, Mr. Vujovicu, are home. They're not acquired right. Pensions are acquired property, houses, and you take down windows and doors on that house today, and it goes winter, and you tell the pensioners – get along. The increase in pensions in 2008 on the economic side may have been disputable, but today's reduction is unconstitutional and I believe that a large number of pensioners will prove it in the Constitutional Court. It's not true that wages are only reduced by 10%. I just spoke to a primary school teacher whose salary will be reduced to 17%, 7% based on past work cuts, because he spent some time in the private sector and another 10% with today's cut, 17% to 40 and some thousands. You also take away dignity from those in our children who need cities, teachers and teachers, teachers, teachers, doctors, police. I must say, this is no time for political bickering. The questions I've asked you don't owe me, answers to questions, no political party, you owe to the citizens who are following this discussion today, and tomorrow they're going to fight for existence. The only thing they get from this government in the last two and a half years is the opening ceremony of models, announcements, promises, and Arab games across Serbia. And you and I, we know how harmful these measures are, and time will show. Just until you admit it, Mr Vujovicu, all those who are cutting wages today and pensions will be deeply in the existential problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11530	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Babic, a replica of Mr Nikolic's exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11531	This would be a nice exposure, a respected colleague of Nikolic, trained well in front of the mirror, but there is only one segment missing, which is the most important, and that is the truth. The truth is all over the other side. It is true that this government continued with an irresponsible policy unfounded in the economy, that it continued to look through pink glasses, that it continued to send messages as Mr Mirko Cvetkovic sent when he said Serbia was statistically out of crisis, but that its citizens would not feel it. That she continued with the policy of closing her eyes before the growth of budget deficits year after year, and it is known when the deficit is growing in a row for three years, that it is necessary to take measures, that the government of Dejan Nikolic and DS has been watching all this for five years and has done nothing for five years. Now they were so concerned about the evil fate of Serbian citizens, educational workers, and my family member, my family's closest family, the same educator, the same answer I said then and now, that it continued with Dejan Nikolic's policy, DS, 2017, not one teacher, not one doctor, not one policeman, not one soldier would have any salary, because we were so certainly bankrupt. What would happen to the dignity of these people then? What about consumption then? How would these people live then? Is something constitutional or not constitutional? A nonstop tends to be the case for us to experiment with our citizens and with the state of Serbia. I'll tell you later in the principle debate what measures both Latvia and Estonia and Lithuania and Romania and Portugal and Greece had, and they were all cutting salaries and everyone was cutting pensions and they were able to heal their economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11532	Time, Mr. Granny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11533	This isn't alchemy. This is a pure economy and a pure reality for which you are responsible and your irresponsible policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11534	Thank you, Mr. Babic. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11535	Since you mentioned my name and what's going on and the program we're talking about, I'm going to take the opportunity to remind you once again of something very important. If we were in a situation that was healthy and sustainable we wouldn't even be talking about this, we wouldn't even be proposing this program, we wouldn't be looking for a chance to solve this. Secondly, very important and I think we need to understand this, the alternative to this programme that we propose is the first step, only the first step involved in this budget rebalance, and the next much bigger step is the three-step that awaits us in the period 2015 to 2017 is the distribution of the burden of reform on four pillars so that everyone can have the opportunity to participate in the reform process and to take the burden of reform equally. This part, which we're talking about today, about salaries and pensions is a small part of the burden that will happen at the beginning, but it's part of the burden without which we can't start reforming because it's part of the burden that all countries had to bear. counterpart Babic just said all the countries that were and were waiting for a harder time to do so and the reductions were bigger than in Serbia. Don't forget that the program that was focused on the first year and the main blow on salaries and pensions was a much greater reduction in both wages and pensions. We're talking about a 10% reduction in salary and even less in pensions. About our efforts to ensure that the burden within the salary is evenly distributed on the inside of pensions distributed to the proportional power of people to bear it is something we have said as our intention, not as a mistake in that programme. And secondly, this is a three-year program that solves a state that is the result of the cumulative history of some of the 1990s to the present 600 companies that have defacto been in a state of pre-fashion. No one's been able to make it on artificial machines as long as we have. Now we're solving this problem. When we put it away, one way or another, then we'll be able to move on. The public enterprises we've all put here on the wallpaper that should be the source of new income and reductions or future cost cuts and budget revenue increases will give effect in a year or two. This reduction in wages and pensions gives effect immediately. That's painful. It'll cut everybody's wages and pensions. The example you mentioned, an example of ministers, 105,000 net wages including so-called past work with current decreases of 93 or 94 thousand. After the cut, it's going to be 90. It'll be smaller after this reduction than it is now. So, not much smaller, but smaller. For all the people who are at that level, which are ministerial salaries, it will be almost the same, and with a small number of those above it may be some minor improvement. In pensions, as I said, at the level of 50,000, there will be a reduction of about 5,800. Very similar to the real reduction in those who work with a salary of 50,000 and have an additional transport supplement, a regress for an annual vacation and a compensation for a warm meal. They will have a 5,750 reduction, and for those who receive only a pension, the reduction will be 5,800. Why? Because we recognize these people to these supplements. When a reduction is applied to them, the reduction is almost the same and it covers over 90% of your pensioners. We're saying every 10 won't be in that formula. Finally, very important, we need to get back to the economy. You used scope, trust abroad, and a large inflow of foreign direct investment and selling assets to cover and finance problems and delay. We can do it today, too, because we now have two billion fiscal liquidity, we can get two more billion and we'll get it from the UAE. We could do the same thing as we've done so far to put this whole thing off for a better time. But we tell everyone -- people, if we do that, it'll be harder for us. This is the fourth year we're on capital markets. We are now expected to show that we have been worthy of the trust given to Serbia by large investors in Europe and America. Don't forget that 40% of our bonds in dinars are held by strangers who trust us and who, of course, earn money. Well, everyone does it out of their egos, but they trust us. If we let down their trust and we don't return foreign direct investment, which I expect we'll get in large amounts, but in a year from the start of these reforms, then we have a difficult problem, much harder than we have today. If we solve the structural problems of the privatisation agency, if we bring public enterprises into order, if this reduction of wages and pensions gives us space at the beginning to close the so-called. structural deficit, look out, these are hard measures that close the permanent gap between our salary and pension expenditures and the incomes we make, and if we increase revenues, we're on track to get out of all of this as winners in two to three years. This is practice and theory, applied theory in the practice that works, which many countries have passed, and that's why people give us credit for the courage to do so and for the reality of this program. If we do that, we're on our way. If not, we're losing one of the last trains to get out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11536	I thank Minister Vujovic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11537	First, tell Mr Babic that parliament plays a control role in relation to the government, has no defence role. When the president spoke today about the English Parliament, he stands at the entrance - we serve the nation. If you continue to do so, Mr. Babic, or the chairman, to tell Mr. Babic, he will soon stand at our parliament - we are serving Vlad and Alexander Vukic. Mr. Minister, to report to the facts... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11538	Mr. Nikolic, do you replicate Mr. Babic or Mr. Minister? For a replica, you can go to Mr. Babic's presentation at the moment that you finished your exposure and the replica... [[Dejan Nikolic, from the place: I answered the line.]] (Dejan Nikolic, from the post: Mr Vujovic. You can't, because Mr. Vujovic didn't mention you in any way, nor in any way misread your exposure so that you could get the word. You got the replica and you're done, please. (Dejan Nikolic, from the post: Can I help Mr. Babic? ) Mr. Nikolic, you can complete the replica of Mr. Babic, but you cannot move on to Mr. Vujovic's replica. Please, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11539	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The problem with this government, among the many problems we could be talking about here for days, is inconsistency. We told Mr. Wolfie a few times today, and I'd say he's in the O.R., and we've been reading... (Zoran Babic, from the scene: you read.) Sometimes it's twice, and sometimes it's a hundred times small, so I'll read it again, Mr. Granny. Give it to Mr. Babic. So, I guarantee you it won't cut pensions, Hala Pink and Zemun... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11540	Mr. Nikolic, that was not said by Mr. Babic, nor was it the basis of your replica, so I apologize, I can no longer give you to continue to replicate Mr. Babic. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just some of the MPs of the former regime confirm everything the Prime Minister has said today. So he says that someone in education is employed with a reduced salary based on a different calculation of past working hours by 7%. To translate into years of internship, it's 17 years old. So, some gentleman worked 17 years in a private sector and now he's got a job in public. Let's bet that was right between 2008 and 2012. Here, one-on-one. What are we getting at? That the then government had ruined the private sector. Nothing else happened. Well, when you complain about pensioners' fates, remember, that private or real sector was the only one who could and only provided both salaries and pensions... So what is this? (Dejan Nikolic, from the scene: On what basis is he talking now? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11542	Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Sutanovac, let the speaker finish, don't throw it out of the bench. He is an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. (Dejan Nikolic, from the scene: On what basis does he speak? I want to check in with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nikolic, please, I'll give you a warning. He is an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group. Mr. Sutanovac, please let the speaker finish. Mr. Sutanovac, don't make me give a warning, I wouldn't want to do that. Go on, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11543	Mr. Chairman, the reactions of the MPs who belong to the former regime only confirm that I am right about everything I have said and that the truth hurts, but the pain and those who have lost their jobs, no jobs and no political responsibility and their political price to those people can make it up to them and be a shame to do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11544	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Minister Alexander Vulin called to say the word. Here you go. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word is Marko Djurisic, injured by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11545	The Honorable Chairman, you have injured Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, by giving a reply to the previous speaker without any basis, are neither mentioned by him, nor by his party, nor by anyone. He moved with a statement by the MPs on the topic on the agenda and said nothing offensive about him personally, about his party, or about the president of his party. So, there was no basis for the replica, to say what he was saying for the last two minutes. Please introduce some criteria here. I couldn't get the right to a replica because the chairman said – I have the right to decide whether or not I can, and I won't give it to you. Am I being discriminated against in this House? Can't I get a replica when I'm looking under the Rules of Procedure, when I'm directly mentioned and my statement has been misrepresented, and you're giving a replica of a colleague from your parliamentary group just because he asked for it, without any grounds? Please stick to the Rules of Procedure. I spoke here for a minute and 30 seconds. I've never talked about anything but hurting the Rules of Procedure. I didn't abuse the replica, which is what your fellow Members of the Parliament do regularly every time they report for damage to the Rules of Procedure. I won't do it because I respect this House, but I ask you to respect it, both you and anyone else, for this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11546	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The fact that you didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure by exposing the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's why I didn't interrupt you, but I allowed you to expose the breach of the Rules of Procedure to the end. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Arsic is an authorised representative of the parliamentary group at this point and I am on his request to receive the right to the replica, which allows me to the Rules of Procedure, to have the right to reply. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement on Vote Day? (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Of course I ask to vote on the injury. ) The word is Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11547	Thank you. When it comes to past work, you know that, I really do not belong to some large ones, at least I have been quite critical of the numerous EU values and what it represents, but it is completely incomprehensible to me that the political parties that have all their political future, past and present are now based solely on the EU to criticise the abolition of past work, i.e. the reduction of past work, which is an absolutely valuable EU category and there is not one single country in the EU that has past work. It can't be found. We saved at least some of the past work. What we've been pretty critical of, but now we're getting to that position so I don't really understand what we want. One discussion that hasn't been fired enough, another discussion you're firing, the third discussion of your austerity measures doesn't hit the richest, the fifth discussion of your austerity measures won't hit anyone, you haven't taken enough, you've taken enough. I really don't know what we want. It just can't be found here in the discussion, you can't understand what we're asked to do. Whatever is done, of course it's not good. But there is something that is quite worrying here, especially when spoken in the context of foreign investment, attracting foreign investors, an economic environment for foreign investment. Don't spread your hatred for anyone no matter what country or ethnic groups they come from. Here you are listening to what is said - Arab games, meaning that they brought in a billion dollars, under the most favourable conditions, that's why we insult them, that's why we should drive them away if at all possible. What's next? What nation or ethnic group would be inappropriate and investors would be with us? If they buy a land by chance, as we'll call it, the German game, the Russian game, only if something doesn't suit us. That's what makes a foreign investor. When you automatically declare a foreign investor undesirable because it belongs to this or that, this or that ethnic group. It makes investors, a place to say – thank you, you gave us the most favourable loan on the globe of the Earth, and you have no great reason to do so, except for personal relationships, we look to drive them away. Everything that is brought or done in this country is a reason for contempt, for hate. I remember some of the presidents of the states who went faster in time, better to go to Gaddafi to get an order and get all kinds of medals, now don't talk about it anymore, but at the time they weren't Arab actresses, they were hoping to bring some oil, so my Novi Sad has monuments to some composers, we don't know what they're called, we don't know where they come from, so we didn't despise them and talk about them with hate, and now they're Arab gamers. Don't make people want to contribute here, make a deposit. These are the kind of discussions that drive them. This is the kind of story that makes them, that capital is a sensitive thing, that's how it's done. When he listens, or at least he thinks that significant political parties sincerely hate him, sincerely despise, insult, humiliate him, he can choose wherever he wants to go on the globe of the Earth, in New York City, and he decided Belgrade, a place to thank.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11548	Thank you, Mr. Minister. MP Zoran Babic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11549	I thank Mr. Vice President Personal Mention, Replication, it's hard to replicate and talk when good information is delivered to him, when the facts are delivered to him from this arena, and the Assembly is the arena, as I agree with you, Mr. Vulin, that I will never understand hatred, that I will never understand jealousy, because I think it's the feelings that piss off whoever's wearing it and that they're like boomerang, no matter how strong they were to talk to whoever you hate, they turn around to him and go back to whoever hates him. But some people in this room will never learn. I don't even understand this notion of democracy where the Assembly is a place to just attack the government, because one group is small, without ideas, without politics, here they need the help of the majority to attack the government. No, this majority has chosen the government, has support because we are working towards the same goal and we have the same goal, which is to heal the economy, heal public finances, place Serbia in the place it belongs, which is the place of full EU member. I am sorry that Mr Nikolic is not in the O.R., which we cannot debate, I would also like to receive answers from Mr Nikolic, as it was easy to support the government in that term from 8th to 2012, which increased the price and interest costs from 9.2 to almost 70 billion a year by just one term. Was it easy or difficult to support the government and vote to activate guarantees that were only in one term of government from 4.6 to 21.8 billion dinars? How many futures, how many pensions are there, how many educators are through such wrong decisions cut off from the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11550	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11551	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my predecessor Petar Petrovic, deputy JS parliamentary group has already said that our parliamentary group will support both this rebalancing and two accompanying laws. I'm pleased to have you around today who are obliged to say so, to be present in a debate like this, until a few minutes ago, there was also the Prime Minister and three other ministers, and this points to the seriousness of the rebalancing and the subject that lies before us today. Today, we have a budget rebalance and two accompanying laws that are not in themselves popular and are being commented all day. After all, neither you as representatives of the government nor we the MPs are here to just do popular things, but we have to do some necessary, urgent and responsible things. One of these is exactly this budget rebalance and these two accompanying laws. I don't want to repeat myself with the previous speakers, because today we could hear anything in this debate. I want to tell you that JS is not one of those who's going to be the critics. We may give some criticism, but in any case, we are against the critics and we support you in such a struggle. Those well-intentioned criticisms could be in the next, first of all, we have to realize that the part of the people who, or citizens who will be directly under the measures of these two laws, is fortunately one small part of our citizens. Also, when it comes to pensioners, we've heard that over 60% of pensioners won't even be covered by these laws. One other thing I want to point out to you, it's a matter of justice and injustice. Yesterday, last night, on the Finance Committee, we were commenting on the 2012 law. You know what that law applies to. Last night we opened the controversy, but we didn't finish, the Law on the Limitation of Profits in State Authorities and the Public Sector, and he precisely defined that no profit could be greater than 164,000 dinars. There's a moment when I say justice and injustice. All these people who will be affected by these measures will be able to bear this, or to endure, because we are all involved in these measures, but that part of the injustice that there are still people who receive salaries of 200, 250, or 300,000, and we have heard that there is not a small number of those who have a higher salary than the president of the state, a greater salary than the prime minister, a greater salary than you ministers. I think that's where you should react, and my question to you, Mr. Finance Minister -- do you know what's going on with that law and what's the reason why it's not being applied, or why those people who broke that law are not sanctioned? To help you with one more thing, on the Committee on Finance last night, we found that no methodology has yet been fully established to accompany correctness in the implementation of all these laws, and as an example, some public enterprises that, knowing what awaits us in the future, have taken advantage of the opportunity and have already increased their wages, calculating that, when the moment comes to pay in this way, they are not being corrected. I'm one of those who insists, and it's easy to get these public enterprises and those officials who abused it, so they're the strictest sanctioned, precisely because of this abuse they've done. Of course, I said that for everything you're doing, you and the Prime Minister of our government, it's not popular, but we're not here to do popular things. On the other hand, for one such action, entering the serious reforms ahead of us certainly takes a lot of energy, a lot of knowledge. What is most important is the need for great support, not only of the citizens, but of the support in the parliament that this government clearly has. While so and while the Government has this particular goal, the way to reform, JS will be one of the parties that will support it on that path, but unlike some, we will not only express our right to declare it, but we are from those parties that are practically on the ground and when it comes to domestic business and when it comes to bringing in different investors or ultimately one concern about a serious social programme, be with you. Once again, JS will support both this budget rebalance and two accompanying laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11552	Thank you. Mr. Nikolic, on what grounds are you answering? (Dejan Nikolic, from town: Replica. You weren't in the O.R. How could you? (Dejan Nikolic, from the scene: I was not in the O.R. because of you. It's not you, Mr. Vulin, he means Mr. Babic's exposure. Mr. Babic did mention his last name but you weren't in the O.R. at the time. (Dejan Nikolic, from the place: Now I'm back. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11553	First of all, I got out of my mind, but I came back because I saw that I was mentioned several times. Thank you for giving me a chance to answer. I'm not one of those who lets other people's tails hang, or I get bills for what I didn't do. They mentioned that they had supplied me with the wrong data, but the figure of 218 billion in 2012 was for public sector employees' expenditures. The first SNS budget in 2013, expenditure on public sector employees, 266 billion. More than 45 billion or over 400m euros in increased expenditure on public sector employees, without increasing salaries. That matches the figures in just a year's time for new employees from 35 to 50,000 people, Mr. Babice. I was talking about inconsistencies. So many times we've heard that everything will be fine in Krupanje. We've heard many times that everything will be fine in Obrenovac by winter. Ask the people of Krupan how many will be left without a roof, and October is the moon? By October, she promised the government that everyone would be in their homes. Ask people today who are in collective accommodations in Obrenovac, who eat pastures and meat cuts, and the winter has already begun, have received a promise until winter that they will be under their roofs. Public debt rises, debt increases. It also grows propaganda. You mentioned Duško Radovic. I must confess, for the first time since I was a child, I doubt Duško Radovic. I don't think everything that grows and needs to grow anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11554	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The Republic has a National MP, Zoran Babic. Please, Mr. Babic, don't mention your last name and not allow Mr. Nikolic's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11555	I don't know why the anxiety, I don't know why the shaking in the voice, I don't know why you know when hate gets so much on a man so much that he starts to tremble. I mean, for what? We're reasonable people, we're adults. As much as anyone will grow and should grow, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are determined, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia certainly did not predetermin the fall and predetermined to hold power in Vojvodina by 6%. When we talk about floods, I will also avoid these poetic things, I spoke a few days ago, but in the main one since May and now it's the end of October, 17,000 solutions and 17,000 people in Serbia the most threatened, those to whom the floods took the most have been helped by the state. I also spoke clearly of schools, as you did not believe me that yesterday a school in Obrenovac would be open, but I also told you about the years behind us, about an earthquake in the Kingdom where people still have no roof over their heads after four or five years. Still people on Dosite Street don't live in buildings because they're not safe, they're not fixed. Where's the money from? Are we going to ask the former mayor Simovic, or are we going to ask the prosecutor's office, or are we going to see how that armature is charged twice, how some of these foundations are invoiced that they're half a meter, and they're actually 30 centimeters away...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11556	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11557	We can only talk about consistency when you decide, Tadic, Djilas, Pajtic, Stefanovic, perhaps Bozovic, in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11558	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11559	Because of the citizens and the people who are monitoring this transmission, I just want to explain the figures you listed. In 2012, there was a change in the methodology of expression. The first digit of 218 includes only revenue from the budget. The second figure in that same year in the rebalancing includes its own income. In that year she grew, revised, from 218 to 249, which is probably what other MPs remember, I got out of the material. So that figure increased from 249 to 258 in 2013 and from 258 to 263 in 2014. The increases are, therefore, nine billion between 2012 and 2013 and the next five billion between 2013 and 2014, not 43. It has passed from the expression of the figure that applied only to the appropriations, to the total funds that include their own revenues. In 2012, this change was made. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: And in 2014? ) It includes everything in 2014. So the comparable numbers are 249, 258 and 263. The initial figure, 218, is the figure from the 2012 budget, which was made according to the old methodology and includes only budgetary resources and not own funds. Thank you. So the increase is only nine billion and five billion, not 43 billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11560	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Guests, I only need one prior note to Mr. Becic. I appreciate the kind of respect he's showing me by introducing me as a doctor professor, but just for the precision of saying I don't have that status at university yet, I have the status of a doctor, so in the future, if necessary, it's enough to say just a doctor doctor, but it doesn't have to. He can only name and last name. It's purely for precision. Today we have a debate on four draft laws. As I understand it here, all members of the government are appointed to represent the Government in the National Assembly. Only two members of the government are present here. I expected all ministers to come, that there would be a Prime Minister here, who was there for a while, now he's gone. There have been some resignations, I don't know if the government may have fallen in the meantime, so there are no ministers? The budget rebalancing is certainly one important issue and I want to offer here, the respected chairman of Vienna, three arguments that make it my opinion that three draft laws of four should not be adopted in this National Assembly. I'm focusing first and foremost on Mr Vujovic. The content of the proposal for a law on temporary adjustment of pension payments, respected by Mr Vujovic, must return to that argument because I am not satisfied with the arguments so far, is not in line with the Constitution, regardless of the opinion of the various institutions of some international organisations. Article 58. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is nevertheless an obstacle to the adoption of this bill. By failing to adopt this proposal, in my court, not only protects the interests, because their interests here today we are overly defending ourselves, but, I think, protecting the principle of rule of law that is defined by Article 3 as one of the basic principles of our Constitution, Mr Vujovic. If, in spite of this argument, this bill is passed, we will submit an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the passed law, because we feel it is wrong to play by the rule of law here. On the other hand, as regards the proposal for a law on temporary regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, I agree, Commissioner Vujovic, that the overall public sector salary fund should be reduced, but not in the manner provided by the Serbian government for this bill. The easiest, gentlemen, is to cut the wages linearly and those who are valuable to those who are not worthy and those who have been brought in by parties and employees. We thought it was unfair. I suppose justice and justice is a principle that should also lead us to act in this National Assembly? Our proposal was to first register this army of party employees in the last 10 years. According to a certain record, there could be 100,000 of them. These people don't need to work anymore. If we have less than 100,000 people, then this salary fund can be fairer, Mr. Vujovic, to deploy. Then it's possible that some valuable people in the public sector get a little more pay, and those who are lazy, they get paid. This is how one terrible injustice is introduced, and I don't think we should adopt unfair laws here. The third thing, when we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, Mr Vujovicu, you say – savings. I don't think it's savings if, here, I've been reading this data, it can't be savings if the total government spending is up by nine billion 400 and a few million. So I'm saying this -- it's being saved on wages in an unfair way, it's being saved on pensions in an unfair and not legal way, and the government is wasting. Here, there's Mr. Vulin, there's no ministry that hasn't spent more money than was planned. Gentlemen, I think we need to talk here and talk about responsibility for poorly-led politics. With these laws, what do we have? Infringement of the rule of law, we have injustice, we have irresponsibility in political conduct, and now it is asked of the MPs to vote for it. Never, dear gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11562	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11563	Thank you, Your Honor. What do you say? Today we have heard a light of baseless accusations and here is another one in a series of charges when someone does not know the elemental state of Serbia that was five or six years ago, and apparently they do not know the situation as it is today. Listening to this debate today, especially from opposition representatives, we are aware of the fact that they have neither reality nor contact with Serbian citizens. They didn't have it even when they were in power, because they were living in those functions, having good privileges, destroying our economy, and apparently not today, when the Serbian Progressive Party, headed by Aleksandra Vukic, wants to achieve and implement reforms that will make a better one, don't give any solutions, except for baseless accusations that are based on what I don't know. So, on the one hand, they have contributed to the fact that this situation in Serbia is escalating, that there is indeed one difficult economic situation, and on the other hand they offer no solutions. However, the president of one opposition party is trying to run-ins, without any preparation, to announce something to the public, to offer some solutions, but it is indeed unserious, because he says he is ready to support the council with all measures that avoid wage cuts and pensions, and he has not offered any. That's really scandalous. No man has offered. On the other hand, these laws that we passed back five months of praise to all, worldwide, in the EU, in which opposition representatives advocated and fought to implement reforms implemented by countries in the EU when they also had a fall in economic terms, as Serbia has. They say fairy tale, and is it a fairy tale when you realistically announce, not lying to your people, that we're going to cut pensions and wages, that it's not a good situation, that it can be better? Well, are those fairy tales? The fairy tales were in 2008 and 2009, when someone said that the global economic crisis would actually be a chance for Serbia. That's what Boris Tadic said, so said Bozidar Djelic, although Dinkic said, but all together said that the global economic crisis would be a chance for Serbia, that the global economic crisis would bypass, watch out for miracles, Serbia and China, and what did we get? In 2009, we received the biggest drop in gross social product, then in 2010 and 2011 growth by only 1%, in 2012, again experienced a decline. The foreign trade deficit increased by 500m euros during Cvetkovic's government. In 2009, industrial production fell by as much as 12.6%. That's the facts. These are facts that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia must hear. Serbia's public debt, we have repeated this many times today, has been increased from 2008 to 2012 by six billion euros and we have no objection to the increase of public debt. We wouldn't mind if Serbia really provided such soils that would attract investment, invest money, hire people and move forward. However, someone has designed some elections, pensions and salaries have increased completely unfounded, and that is why we are in the situation we are in today. I ask the question -- let's make one real difference between the Democratic Party, one and the other, and the Serbian Progressive Party. Three years ago, those who had to do this kind of reform didn't do it. Why? Because they weren't thinking about Serbia's future, they were thinking about their short-term future, how to hold their positions for a few months or a few more years and thus buy social peace. Today, the Serbian Progressive Party is thinking of Serbia's future in the long run, even if the price is a loss of choice in 2018 or whenever they happen. That's the difference. We're not God-given to sit in this House. Let other people sit here, new people, but in a successful Serbia, modernised Serbia, Serbia that has hope, Serbia that has a chance. I am convinced and convinced as a young man that we are doing the right thing today. If not for pensioners who are now receiving pensions from the Republic of Serbia, they are people who have raised this country and they know what it means to suffer both difficult and painful things in our country, because they have suffered completely unfounded under you. Today, we want these reforms to implement something that will allow the next generations to stay in their country, that those people who finish college or high school in this country get a job and be financed from real income, not from expensive loans. Unemployment in 2012 reached a record 26.5%. In 2008, this unemployment rate was 13.1%. So much for success, because today you're criticizing a 1% increase in employment. How can you not be ashamed? How are you not ashamed to criticise any increase in employment, and even if it is 0.1%, since we have such good results from 2008 to 2012, where unemployment has increased almost double? But these are your results -- public debt from 8.78 billion to 14.35 billion. I repeat that someone at the time claimed it was a fairy tale in which Serbian citizens lived. Someone claimed it would be a chance for Serbia, a chance for Serbia and China, and all others would be affected by the world's economic crisis. We don't use such a policy and we don't run such a policy. On the other hand, while you systematically destroyed our economy, no one was afraid to have certain affairs that rocked our country, and these are affairs that affected the city of Belgrade, and then we wonder where the money is and where hundreds of millions of euros are. Well, remember only various affairs in the City of Belgrade, from underground containers, from three times the overpaid bridge, via the purchase of the Inex building from the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia to the purchase of foreign buses worth 60m euros, destroying the Serbian economy. That's where the money was thrown, where the money was spent, and today the question is where is the money for our country. If we are already talking about your development plan, I have watched the Democratic Party's plan for Serbia's development, among other things, say - it is necessary to build or form a development bank of Serbia, but I am asking a question - what about the Vojvodina Development Bank? And there are some 20.30m euros embezzled, Azotara Pancevo, various other affairs that have taken over hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros from Serbian citizens. During that time, while a major corruption took place in Belgrade, where we inherited 14 billion dinar debts as a commitment, today Belgrade as the capital by the end of the year will reduce its liabilities to only six billion dinars. I am proud to say that Belgrade City has not been in charge of a single euro since the interim authority took over the city of Belgrade, and then Sinisa Mali as mayor and his team. Also, all projects are funded from non-borrowing funds. It is a responsible policy towards generations to come, because our goal is never to see a situation in which someone will suffer because someone has implemented an irresponsible policy and there, dear colleagues, differs the Serbian Progressive Party from the Democratic Party. And in statements by the opposition's representatives, we often see that there is no empathy with the citizens of Serbia because they are hard to live on, but only phrases, flossules without substance, without any arguments, based very often on incomplete or incorrect information. On the one hand, we can accept that, but, gentlemen, what do you offer as an alternative? Are you offering Mr. Pitiæ as an alternative? Do you, as an alternative, offer Mr. Gilas again? Just tell us what the alternative is, how are you going to help Serbia move forward, since you have no proposal, except that you're just criticizing it, and you were in that stew that cooked it? I hope that soon some new, honest, honest young people will also appear in the Democratic Party, who may be able to offer some answers to these questions and who may at some point create an even better plan for Serbia, but while you represent the opposition, I think there is nothing to say. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11564	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. Professor Vladimir Pavicevic wants a word. On what grounds? Mr. Pavicevic, I listened very carefully to Mr. Jovicic. [[Vladimir Pavićevic, from place: Article 104. right to replica.]] He didn't mention your name at any time. Only if you don't recognize yourself in Belgrade's abuses, in the purposeless spending of money and everything else, and I can't recognize you. Here's a word on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Ministers Vujovic and Vulina, the esteemed guests, I believe that he is a injured member of the 104th because you are not... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: give me one word.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11566	Mr. Djurishic, you're so nervous, you've been throwing all day. Please don't do this. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11567	I'm getting MPs from the Progressive Party, I don't know what this is about. So, Article 104 is injured, Mr. Becic, unless you give me the right to a replica, because in his speech at the outset, Mr. Jovicic said that I was the one who was speaking critically of the bill. Ask Mr. Jovicic if he said that. If Mr. Jovicic says he didn't, I'm giving up the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11568	Mr. Jovicic, did you mention Mr. Pavicevic? (Alexander Jovicic, from the place: I did not. You're not mentioned, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11569	Did he say that I spoke unfoundedly? Ask him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11570	I just asked him and he said he didn't mention your name and name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11571	We'll ask together. Mr. Jovicic, did you think of me when you said he spoke unfoundedly?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11572	Mr Pavicevic, this is too serious a debate for the citizens of Serbia to hold a debate here in such a way. You don't have a chance to replicate. I, as chairman, interpret that you have no option, because he did not mention your name and name. Please allow us to continue. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11573	It's very short to explain and answer the question. I can speak on behalf of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. We haven't spent any more money than we anticipated, and not only that, but there are savings that may not be seen in the budget, but I'll give you an example. Last year, there was a debt to maternity care of some 800 million dinars, which was not covered by budget rebalancing. We, in this period, have completely reconciled it from existing means to this rebalance. So, we didn't get any new funding, but we redistributed, saved on investments and some other things and paid 800 million dinars of debt, paid what was in the year before us, which wasn't covered by budget rebalance. Just for everyone's sake, since it's very important, the economic class 472, which is most important to us, as you can see, is exactly the same. These are the monthly rights in the fields of social, combat, disability, etc., paid in the day, not a single day late and not spent any more, but no less.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11574	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11575	Thank you. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, in these few minutes, I will try to add an explanation to why the party will vote against the budget together for Serbia, as well as our coalition partners Green Serbia and NDS. To make it clear to you, the budget is to paint a policy of pre-election promises, plans, the ability of a government, i.e. The ruling coalitions in this case. In 2014 this budget envisioned a budget deficit of 180 billion, which means that the state was missing 180 billion dinars at the time it was planning the entire budget year to function normally. With this budget rebalance, the deficit is increasing by another 40 billion, so we will have to iron out this year, according to people, a 220 billion debt at the end of this year to have zero this financial year. What is the basic problem and what we have pointed out, especially when we have passed the law, I will remind you, in June of the shift of 2% of the contributions from the position of health care to the pension position, that I was right, to my great regret, and that this way we redistributed the money brought the Health Fund to a serious problem and the Republic Health Insurance Fund, with very serious problems by the end of the year, and the question is how it will work next year. Here's why. We were told by the Ministry of Finance that the savings were made in public procurements centralised by the Republic Fund and that these 30 billion saved on purchases will be able to be used for pensions and there will be no problem in financing health. This budget rebalance says that on basic health, you will take down two billion and 700, in clinical health, three billion and 400, in rehabilitation, i.e. You'll take down 300 million dinars at the Department of Public Health, that's laboratory services, you'll take down 400 million, you'll take down 400 million in dentistry, and that'll put health care into question, because health and illness can't be...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11576	Time. You had two minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11577	I had three minutes and 30 seconds. I watched Mr. Petrovic speak for 11 minutes, and we have 14 minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11578	Mr. Bradich, it's right on the computer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11579	Let me finish. One question to Mr. Finance Minister – will you explain Article 8. Budget law and Article 5. The salary bill, because according to that, civil servants' salaries will be cut 23%, not 10%?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11580	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11581	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen, is not controversial, we all know that the economic situation in Serbia is very complex and difficult. The people are getting harder and harder to live. The number of unemployed is extremely large, and unfortunately, a large number of pensioners support their children, and even grandchildren, from their pensions. I don't think there are any citizens in this Serbia who don't want Serbia to move forward, which would make every citizen better. It is clear to all of us that this progress can only be realised through the economic strengthening of the state, eliminating the gray economy, strengthening the legal system of the state, regulating the tax system, eliminating bribes, corruption, crime and all the other measures that follow this society. I want to realize that I am convinced that this government wants Serbia's trend of donation to a positive direction, even at the cost of taking unpopular measures such as reducing wages and pensions. That is why the United Pensioners' Party of Serbia has supported all the measures it has taken since the time this government was formed, recognising that they are aimed at strengthening and improving the country's general situation. I know and I believe that no one has a magic wand that can turn this thing around in a very short time. It is a long process that requires time, effort, effort and hence the reduction of wages and pensions I see as a necessary measure in the direction to help reduce deficits in the budget. I know and I claim there are no big salaries and pensions, there are only small salaries and pensions. I know, and also that nobody's happy because there's been a cut in wages and pensions, and I'm not happy, but I see as a necessary evil, if I have to cut off my finger to save my hand, then I'm really going to risk my finger. Therefore, I think it is better in this situation to give up on behalf of the state of one part of its income, provided that clearly the Government takes all the measures to significantly improve in the next three, four years, especially if we have in mind that wage cuts and pensions are a temporary measure. I agree with many here who say that reducing pensions may be an unconstitutional category, perhaps many will sue, seek the protection of their rights, and, intimately, I, as a man, as an ordinary viewer, would probably behave the same way. However, I am in this congregation, I cannot, without thinking with my own head and thinking about what way to give the state a chance. For these reasons, by sacrificing all of this, I believe and believe that many citizens will understand this measure as necessary to move towards a better path. Surely in the process of these measures, especially about reducing pensions, I want to say that there's nothing ideal, there's nothing we can do, a fair system, these measures, no matter what part of the pensioner with the biggest incomes, but I want to say that there will be certain dissatisfactions. I'll give you a few examples. Take an example of two families, one family with two pensions of 25,000 and another family with one pension of 50,000. This 25,000-dollar family will not be reduced, and a family that has one pension of 50,000 will be reduced by 5,800 dinars. A similar situation is an example of a family with two pensions of 50,000 and one pension of 100,000. So those who have two pensions per 50,000 will be about to be reduced by around 11,600 dinars, and a family that has one pension of 100,000 pension cuts will reach about 19,000 dinars. That's the difference of nearly 7,000 dinars. We don't have a social card. It would be good if we could follow households on the social map so that we can see what the overall state of the household is and that we are therefore taking appropriate measures, but in this situation it is impossible and these are weaknesses that arise from the very system of our disorganised system, as many things have not been arranged for us. But it's impossible in this situation, and these are weaknesses that arise from the very system of things that we haven't been arranged for. There's something I think maybe we should have seen differently. Maybe that's what the government had in mind. I believe it is in the interest of all Serbian citizens to be prosperous. In that sense, if so, it is not good that only a part of the citizens in some way contributes to the elimination or improvement of the situation, to the burden of the whole crisis. From there I think you should have seen how all citizens, according to their possibilities, should have seen through so-called. Some solid tax contribute to solving these problems. Please, we have heard here that this reduction in wages and pensions applies only to pensioners and public sector employees. I'm asking why there wouldn't be a pension reduction in the private sector. I know you don't have a legal basis, so I'll say something else. Please, this Serbia needs a pensioner as well as a public sector employee, so should that private and entrepreneurs and one who works in the private sector. Do they need education, health care, do they need roads, railways, etc? In some ways, we all have to work together to solve certain problems. I know that through the law the government can't bring down wages in the private sector for the reason it's a private matter and the one that works, but it seems to me, I may not be right, if we passed a law on solidarity taxation, we might have been able to find a way for those employed in the private sector with large incomes, in a way, to tax and make a contribution. I just want to say one example, that was somewhere in 2008 when Ulof Palma, the Swedish prime minister, made a six-million-dollar contract with an American firm and when he finished his job, he brought in only three million and left three million in America. At the end of the year, the tax collector came to the prime minister and told him – Mr. Prime Minister, you did not pay the tax on six million dollars. The prime minister answered him -- I didn't bring it into the country, I only took three million. It is your right to enter or not, but on behalf of this country and this country you have created that obligation and you are obliged to pay taxes on all six million and you can do with them whatever you want. Through that example, I would like to say that we must seek equal burden on all citizens, no matter where they work and whether they are in private, state, pensioners, if we will, and surely we want this country to be prosperous, rich, that our children have a secure future. I don't want to support my children, as no parent wants to support their children if he's trained them, took them on a trip, as I don't want my children to support me tomorrow, because I've earned that pension by my work. I want a country like that, but then let's do it and knowingly give up something. It will all fail and be free if the government does not realize what it is up to, and I have confidence that it will and that we will make progress in that direction. I'm sorry the Prime Minister isn't here, but I need to say two more things. The first thing is about increasing pensions in 2008. In some ways, I don't believe that he tended to say that wages and pensions somehow contributed to the collapse of the state as a system. You know, financially speaking, it might be, from this point of view. But I want to tell you that in 2004 and 2005, the measures taken by the then government were in a practical direction that we were then talking about the social genocide of pensioners. You can imagine where the pensioners would be if, by any chance, their 70 percent pensions were lower. I want to tell you that then some Swiss formula was introduced, and I don't know what the average pension was to 40% of the average salary, and the goal was to bring it down to 30, or about 29 to 30%. In other words, it was about creating a pension as a social category, not as an economic category, which we otherwise advocate, and we believe that pension is still an economic category, due to past work. I just want to do it that way, not to justify it, it's not my goal to justify that government either, but I just want to say that we as a party came into power in 2008, but it wasn't our goal to rule. Our goal was to protect this large population of pensioners, who was really on the verge of existence. I remember well those days as they were and I must tell you that it was a very difficult time for the pensioners. The next question may be answered by Minister Vujovic or Minister Vulin, but I wish the prime minister were there. I have a feeling he doesn't know about this problem, and maybe I'm wrong. I must tell you that I expected that today, with this set of laws, there will be a law on turning military pensioners' debt into public debt. I want to remind you that military pensioners have been slow to increase pensions since 2008, which means six years. That dispute was won in the Constitutional Court. The dispute was won in the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court confirmed and returned the PIO Fund to resolution. Now I open the question here – who is responsible for disrespecting the Constitutional Court's decision? Why is the Constitutional Court's decision not respected? Why isn't this problem solved? This is a very serious problem. I know it's big money, and I've talked about this problem many times in this assembly and prayed that we could simply find a solution not to grow debt, not to raise interest, not to raise court costs. I want to tell you that it's a debt...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11582	Mr. Arsenović, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11583	Let me just finish my sentence. ... That's why I'm asking the government to solve this problem as soon as possible. I'm looking for any solution, or positive or negative, but I don't think it leads to anything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11584	I thank Mr. Arsenovic. The word of the people is the letter of Mr. Alexander Jerkov, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milisab Petronijevic. Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11585	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I'd just like to ask the minister to consult with his associates at some point in time when it's not the National Assembly's meeting, as I can begin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11586	I'm asking the government's representatives to make it possible to speak to the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11587	Thank you. When we look at the rebalancing we're talking about today, what's the first conclusion is – less for citizens and more for SNS. Less for citizens because they reduce salaries and pensions, and more for SNS because the allocations for political parties are increasing. The pronunciation that DS adopted this law in 2011, which is why it has not been changed, implies two things. First, it was five months since May 2012 until October 2014. Secondly, in five months the law could not be changed, which in the case of the Labour Act and many other laws we had the opportunity to see that the law could change in 24 hours, let alone two and a half years. In addition to what we can see in the rebalancing process, today we have had the opportunity to hear from the prime minister that for the sixth time in Serbia's history, for the first time in history we have a plan and economic measure. This wage cuts today are not the first economic measures this government is implementing over citizens. We had the introduction of a famous solidarity tax. We've never heard of the effects of that measure. We've had an increase in VAT, and VAT is paid by citizens. The effects of that measure are that the VAT charge has been reduced. We've never heard of the economic effects of an incredible revolutionary measure to be done since half-eight in the morning instead of eight in the morning. When we see what this says, we have a few things. First, after increasing VAT rates, VAT revenues are lower by 32 billion dinars or 270m euros. It can only mean two things -- or citizens are spending less and less because they have less and less, or in this country, smuggling and the gray economy are booming, and they're probably both right. Secondly, after the increase in excise excise excise tax revenues are lower by 6.4 billion dinars, although the prime minister here today has solemnly claimed, in a number of other non-truths he has made, that excise revenues are higher. Only this reduction in VAT income and the reduction in excise revenues is greater than the overall effect of the reduction in wages and pensions that the government is carrying out. To be clear, DS is not opposed to austerity measures, but these are not austerity measures. These are pay cuts and pensions, so that small wages are reduced, and big wages are increased. That's not something the DS says, that's what the prime minister said here today. We can't talk about saving when the government spends more and more on its costs, when subsidies are higher by 13 billion dinars, and the net debt corridor has increased by 80%, the number of staff in corridors by 50%, and the average profit in the company is 144,000 dinars. This brings us to this famous profit reduction in the public sector, Mr Vujovicu. It's really the easiest thing to do. It's the easiest thing to say – everyone takes off the same thing. You know, they're not all the same. Not all of them are the same because bus passengers have a higher salary than medical doctors and because agency maids have a higher salary than teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools. That's why it can't be reduced to all the same, and it's your fault that you didn't introduce pay classes that would make such an injustice impossible. You have an associate, Mr Vujovicu, named Miroslav Vunčić, who seems to me to be a junior advisor in your ministry, who yesterday on the Education Committee explained these measures and who was the only one from the government who told the truth why wages and pensions are being cut today. He uttered a sentence, and this can be seen in the stenographic notes from the Committee, that education payments are reduced because there were unplanned costs due to the extraordinary parliamentary elections. That's what we need to tell the citizens. Therefore, expenditures have been increased due to early elections, and extraordinary elections have only been organised to make Alexander Vukic prime minister. Let the teachers and teachers in Serbia know that they are being paid to reduce that Aleksandar Vukic would be prime minister and that is the only truth that you can tell us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11588	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. National MP Zoran Babic, right on line. Here you go. In a negative context, the party is mentioned. The party, at the beginning of your presentation, is mentioned in a negative context. Mr. Sutanovac, you don't have to be everyone in your parliamentary group, a lawyer. Miss Jerkov is doing very well. So the party mentioned is in a negative context. Here you go, Mr. Babic. You've got a two-minute line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11589	I'm gonna ask you to just give me back these 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11590	Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11591	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Much has been said that somehow in the manner and jargon of today's debate that came from the former regime and is not based either in relation or in the truth. The law on financing political activities was passed by the Democratic Party. The law on the financing of political activities, political parties is the law of the DS because the law, as well as the Rules of Procedure, as well as the series of other laws, has been created solely for the sake of profit and survival in power, and for the sake of the party that created the law. The laws must be respected. No one's above the law. What I would like to ask the previous speaker, and that is – why, when and when that law did not bother them because they received millions from the budget on the basis of the number of MPs, why did they not think about helping people in the King? When the government couldn't help them, when people lived in tents for years, and now they live in buildings that are insecure, why didn't they put their hand in their pocket, in that bank of millions in the Kruney Street, and they said, "Here, we'll build a house, we'll secure someone, here we'll act socially responsible. The Serbian Progressive Party which did not vote for the law, which did not bring it back then from its small, modest lives that we have and which we have, and then, and now, those lives that have not changed, we have singled out 33 million dinars and made six houses in the Kingdom, a total area of 705 square meters, but it was therefore not difficult for DS to enter the "Vojvodine Development Bank" and to receive, on an honorable word, a million credit that, I believe, is paying off today if it has something to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11592	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Miss, I apologize, but please allow me, you will be entitled to the word only that, Miss Jerkov, you have signed up, you have no right to a replica has a gentleman... Excuse me, please. (The People's MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, from the post: He asked me directly, he asked the previous speaker a question. ) Only DS was mentioned and it is the same basis as Mr. Babic got... Let me say it, please. The right to the replica was given to Mr. Babic because the SNS was mentioned. The right to reply, to mention the DS itself, has Mr Stefanovic who also signed up and will get the word. No one has mentioned you personally, and you have no opportunity to speak. Here's an advantage for Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11593	Your Honored Chairman, I believe you have violated Article 104(4). Rules of Procedure – Replica cannot last longer than two minutes. The previous speaker spoke on the basis of a two-minute and 21-second line, and that wouldn't be terrible if it had happened once, but it's been happening today all day. When Members of the ruling majority replicate, you can look at the notes of each replica, I've watched time every time, speak for two and a half minutes and longer, and when the replica is used by opposition MPs for a minute and 57 seconds you're warning on time and asking for the discussion to end, all day long. You've been putting us in an unequal position here in the Assembly all day, not giving us the right based on the Rules of Procedures that we have, to talk about everything that's on the agenda today. I ask you to have the same archaic against all MPs in this room. Don't run away from the dialogue. Those few seconds or minutes you've been denying us here all day won't change anything. The prime minister left here, he says, has obligations. The obligations are to perform on RTS and speak there I don't know how long... And when will someone from the opposition get as much time to say something? [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11594	Mr. Djurishic, it is my duty to explain whether I have hurt the Rules of Procedure, following your explanation. You are witnesses, like when someone says, first of all, I don't know why you didn't replicate once during my presidency, you didn't win, you didn't get a chance to replicate, you represent the entire opposition, I don't know if you got an approval from Mr. Stefanovic for that. Also, you saw and witnessed that I also warned the previous speaker for two minutes that time had expired, as I warn other speakers for two minutes. Sometimes it's tolerated to have someone finish the sentence, and sometimes you can't stop someone for two minutes, and that might take a little longer, but there's no difference between MPs position and opposition. (People MP Marko Djurisic, from the post: Please vote on this, you did not ask me if I was satisfied? ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Veroljub Arsic according to the Rules of Procedure. The assembly will plead in voting day, Mr. Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11595	Mr. Chairman, I'm looking before my colleague Babic had the right to a replica, so he doesn't want to drag you into the traps around the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Namely, I believe that a colleague who spoke from the DS violated Article 107. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. When it comes to this younger counselor, it's probably someone with Mr. Pantic's internship or whatever we can say. The other thing, um, that's not true, is only one dictator in the history of human civilization said that elections were not necessary, because they were expensive, and that was Adolf Hitler. If this sentence, that elections were not necessary, defends dictatorship, I don't know what else, but that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11596	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arsic. Do you want the assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) Mr Đurišić, before I give you my word for breach of the Rules of Procedure, just to inform you that your MP group has spoken before that, Mr Bradic has spoken for more than two minutes. You, as president of the parliamentary group, have spoken in total for two minutes. So we've tolerated you from saying more if you want to finish your sentence. I had an insight into the minute and we see that you've exceeded your time in two minutes. What you're contesting to others, don't say it's being denied to you. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11597	I will now point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you did earlier, giving the word to Vice President Arsic, Article 103. Namely, the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly, which is in progress and immediately after the injury has been done. Mr. Arsic spoke of the injury committed by two speakers before he reported the injury. So, Mr. Babic has already replicated his colleague Jerkov, I pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and only then did Mr. Arsic seek, has he completely passed a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure. So an eclectic example, and not to mention what his injury looked like... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11598	Mr. Djurishich, please. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: Please don't turn off my microphone, let me speak for two minutes.) Let me, I'll let you carry on, just let me answer if I can. Just so you can explain it all the way, if I can say what I wanted to say. So, I couldn't do it for you, because you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure from the scene. I couldn't give Mr. Arsic in time, he answered much earlier, from you, maybe in that part I broke what I had given before you, but to him, so I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure in that part. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11599	Thank you, Your Honor, for bringing you into this story. So I'm the one who advertised Article 103's injury. The Rules of Procedure, which states that the violation of the Rules of Procedure can be sought directly after the injury done, and Mr. Arsic received the word long after the injury was allegedly done. Well, considering the injury, he wasn't talking about the injury at all, but he was replicating his colleague the way he wanted it to be. I won't do it. I will try to deal with your goodwill and your right, as you like to say here, and in my case never allow me the right to reply, but I will not give up every time I think I have the right, and in this case I wanted to point out that the injured member of Section 103, when the chairman gave the word to Mr. Arsic, who pointed to a breach of the Rules of Procedure which was not done right before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11600	I'll be honest, I don't get it. I watched the transmission as the Serbian citizens are interested in listening to this part. I don't know what you're talking about. Did you say that in the name of the minority, I really don't understand how you asked for a replica? I'll give you a line, but I'll break the Rules of Procedure. Then we're in the debate. That's not in the Rules of Procedure. When you made the Rules of Procedure, you felt that the debate was not necessary at all. It's been erased in this House. That I've violated the Rules of Procedure, me or Mr. Becic, everything is entirely relevant. You're forcing us to respect the Rules of Procedure to break the Rules of Procedure, that's the point. There are mistakes, of course there are mistakes, but I don't understand why you're looking for a replica now for something that you weren't directly involved in, nothing. Now you said, let's take out the stenogram. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: I did not ask for a replica.]] Now you've been talking about it all the time. I'm going to ask for the right to replication. I'm sorry, I don't have the strength, I don't have a completely unthinkable debate, believe me, I'm watching a transmission. I've been in this for a long time, and I can think that the citizens of Serbia just don't understand anything. Tell me if you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, all members, so we can proceed. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. ) I accept, let the breach of the Rules of Procedure be sought by MP Djurisic to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103. The only value of this Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry to say, is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which can now be used, to the point of unconsciousness. It has nothing to do with the violations of the Rules of Procedure, and there is no such thing in any European Parliament. Not at all. We'll be working until midnight, up to two, three, just a little will to show up by the MPs to work. Come on, come on. I don't understand-- come on, come on. I guess that's part of the courtesy you've been calling out for all day. Come on, come on, pitching and stuff. I guess that's the courtesy of the information you're going to bring in one day when you're in power. I guess. So, we're going to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure and Mr. Becic and myself, completely anyone to chair. Alexander Vulin, Minister. I'd like to ask the Ministers to come back on the subject and talk a little bit about the agenda points. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I received the word. I don't know what you got, I'm gonna take a break to make some order here. Article 112 allows me to make order or we don't need a chairman, to see what it would look like then. Mr. Micunovic was president, this has never really been. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: bad leadership.) ) Not bad leadership, but we'll consider it one day when we put it on the agenda, so we'll talk all day about what it looks like to the citizens of Serbia. It's probably someone who's happy in the O.R. that looks like it doesn't look like anything to the citizens of Serbia. I apologize to everyone. The word is Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11601	I'd like to continue with the session, as far as I can influence it. I want to answer the question – what are the effects of the solidarity tax? It says in the budget, it could be read, but just because you know that citizens don't read the Budget Law, then you can say something like that, so whoever hears, who doesn't hear, who knows if they'll watch afterwards. Eleven billion five hundred million dinars, period. That's how it was, and it's in the budget, and I don't know why it's necessary to make a topic of it at all and say that it's never told us what the effects are. Here, these are the effects. This is now a completely human remark. The amount of hate you're shining on Wolfie, I really don't understand it. Wait, now it's Vukic's fault that there were elections, which led to a reduction in the salaries of educators. So you know it's an absolute, brutal, rude lie and it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11602	Minister, give your contribution to discussing the essence, please as a member of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11603	That's right, I just have to say that I suppose the election in Vojvodina will never be questioned in order to keep the money down.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11604	Minister, we're not gonna talk politics. Please, I won't allow MPs to speak beyond this subject, I won't allow any members of the government, please. Minister Vujovic, I hope you do not want anything wider than the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11605	I don't usually do that. Let me explain. Eleven-and-a-half billion on the side of two texts given to MPs under economic classification 745, to explain how that figure was received. Twelve billion was a plan for non-tax revenue from solidarity taxes. It was corrected to 10.5 billion because it was not achieved 100% because the state does not have 100% control mechanisms in public enterprises and some indirect users of budget funds, and then the figure due to the transition to a new system of income reduction was corrected in realisation, so in one month, the implementation of this new law before you means the law on changes in the account of wages and earnings. That corrected figure is 11.5 billion. So this is the figure that includes the balance tax effect by November of the month and then the effect of applying this law by the end of the year, so in one month de facto, that's the first digit I wanted to comment on. As for the other figures mentioned, the next comment just to make. So there is no causal, causal-related network in the budget and economics between budget allocations to fund political parties and any pay items. As you know, these locations are protected and they are determined. The allocation for the financing of political parties is determined by the law that you have all brought together in this House. So if anyone has any objections to whether that figure corresponds to the provisions of the law, we can look for interpretation, anything else, I don't think there's any basis in the budget in the economic analysis, to connect those categories. As far as the professor's salary or any other salary is concerned, they are, as you know by the provisions of the law here before you, amendments and additions to the law, a particular formula in Article 5 and some specific situations by amending Article 8. I hope we've made that clear, if we can't further clarify that since both laws come in, they work at the same time, and in some parts we need to have an explicit basis in the budget, which is why in those three cases the basis is written, otherwise it's not. Finally, a comment on VAT. Last year, when the budget was prepared, it was based on available data for the first 10 months of 2013. At that point, the realisation of VAT in total, which contains three categories, is one VAT on imports, which is a stable category, since there is a very low potential, i.e. the risks of collection, it was at the level of October 318.4 billion dinars and based on these figures was projected by the end of the year to achieve 380.6 billion. In the 2014 budget, not only was the VAT increase projected in line with the then projected growth of the nominal social product, but a certain reduction in the grey economy was projected and a figure of 430 billion dinars emerged in the budget. This number has not been reached for several reasons. One, as I said, was the reduction in the nominal VAT that was down to 3,733,000, so after the adjusted budget calculation, but the real transactions, the ones affecting the collection of VAT, were less than that. The second factor that affected all of this is what the prime minister said, which I said on many occasions, including the board and including in the media, which is the decline in the efficiency of collecting VAT in the country. We've already figured that out. We're just starting and that's one of the four pillars we're talking about. I don't want to deceive or seduce anyone. There are four pillars where one important pillar is the return of income on that path of increase that corresponds to our capacity, social product and everything else. Therefore, we expect that by the end of this year, based on trends in the collection of excise duties and VAT, we will return to the trend of the line that was earlier, means increased collection, and that in the following year we will achieve better results, and from then we will talk as part of the 2015 budget. It will be a combination of short-term measures and a combination of tax administration reform, where your co-operation and citizens' co-operation are crucial. As Dusan Petrovic put it nicely, fiscal discipline cannot be achieved unless all people actively participate in it. Therefore, I expect it to be a matter that is not political, a matter that is a matter of national interest. The better we get in income, the less we'll need to cut expenses and cut expenses. Moreover, I can tell you one additional piece of information. In our talks with the Fund so far, we have agreed that we will be able to use all the extraordinary revenue increases to do exactly the things you're talking about, which is the return of capital expenditure, hopefully effective projects at the level we need to prepare for the private sector, in order to achieve those things, infrastructure projects, end those we started and start those new ones that are very important for Serbia's export side, especially in agriculture and all other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11606	Thank you. Dr. Blagoje Bradic, I don't understand why you're picking up. Your task force has wasted its time. You've been talking longer, there's anyone here doubting the count, a few minutes longer than the overrun. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. Who are you replicating? I don't get it. You can't replicate out of the clear peace of mind, Minister. You know how replicas go. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: You ask yourself and answer yourself. Thank you very much. SPS MP Milisav Petronijevic has the right to speak after a long time. The world is not just about a few MPs in parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11607	President-in-Office, honourable ministers, honourable MPs, if you don't mind, I'd like to talk to you about the agenda points. Today at the National Assembly session, the budget rebalance for 2014 is on the agenda with three accompanying laws to serve the realisation of the rebalancing. Today it is on the agenda and reality, seriousness, responsibility, present and future of Serbia. For these very reasons, and in this context, the measures proposed today need to be observed. When it comes to budget rebalancing, I would like to say briefly that he has shown the practical, real state in which Serbia is at the moment, a situation where nothing is hiding, a situation where key problems are recognised, where the government has identified key problems, where he offers answers to clear, courageous and realistic, a rebalance that is the introduction to the new budget and a three-year financial consolidation programme in Serbia. I'm out, real. A realistic budget means it paints real life in Serbia. We can write whatever we want in the budget -- nice, great, list of good wishes, but life will go beyond that. That's why I point out his reality. The second thing I want to point out is that the rebalance is also talking about the economic policy that the government is going to be leading by the end of the year. On page 10, it writes – the economic policy that the government will lead to by the end of 2014 will be directed towards the continuation of the financial consolidation, notably the consolidation of budgetary expenditures, mostly through nominal wage cuts and pensions, the continuation of restructuring and privatisation of state-owned enterprises and the implementation of structural reforms. The goal is to establish a business environment for structural reforms that will allow foreign and domestic institutions to grow, accelerate, restructure the economy, create conditions for new employment, and that is the goal. So the goal is to start the economy, to strengthen the economy, to create conditions for new employment, especially for young people. Why did I point this out? Because today it dominates the issue of wage cuts and pensions. I mean, that's not the point. It's just one in a series of measures to get to the main goal. When these measures are proposed, and a distinguished colleague of Dr. Diana Vukomanovic has shown a clear view of the Socialist Party of Serbia that both as part of the government and as a responsible party will take responsibility and give support to these measures, I will not repeat that, but I would like to point out the following. When we gave it up, we had the following in mind, and that's the reality. The reality is that the most talk is about wages and pensions. That's normal. That is the problem of both economic and social and political problems when wages and pensions are reduced. We're not hiding anything here. These are difficult measures. It's something no one likes. Well, the government doesn't like it when it has to propose such measures, but they are necessary to just create the possibility of both salaries and pensions being regular, to ensure stability over a long period of time. That should have insight when talking about this topic. What's safe? It is certainly next, that wages in Serbia are mostly low. I don't think that's a lot of pay. It's a big cost for the people who'll be concerned about it. For some, it is a lot, but we must say and admit, and that is the reality in Serbia, that the situation in which Serbia's economy is in an even more difficult state and there is no such money, there is will, there is desire. He's got good wishes, but he's got no money. All of these measures should also be observed from these angles. It's just that our economy has been destroyed by robbery privatisation, the wrong economic system. Today in Serbia, there is no one to produce. There's no one to make money. And that, on the one hand, is reality, and on the other hand, the reality is that we spend more than we have. Is there a question just for how long? You see, exactly what she said to this government is support - no, we will no longer eat the present and the future, especially young people in Serbia. We want to take action now and now. That's why he has our support on it. Finally, a very important issue -- a consolidation of public finances -- is listed in the government's programme as one of the three pillars of reforms this year, with consolidation and reform of the public sector and reform of the economic environment, to reach the main goal, and the main goal is to create conditions to strengthen the economy in Serbia, to strengthen production, to strengthen what makes money. Then there's going to be more GDP, then there's more to share, then there's going to be an automatic and percentage of debt, the debt will be lower, because this percentage now that's high is, among other things, because GDP is low. I just want to say that the government here has defined that it is doing it through spending cuts and income increases, spending cuts, as much as necessary, so that it could spend what it has, and not what it doesn't have, and we've given support here, but it has to apply to all areas, to all activities, to everyone who makes expenditure in the state. It is our approach that the most to endure is the one who has the most, the less one who has less, and at least nothing that does not have, or the state to help him. Also, when it comes to revenues, Serbia cannot move forward until they increase. Only they can provide an improvement and, of course, the biggest revenues will be when we strengthen the economy and production, which will fill that budget. Until then, we have the same attitude, in that tax policy, that the most people who have the most, the less those who have the less, and those who don't, give them the state. What we insist on and support the government and are looking for is a fierce struggle, to the end, when it comes to tax revenues, financial discipline, and when it comes to the gray economy. In Serbia, it has become almost impossible to pay taxes, not to pay transportation, electricity, contributions etc. That's where the government has to react very resolutely to that. In Serbia, everyone has to pay both taxes and contributions and all the taxes that exist. There's no need for the government to have any kind of pardon. Also, when it comes to the gray economy, which is a huge part of our gross national income, you have shown in the case of oil how the gray economy can be contained. They're warning me to time out, so I'm gonna cut it short. What I want to say when it comes to employee salaries, I just want to go through a few sentences. The basis for these measures of the Government – there is no money. What I want to warn you about is that in the people of Serbia it is repeated by Vuk Karadzic, it is not wrong for the people that there is no, but that it is not just. What we insist on is justice. We very much support the Serbian government to resolve fairer profits in Serbia through the payment-class system. There is also an opportunity for educational workers, for health workers, who are affected by these measures, which are not equal, fair in Serbia's profit system, to have no adequate place, there is an opportunity to do so, I say. There is also an opportunity to introduce order in Serbia. In Serbia, there are 900 coefficients, several dozen bases, etc. There's a lot of injustice, there's a lot of illogicality. The law on salaries in the state authorities has very clearly regulated the hierarchy of all salaries, all indeed, as any interested group was strong enough to escape the law and it is corrupt. Now we have a situation where one base applies to another base. We have a situation that the president of the Republic, the prime minister, and now they're in 1001st place. I don't think it's money anymore, but order and fairer distribution within that. So we will support these measures because the situation in Serbia, economic and social, is very serious, because it no longer endures to delay and seek immediate and urgent bold measures, decisive measures and requires confidence that, based on all other measures that will be taken, it will put Serbia and bring Serbia into a position that it is on healthy feet and that it can function for a long time, economically stabilise and then provide a higher standard of living, but on realistic grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11608	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11609	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, we are now entering the 11th hour debate on budget rebalancing for 2014 and what we have had the opportunity to hear, that there is a lot of ignorance in this area. There are few people who have really read all the items in the budget and who have been adequately discussing it. Speaking of which, and when we talk about the historic moment, today's rebalancing is in fact the materialisation of economic reforms promised to citizens in March 2014. The materialisation is precisely with respect for the citizens of Serbia, ultimately, of the MPs, that the simple budget that is ahead of us and adopted, with all the problems that exist, with four pillars of which Minister Vujovic spoke, which are: expenditures, revenues, restructuring companies and the part relating to public enterprises. What to say is that the report of the Fiscal Council supported these measures, and when we talked to the members of the Fiscal Council on several occasions over the past year, they always said that since 2007 they have warned that these measures should be carried out. In which percentage, size, they will go – depends on the creation of an ambience in society and the acceptability of legal solutions. What is important is to say that the Fiscal Council cited exactly the biggest problems related to public enterprises, the guarantees of banks that Serbia's budget extended each year, and this went on year-to-year. After all, what Mr. Vujovic said, it's true, it's often started, never finished, and always the problems just piled up. That's what this deficit showed every time. What's historic in this budget? Historically, for the first time all Serbian citizens have some self-responsibility, which is to accept that everyone in their work bears a certain sacrifice for the sake of better living in the future and there is a people's awareness of the need to implement the reform and not spend what is not earned. When we talk about income, it should be said that 84.6% of income goes from tax, according to this rebalance, and 14.5% goes from other non-taxable parts. When we talk about taxes, we have more tax rates, which are those relating to profit, income, added value, excises, and that part we're about in trouble, but that's already a long-term problem, that reduced income, that expenditures are increased. When we talk about expenditures, those besides public enterprises and restructure companies, which we are struggling with, also relate to salaries, pensions, social benefits. When you look at the structure on the side of the 240th expenditure in the functional classification, you have something to see. You have that health, culture and education include almost 17.2% of total expenditure, that public policy and security, when we talk about the MUP, when we talk about defence, include another 15.8% of total expenditure, and when you take public incomes, i.e. public expenditures such as salaries, pensions and social benefits, include 55%. It means that this budget is simply socially responsible, but a system approach has been applied here to solve the problems. It's balanced to solve problems the way we started in April of the month. I must thank Minister Vujovic for the simple reason that some things have been started with companies in restructuring since he was in place of the Minister of Industry and completed, practically, this part when we speak in the legal framework, defined by the Law on Privatisation, Amendments and Supplements on the Agency for Privatisation, which is that the competition that practically covered the collection of initiatives on 15 September on the interest of companies to resolve the restructuring. If you say 375 bids have arrived for 153 enterprises in restructuring, then that really means there is a light in that tunnel relating to the budget of 750m euros. This means that we will succesively be safe within a year, two and three to get rid of these givings and that the simple budget will no longer bear that weight on its hands. What is important is to say that public enterprises are a much more difficult task to discuss and that when we talk about this corporation, public enterprises need to embrace the complete reform of their functioning, one reengineering of the entire system, and that means that good managers must start running public enterprises, as they are incometing, as much as they spend, with all their debts 10 and 15 years ago. It will be a very difficult task for the state as well as for the companies themselves, as well as for the directors. What I want to insist on today, which is that we have heard a lot from previous speakers about the fact that foreign direct investment is very low, that it almost doesn't exist and my impression is that some have not even read this budget rebalancing, and they never took an interest in where Serbia is located. I will only let you know that in September, a European journal relating to the European attractiveness of services in 2014 published a report saying that the most attractive investment site in South East Europe in 2012 was Serbia, that the excellent results continued in 2013, that the number of new jobs, in principle foreign direct investment, was up 18%, which placed Serbia fifth in Europe, while 63 new investment projects positioned Serbia as the second most attractive investment site in Southeast Europe after Poland. If the EU is talking about us, then it's very ugly to tell ourselves the truth, because it shows that we don't really know where we are. I'd just say it's a good thing we're in a position like this at all, given that for 12 years some have led the state without knowing where they belong. In the end, I'd like to point out that part of the debate that applied to energy. I thank Mr Petrovic for opening many topics relating to the development of energy, but it should help us actually reduce the many costs that are going, which have also been incurred as a result of major floods, damages with which the energy system has simply remained to function as efficiently as it can, and that at any moment consumers are really getting electricity from the shortest time possible. In the end, I'd say it's a good thing that Mr. Vulin really put in a new principle of social giving, that such a principle has developed economies, but what do we get by it? Yes, simply, the consciousness of the people begins to go to the principle of permanent perfection, or that we simply never get into a situation where we think about working without being able to earn, and then we come to a situation where when we receive from the state a certain fee, we feel socially useless. Now we feel a social responsibility, first of all to the state that cares about us and that principle simply exists in all developed countries, and that is an indication that we have a future. Finally, I will say that it is a very important contract that Serbia should conclude with the IMF, because one of the founders in 1946, the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and then Tito, on the understanding that one of the co-founders was, withdrew 150 credit lines, raising his country's 90-fold capital. It means that these arrangements are necessary to the state, if you know you have capital, if you can and are able to enter into the full investment and reform of your society and then be an interesting partner for each developed state. I hope that with this kind of rebalancing, we will enter structural reforms and, as such, manage to get Serbia on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11610	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11611	Madam President, gentlemen of the Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the impression is that we have been living in some experimental time for the last two years in which the third government has been acting as if it were conducting an experiment on our economy, economy, finance and citizens. I'll remind you that you, Mr. Minister, third minister of finance in two years, we think, the fourth minister of economy, the third or fourth minister of agriculture for whom I suppose neither the MPs know what he's doing or what he's called, and that in fact the most important points that should be considered today, in terms of budgets, and for me, the budget is not expenditure, but the revenue that should allow the budget to be filled were actually typical experiments that were conducted with people who changed for six months, who couldn't establish an adequate policy of budget filling. Today we have one situation to discuss the rebalancing and two government proposals, a reduction in pensions and salaries that I consider to be completely inappropriate, because I do not accept that the reform is a reduction in the income of those people who are employed and who earn their salaries, just like your colleagues sitting here today. In order to know where Serbia is today, in order to be able to analyse all of this proposed, we should go back two years and see first why and how it is possible that Serbia with some 15.7 billion foreign debt from July 2012 according to the Public Debt Administration, is now in a position to owe 22 billion and 585 million dollars which is almost seven billion euros more than two years and a month ago. If we know that the economy is collapsing, if we know that the problem is, in fact, essentially, filling the budget, if we know that you were the Minister of Economy, the question is, what have you done on this revenue side to prevent this last situation or sanctions against that part of the citizenship that works in the public administration and unfairly towards the pensioners who have earned their pensions, in order to fill the income side. Instead of looking for a solution on that key income side, you, Mr. Minister, will remain remembered, I told you here at the last session, as the man who came to that position to practically cut pensions and wages. The first experiment was Minister Dinkic, who abolished his own revenues to the ministries and practically tied his hands to all ministries that had their own incomes, to function and work. After that, he came and practically disappeared from political life, Mr Krstic. He raised all taxes that could be raised in Serbia, 11% higher value added tax, 50% higher profit tax, and had a huge, enormous hole in the budget. You are now the third minister in two years who brings in a new innovation that is completely unacceptable, which is a reduction in pensions and salaries, which we believe does not even exist as a constitutional basis, on the one hand. On the other hand, we believe that something is going on that is completely inappropriate, and what the Prime Minister said here today, which is that those who have a higher salary of over 100,000 dinars, will virtually receive even more from December 1st, and those who have a smaller one, they will receive less. A moment ago you were talking about the minister having a salary of 103,000 dinars and that he would receive more or less the same as he is now receiving. But the question is, what's the salary of a governor who's got half a million dinars today? It is currently receiving 380,000, and after your reform and savings it will receive 450,000 dinars. That's 70,000 more. That's about 70 people taking 1,000 dinars to get that woman 70,000 more. It's something that's unacceptable and that's the policy we're talking about, that's being taken away from those who don't have to give to those who have. It's something we won't accept. What I think is really the point and what we should talk about today, of course in addition to the expenditure, is to ask ourselves what happened in Serbia so that the promises made and the Prime Minister said during the last hours that he fulfilled all promises, that they were not fulfilled. We will agree in the situation that, let's say, a promise that was impossible was fulfilled, but that, for example, the promise made to Serbian citizens to dig up the Belgrade-Solun channel would certainly not reduce pensions or salaries today, but rather salaries and pensions in Serbia would grow because they would have such an activity to run honey and milk here. It was announced in Mr. President Nikolic's election campaign, and hundreds of billions more or less. Later, Minister Bacevic, a colleague of yours, said that these are thousands of billions who flock to Serbia, but did not show up. Why is it not the chip factory, which was supposed to invest three billion euros, which would certainly ensure Serbia's economic development and allow these people today not to reduce their pensions or salaries, but rather to have growth in the economy? Why is there no airline factory, also something the prime minister promised? He said he kept all the promises, and we don't see that airline factory. On the contrary, we see that SDPR is trying to save Utva Panchevo, which is also catching straws of salvation, because unless the planes are sold it is very difficult to save. The Serbian prime minister has made more promises in the past five months, and he says he is only in power for five months and accuses that the Democratic Party has been in power for 14 years, more promises than all governments have made in 14 years. One of the promises made is the promise to buy 380 euros per square metre in Belgrade. Imagine if that had happened and at least that promise had been fulfilled. Today, you would have had much better financial data here, and you would say that you have higher incomes, and you wouldn't be cutting pensions and salaries again. The problem of budgeting, which unfortunately some colleagues here in parliament do not understand, is certainly the Mercedes factory. Before the election, we had a promise that it would be a fantastic factory that would produce and sell Mercedes around the world, and today, except for the one on which the "Mercedes" sign was glued, none more was made. If by any chance this factory had worked, if they had started selling these Mercedeses, if a buyer had been found, they would have incomes, as you know, on the basis of wages, wages taxes, etc. And it would still be easier for us not to cut pensions and wages. What do I mean? I'm saying that our economy in the last two years, despite the seven billion-dollar debt, is in complete collapse, and that you, as finance minister, must first of all do this, ask the Ministry of Economy and Prime Minister to allow you to have a budget charge in an adequate manner that will allow pensions and salaries to be on this and now low. On the other hand, I think that you as finance minister and as a man who is aware that it is necessary to make rigid moves you could say – I suggest that pay is limited in the public sector. Why didn't you go out and say – the maximum wage in the public sector is 120,000 dinars, no one can have more than that? People who have fewer, which is a vast majority, which is 90 per cent of Serbian citizens working in the public sector, would not be affected. You'd be hit by a governor, you'd be hit by a governor's joke, you'd be hit by corporate executives who are failing, more or less. These directors that the company is more in decline have bigger salaries. Let them make money by making a profit. Well, if the company run by the director who today has 400-500 thousand dinars pay doesn't make a profit, let him receive 120,000 salaries, and not keep receiving 400-500 thousand salaries, the company doesn't make any profits, does not charge your budget and budget for all Serbian citizens, and it is taken less than the one who has under 100,000 dinars. I'm glad you're writing this down, because this is, I mean, a crucial thing. You don't have to deal with doctors, professors, cops, those soldiers who marched the other day to the pride of all of us...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11612	Mr. Sutanovac, time's up in five seconds. Finish it, but let me warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11613	You just said you gave your colleagues two minutes more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11614	Here, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11615	Mr. Minister, one more thing. If you don't know, there is an attack of the tax police on the catering facilities in Serbia. That's not the problem. The problem is they don't understand that it's not the solution to close the place down for seven days because a can of coke was found extra in the bar. The solution is to punish the place, and keep working, because that way they fill the budget and keep going. When they close down the place for seven days, as happened, for example, in one of the largest places in Belgrade, 77 people didn't work, 77 people didn't pay taxes, contributions etc. You've been knocked out of your budget and that's a huge problem for your ministry to function. Thank you, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11616	People's MP Zoran Babic, head of the parliamentary group, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11617	There's no mention of any word from any party, not one word. I was only talking to the minister. That's the most insolent thing I've ever seen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11618	Mr. Sutanovac, please allow the chairman to lead this session. You didn't allow...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11619	You've been misusing the position you're in all day... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11620	Mr. Sutanovac, do you allow me to say? (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: I want the minister to suit me, not the handsome Mr Babic. Here, now let me inform you, Mr. Sutanovac. You didn't let me, I didn't give the word to Mr. Babic, but I wanted to ask Mr. Babic on what basis he was answering. If you hadn't mentioned his name and last name now, I wouldn't have had a basis for a replica, nor would I have given him a replica, and now I have to because you mentioned his name and yet insult him in a way that doesn't look like this high house. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11621	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the sake of the public, I will inform you that this handsome Mr. Zoran Babic has graduated two and a half times faster than professional Dragan Sutanovac, the same university. I called to say someone's keeping their promises, just like a previous speaker does. As good as it is for Serbia, the citizens of Serbia have estimated, and so do you. The previous speaker promised and fulfilled that he would hire 27 secretaries in "Kruik" -- he fulfilled. So the 27-secretary in Krusik is employed. What are they doing? Ask God. Filled. He also promised the director that he could buy the latest Audi class with screens in his seats, 70-80,000 euros, the cost of the Audi latest, more sports version, he promised. Never mind, the company in losses, promised – fulfilled. He promised the workers "Kruška" that since 2010, they will not be paid pension and social insurance and he has fulfilled it. Since 2010, workers "Kruika" do not have pension and disability insurance. Let's move on, he made another promise to the members of the Serbian Army and fulfilled it. Consent to the provisions of the Law on the Serbian Army, and on the basis of a solution from the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund and the Social Insurance Fund of Military Insurance Insurance was required to coordinate and increase military insurance pensions by 11.06% since 1 January 2008. The Minister of War then...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11622	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11623	The Minister of Defence then promised and fulfilled that he would not do so and neither did the Republic Fund nor the military PIO Fund, so as the previous speaker kept his promises... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11624	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Now I've got Secretary Vulin reported, and so do you, Mr. Sutanovac. On what grounds? I'm asking you the same question as Mr. Babic, on what grounds? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I'm badly interpreted, mentioned me.) He never once mentioned your name and name. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac. It's not worth convincing with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11625	Yeah. Since unserious power, a power that has no solutions, a government that has no vision deals with secretaries, lunches, phones, that's one topic. The second topic of untruth is here on several occasions concerning the Krusik factory. Since I had in my hand a report from the board of directors, which was presented to the board of directors, let me read you the information. Total revenue in millions of dinars for 2010 was three billion and 600 million, in 2012 – two billion and 335 million and 2013. - a billion and 200 million. There's no increase of two and a half times as much as there is talk. At the same time, business revenue, also with two billion and 659 million in 2010, fell to a billion 180 million. So, for days we've been hearing about 27 non-existent secretaries, about winter tires on the audition, you've been saying that S6, C6, it doesn't even matter, which can't be replaced, because there's no money in the factory, that 300 people lost their jobs in that same factory, according to the data from "Cruise" and we don't get the right to react to the truth. The truth is very painful. The Krusik factory is in a collapse, and unless it is helped, it will not recover. The way she's offered a 27-secretary recovery, it won't help anyone, and the defence ministers, I'm ready to schedule tomorrow's session of the Defence and Security Committee to call the unions from Krusik and all the unions from Serbia who are engaged in arms and to speak publicly, so your word on my word, let's see who's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11626	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11627	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a lot of truth in what the former minister is saying, but he should remember that only in January 2014 was the director who stayed there for seven years to be the Director General, changed. That information you have, they're public and that's not the problem. You haven't told me anything new. However, you must know that the 2008 salary in Krusik was 26.545 dinars, 2009 30.145 dinars, 2010 31.694 dinars, 2011 31.592, and today it is 38.304 dinars. In doing so, 554 million is exports. I kept quiet, listened to you, didn't throw anything away. Nearly 600 million for the first eight months of this year, exports are direct, free of traffic they have with the Serbian Army. Please, there's no problem sitting down with all the unions, because they're involved in every one of my departures, in every one of these factories that we have here, and I can tell you the same information for Utva, because I can see that you're worried about Utva, just don't call me unions and just don't talk to them, please. The situation is good, the state thinks about the enterprises of the dedicated industry. The companies of the dedicated industry can be a significant driver of re-industry of Serbia and we and this government and this prime minister whom you accuse of having promised, that it has not been carried out, and you know that it is not true, and I understand that you have to speak politically and what you have to say everything, but don't do that, because we have significantly and significantly better results than it was in some previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11628	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. That closes the circle of replicas, I won't let you talk about anything else that isn't the subject, Mr. Sutanovac. Mr. Arsenović, on what grounds do you want the word? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: he spoke to me personally. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11629	Babic here, I say, said from lack of information that Mr. Sutanovac promised to solve the problem of increasing pensions in 2008 by 11.06%. Unfortunately, he didn't promise, but he stopped it from happening. For the sake of truth, it's very important, only in that sense I want to supplement you, Mr. Babic, he's personal, I have information, he's not allowed, and because of this, military pensioners have been running the dispute they've won in court for six years. That's what I've been discussing here today and praying for an answer, because the nine billion debt that amounted to has grown to 19 billion, exclusively due to court costs and interest. Please, now, you see where we are. I'm sorry, but for the truth's sake, I had to say this. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11630	I thank Mr. Arsenovic. Like I said, I closed the circle of replicas, so neither Mr. Sutanovac nor Mr. Babic, you have the right to a replica. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Dusan Vujovic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Name has accused me... ) Mr Sutanovac, I think this has gone too far from the topic and because of the citizens of Serbia and other MPs, I do not want to allow you to use the replica anymore as an abuse at this session. Minister Dusan Vujovic received the word. When the minister is finished... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11631	I checked in early, if I could.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11632	Okay, Mr. Sutanovac, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The moment you abuse, I'll interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11633	I mean, I'm... I'm... I'm... Article 106. So, I'm mentioned by name and last name in a negative context and accused in disgrace that I'm responsible for the pensions of military officers, and I'm going to tell you something I would never say. Mr. Krkobic, the deceased, told me that your pensions should not be increased, because your pensions are on average more than the average salary of Serbian citizens. He's the one, and I would never say that, if you Pups hadn't mentioned it, because he was a gentleman man I'd never mentioned, but if you knew, that's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11634	I think this is enough, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11635	Please, just a brief note, we are talking today about budget rebalancing for 2014 and we are talking about reducing part of pensions, a smaller part of pension and a reduction in most of the salary. Specific billing and pension laws will determine how they are reduced. The budget only contains the total amount. You can, as part of the discussion of these laws, propose a different way of reducing it in the form of amendments. The budget rebalance as well as I as finance minister shall, above all, be responsible for the size of the total amount and the fiscal consequences of this reduction, i.e. in this situation, fiscal results, the impact of this reduction on the deficit, and hence the overall economic policy measures that we will bring with the 2015, 2016 and 2017 budget. The information alone works to tell you that unfortunately in this country, distribution of wages and pensions is such that the number of people and the mass of pensions and salaries that are over 100,000 dinars is practically negligible. All 3% of the salary funds are paid by people who receive over 100,000 and it would be good if it were 30% but it's not. Therefore, the reduction in wages over 100,000 destimulates the most responsible layers of society, and once again only gives a reduction within 3%. So, below that 3%, it's going to decrease 10% and it's going to get 0.3% of the social product. I repeat, it would be good if our salaries were Swedish and we could accomplish more there. Sweden taxes rich people, to the extent that they even leave the country, but there they can accomplish much more. One important thing, the effects of this year, this budget counts for only two months, and only one month is realized this year and this continues next year, much more importantly. The preparation of the Public Service Payments Act is under way, which will fully define a new payment matrix, where all of what we are doing now will actually be one interstep to the new pay system. Therefore, no one's goal here is to permanently cut wages. The goal is that everything we achieve at more rational use of people, on increased productivity in order to replace those who retire to retirement or leave work for some other reasons, or transition to the private sector, is used to make real wages and productivity, and the quality of public services grow. The countries that have been successful in the reforms that we are now launching have been doing just that. So it's not the goal of reducing real wages to a longer term, it's to make this the first step on the way to pay, pensions and performances that suit us. It is a very close idea for performances in public enterprises to be linked, i.e. to pay for performances in public enterprises, which is the essence of the reform of the public enterprises that we propose. I, as finance minister, will push myself to the end, that public companies that do not achieve performance must not have any more money than the minimum guaranteed in the budget. It is absolutely absurd that someone in a public enterprise has a loss that is paid in the budget below the line, and is earning a salary that is two, three times higher, i.e. at that maximum that is now set to 260,000 dinars. So that's one of the principles that I'm sure will support all parties, hopefully both positions and opposition. But that's the next step. We do so in the following year with laws that will define salaries in public services, salaries in public enterprises, which will define a responsible system of state participation in enterprises where the state has property, partly or 100% property, and that we will move from the existing system where participation in the boards of directors and supervisory boards is treated as apprehension, not as a responsible state and social function, to bring these businesses into order and to this country yield income and profits, not losses. So there's absolutely no dilemma. However, this is not the subject of today’s debate. I take that into account and something that we will put on the agenda the first time we discuss the strategy, the fiscal strategy that the government will adopt, I hope before the end of November and we will discuss the implementation of that strategy in the budget for 2015 and the following year. As you know, the entire ministry is one thing dealing with the program by considering all positions. What I'd like to be the result of that work connecting those positions. You can call it pay grade or some definition, a clear definition of jobs, but by linking them to those wages on the market, wages that the market valorizes. It means that we have a system of reference salaries that will ensure that people do not flee from the private sector to the state, that the state is what is called a source of employment that is more difficult for everyone, but that the state is a place where people who have something to do in the country do what they do and that those who are productive, young and most ambitious earn more and earn more money in the private sector. Therefore, the system is highly consistent. Getting out of this situation and getting into this situation that have successful countries in the world isn't easy, but believe me, we have a consistent program that can't be done in one step. With this rebalancing, we are only taking the first step in this direction, and in the coming years we expect that, with public service reform, with the reform of the public service wage system, we will do this, that we will change the award system. I suggest that there be a redundancy between existing salaries and new salaries. If we look for continuity, we'll never get out of this wagon. So we have to map people into new occupations, new responsibilities. We need to delegate responsibilities both in the state and in all places. Those who achieve the results should get as much as prescribed as the norm, plus bonuses, and those who do not get that they will not achieve it. Another note. Learning from the experience from 2009 to 2012, when we have temporary results, we need to share them as bonuses, not as permanent increases that we cannot withstand. That's why we're talking about it today. Therefore, in one year we achieve the result in one company or whole budget, suppose we achieve a surplus in 2016. If it's not a permanent surplus, we can share the bonuses of everyone involved, but not create ourselves a commitment that we won't be able to make for the next five or ten years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11636	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Dejan Radenkovic has the word, and let the MP Darko Laketic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11637	Thank you, Vice President Becic. You know what, if there are those who don't listen freely, they know where the door is, so they can come out to keep other speakers out of the way and not rush because we've been listening all day and what was meaningful and what was pointless, so here we are. I've been following up here all day. I haven't been out of the O.R. So, I'd like to ask my colleagues for some attention. Dear Ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, it is obvious that, like everyone so far, the rebalancing and this one is necessary because our reality is completely different, so we must compare it to the reality in which we are at the beginning of the year. The measures the government is proposing are difficult and bitter, but we must, of course, say that at this point over are necessary and they are only one part of a mosaic reform that will change our country for the better. If we stop at just a fascination in budget numbers, pointing out that we first have to solve public finances, and in the meantime we can't start other sources of trouble, then we won't get anywhere. However, it is clear to all of us where we want to go and that there is much to change in our country. Let's get back to the beginning, to rebalance as a prerequisite for the projections of reality. When we made this budget, no one could project that almost a quarter of our country would be affected by the floods that happen once in a few decades. No one predicted that we would have a temporary lake in action and in a place where a significant part of GDP is created. No one could have known that instead of new housing units, we would have to rebuild those damaged in floods and rinks. Who would have thought our economy would have to stop at a certain point because it wasn't possible to work. We didn't fail so much because we had a bad plan, simply our GDP reduced the force that we couldn't even have this current majority affected, even though they respected us and put on our cheeks that we were responsible for something we couldn't even think of doing, let alone doing something like that. The charge came from heaven, which our people would say, because we've been destroying our flood defense system for years, and those who respected us had all the time in this world to invest in flood defense systems and to deal with it. Since we all like to mention the '90s, I can bring up one piece of information that, and everybody's happy to mention it, it's more invested in flood defense systems than in the coming years after the '90s, but let's not go into the past. If we're smart, we've learned enough, especially us socialists, we can say that we've certainly learned a lot. I can also say that we are the only party that has existed since the beginning of the multiparty in serious form and there is no fear of what it is wearing tomorrow. To be honest, this rebalancing carries austerity measures. That's what we've all witnessed. We've heard a lot about it today. They are similar to the solidarity tax, only in a way they are legally much better founded with a clearer and wider savings base. The savings measures, which are important to us from the SPS, have been bypassed by those who certainly have little. On the one hand, those almost 60% of pensioners who won't have to force themselves to save us tell us how many times we have to go to make our country better. If we are witnessing that 60% of the people who built our country today live with less than 200 euros a month, we really have a lot of work to do before us. The fact is that they're very hard to live on, we're all witnesses to it, and it tells us that we have to fundamentally change our country, not only because we've taxed those who have something more than we have so many people who barely make ends meet, and they've earned their pensions honestly, and there's no response in rebalancing, in fiscal adjustments, the answer is only in economic growth. The answer is not in the military tax collection of small and slightly larger ones, but in the equality of all economic operators. So there are no benefits in tax collection, there is no difference, and above all we have to work on creating good conditions for business in Serbia. The battle is fought on many fronts, but because of the painful visibility of the deficits even experienced economists tend to believe that this deficit is something that can be corrected by technical measures. Whether they're spending cuts or tax hikes, whether they're a better charge or a careful mission of law, that's true, but only in a few months and we're all aware that we have to do it and it can't be popular. It's a good thing everyone's aware that this solution is forced and temporary and that this is just a prerequisite, not a cure that solves everything. We are now dealing with the consequences, because the effects of such action must pass the time. We went into battle with the causes of the problem. Reform laws have been passed, the new ones are just waiting for this meeting. We're about to be searched by public enterprises, which I think is very important. We are in for regulatory reform, we are in for restructuring firms, we are in for tax reform that will gradually reduce the burdens and at the same time reduce the tolerance to escape into the gray economy. There's a lot of stuff waiting for us, I'm not running away from it, but we're not going to say it gives results right now. So now we have to do this rebalancing that's ahead of us, which is welcome to the knife. The subsidies were criticised today. We don't have a solution in a short time to solve what decades of problems are and we can't solve it in one day. We don't have a solution that can be found within a short period of time for subsidies. It will forget how much subsidies with this rebalancing were higher in earlier periods and earlier years. Today, a reduction in salaries for public sector professionals has been criticised, but I do not see any proposals. What do you think, we can cut the number of employees across our knees without any serious analysis? For all of this, people, it takes time to produce some fruits, and something has to be done right away, and that is what we are doing today with this rebalance and these measures proposed by the government. It can't be good for us first, so let's change. We have to be realistic. The situation is not good at first sight, but we have reason to believe that it can be better if it is brave and determined to work on solving the cause of the problem, and on that road we will not be an obstacle to ourselves, because if we fail, the consequences will be very bad. Therefore, to your joy, my final conclusion would be that I can say that the rebalancing should be supported, that the government's savings proposals should be supported, because they are part of a broader spectrum of measures that must be done in the coming year and that our society would be placed on healthy feet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11638	I thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11639	I would like to commend the government's work and respect for all the legal frameworks and deadlines related to budget rebalancing. I can only conclude that since the Serbian Progressive Party has participated, therefore, in any way in the government, I can say that the budgets have also been in the Constitution and the deadline guaranteed by law. I would like to remind you that by 2012, by the end of the 2013 budget, almost as a rule, budgets had come outside the legal deadline, and sometimes by the minute of 31 December. Many remember what happened for the 2009 budget, when arrangements were made with certain parliamentary groups not to take part in the amendments just to avoid temporary financing. Why has no budget come within the legal deadline until then, and now some opposition MPs are full of deadlines and dates? First of all, I'd like to mention that part of my exposure to health care. Since we have discussed and discussed the Law on Obligation Social Insurance, it has been said that if the funds collected to be added to the budget of the Republic Health Insurance Fund are not sufficient to implement adequate health care for the population, the rebalancing will be defined by the budget. I myself took part in the debate and made an adequate contribution to the session. This is exactly the answer to all those who, with no confidence at the time, talked about it. Namely, no health transfer will be compromised and citizens can be calm, as all the rights related to compulsory health insurance will be realised as they have so far. On the other hand, we are also aware that the fiscal consolidation measures are difficult, but that without these measures it is definitely not possible to start and recover the economy. As part of this and along with these measures, I'm looking at this current budget rebalance. That's what we have and what we can plan with. If earlier authorities had been more responsible now, they would not have come into a situation to fight for the regular payment of pensions and profits, so that based on all the problems and difficulties this government faces, which it inherited from the former authorities, they can only say that the Serbian governments were definitely the worst since the arrival of Slovenia to the Balkans from 2000 to 2012. I can't comment otherwise. Today I'm going to put an accent on why the budget is the way it is and why the government is facing problems like this. During its rule, the former government destroyed Serbian factories, manufacturing and export-oriented enterprises, and, what was also very bad, dramatically increased the administration somewhere, unfortunately even by ten times. What do you say and how to describe the fact that a thousand of the most qualitative, best Serbian enterprises are privatised by about two billion euros, if that's what you can say, sold or privatised? Unfortunately, many of these companies no longer exist today, which is even worse than that. I also have to present all of this on the case of a small town in Serbia where I come from, and that's Prokuplje and so is most of the cities in Serbia. In fact, the Cup welcomed privatisation with 10,700 employees, of which 6,700 in the economy. Here's what they did: Prokupac in bankruptcy, Milan Toplica company in bankruptcy, more than a decade of water flows into the Toplica River, Toplicanka company in bankruptcy, Fijaz company in bankruptcy, a metal-colored factory at bankruptcy, a cave-glass factory in bankruptcy, a flat glass factory in bankruptcy, a company in bankruptcy, a company "Universal Transport" in bankruptcy, a Toplica company in bankruptcy, a commercial company "Small Transport", now a doo "Small Transport" with two employees. Gentlemen, all these companies employ over 5,000 people, over 5,000 workers. You can only imagine and assume with what capacity they filled the Serbian budget, that, the budget we're discussing today, the same budget that we're doing today. All those people stayed on the street. Why did someone need to destroy the decades-old effort of generations? Was it done to provide the former authorities with material supplies, even though it was their first job in life, or did they get it without a college? Today, we are constantly hearing from opposition MPs about how problems with the budget have nothing to do with their rule, how they are delayed with the rebalancing, etc. After such shameful effects of quasi privatisation, to call it that, they have the nerve to ask and comment on the budget. Today, it is easy for them to set up populist demands and make populist statements and try who knows which way to deceive Serbian citizens. However, courage lies in telling workers the truth, dear colleagues. What I see is that Mr. Vukic really takes politics as a fateful and life-threatening question where taxes are greater than death. That proves his sentence-- I'll promise less, I'll try harder. I've heard it for the first time in my life, not in politics, but in life. Far from someone trying to install it into the party's political genome, as he did. In this case it is truly proven that honesty is the best policy, as Benjamin Franklin once said a long time ago. My message, first of all to opposition MPs and opposition in general, is that by really insinuating, insulting, by not giving up what is one sincere desire to do right, I don't think they'll do anything. My message is that Mr. Prime Minister Vukic has such support that he could, like Vladimir Klick, in a difficult category, unite all the titles of the prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11640	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11641	Thank you. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget rebalancing that we are talking about today, together with a set of accompanying laws, is definitely the necessary measures for economic and financial consolidation and for the continuation of the reform process in Serbia. I would say, considering the proposals that we are talking about today and the draft budget rebalancing law and a set of accompanying laws, that one thing is certain, and that is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has very clear and precise economic objectives. The government of the Republic of Serbia wants both economic and budgetary and financial parameters to be held in its hands, which is extremely important at the moment. Whenever a debate is being held on the budget rebalancing of the current year or the budget for the following year, several key issues are being raised – could the rebalancing be better, or could the budget or the rebalancing be more realistic, could it have been socially fairer, socially fairer, socially fairer? We believe that at this point such a proposal did not exist, there was no more realistic and socially fairer social fairer and socially fairer proposal. We seem to have had two alternatives at this point. One alternative and one direction is, unfortunately, a list of beautiful desires that would lead to a financial collapse that would lead to bankruptcy. You specified the time period when this would happen, it seems to me to be the end of 2016 or the beginning of 2017 and the second alternative and the second direction is something which at the moment is necessary, inescapability, necessity, reality, which is the continuation of essential reform processes, without which there will be no positive shifts in Serbia. As a responsible political option, as a party that, we have said more than once, wants to share the responsibility and values of this Government of the Republic of Serbia contained in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Between these two alternatives, we accept what is reality and what at this point is a realistic answer to what are the current problems of citizens. Looking at the proposals we are talking about today, they would say that the government had one responsible and serious approach and that these proposals are a realistic response to what the citizens are and that they are in Serbia's interest and in the interests of Serbian citizens. We have said more than once that this government has strong political legitimacy, has a clear view of citizens in the elections – that modernization, to change, to make fundamental reforms. It seems to me that this government, in addition, has one resolve and seriousness to fix everything that was not good in the previous period, especially in the area of the economy and in the area of finance. In this regard, one leads, I would say, a realistic policy, a policy without masks. It makes it very clear that it is not important to rate political parties that form the ruling coalition, that the government does not exist, such as, among other things, that the government does not exist because of political parties that are part of the government and part of the ruling coalition, but because of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. We need to know what we want and what we want. In this context, the SPS Parliament Club fully supports what the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are, a clear goal is that we need to make a major step forward, that small, small, partial steps are not enough. The main news today is there's going to be a pay cut, there's going to be a pension cut, but that's not the point of the debate we're having today. The bottom line is that we are talking about measures that are the salvation of the Serbian economy and measures that are essential to Serbia's future and the measures that are fundamentally relevant to the future of each Serbian citizen. Serbia must reform itself and to reform Serbia, it must take and make bold and determined economic decisions, but also take unpopular political measures, as this leads to the creation of real foundations leading to the recovery of the Serbian economy, to new jobs and to employment. We need to improve the business climate, investment climate, improve the business environment, make Serbia an attractive investment destination. I would say that through the proposals that we are talking about today, the Serbian government has rightly recognised what basic segments and elements of the budget deficit are, and we fully agree. Better fiscal discipline, collection and control are needed. A stronger and more determined fight against the grey economy is needed, greater revenues from public enterprises, public enterprises reform. Public enterprises must be both cheaper and more efficient. A fundamental reform of the public sector is needed and we fully support the concept that is very clearly defined in the prime minister's exposure, which is public reform and strengthening the private sector. The private sector is the future. Incentive of the private sector is very important, it is important for the economy that creates new jobs, but it is important for the country that lives from tax collection from the company's profits. Of course, it is important to complete the privatisation process in Serbia, complete the restructuring process, and finally put an end to the 500 company problem, as far as the privatisation agency's list, which at the moment cost the republican budget of 800m euros, which employ about a hundred thousand workers and have the value of about a billion dinar assets, to solve the problem in terms of finding a strategic partner and to start production. As we have said many times before, the crisis is not solved by popular but by necessary and unpopular measures. A restrictive policy is needed. Savings at the state level must and should be a priority, but saving in itself isn't enough. We need to find a way to develop in the next period. The economic recovery of the state involves, above all, the recovery of the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11642	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11643	I'm done. These are measures leading to Serbia's recovery, which lead to new jobs, towards employment. Economic recovery also involves the launch of production. It cannot support 300 or 400 thousand people in production to support four million people and Serbia. Investments are needed, projects are needed, because this is the only real way to solve a burning issue today in Serbia, and this is the issue of unemployment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11644	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11645	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I want to thank you for today's patience, for the answers you've given us. I would like to point out one value, which is that today, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the most part of the debate was Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, that he was the largest part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would like us all to turn to the benches where the representatives of the former regime sit, you so concerned about the fate of Serbia and the fate of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the presence of four ministers who didn't even leave the hall today, and we in the benches of the former regime have four MPs. So much for caring for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the measures this government will implement in the coming period. I think it speaks more of the seriousness of the ruling majority, that it speaks of the seriousness of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the indifference they showed at the time when they created the country's fate by the former regime. Some questions have been asked. Mystification of certain developments in the Republic of Serbia has also been set. Something that was particularly burning my ears was one sentence – that the tycoons would now do anything for this Government of the Republic of Serbia, even if they stood on one hand. No one must stand before the Serbian government on one hand. The tycoons have to work, pay taxes, pay their employees, pay their obligations to the state, the city and everything prescribed by law. This is a big difference compared to the period of the former regime, when the government was doing everything and standing on one hand just for those same tycoons. I'm proud of that difference. This shows the seriousness of the state, showing the seriousness of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The budget rebalance is presented as something terrible. I would remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I would remind all of you that for 10 years from 2002 to 2012, there were 11 budget rebalances in Serbia, that there were years, as my colleague Arsic pointed out, when the budget rebalancing was carried out on December 29th 2009, that there were so many miscalculated and projected budgets, that there were years like 2002 and 2009, when the budget rebalancing was rebalanced twice. What about that responsibility? What about what counterpart Arsic pointed out, that instead of preparing for the New Year's welcome, instead of letting the citizens of the Republic of Serbia relax a little, a budget rebalance was passed so that someone would not go to jail. Although I am one of the people who can use the hard word, but the word that is true, it can hurt and only hold the ears of those who find themselves in those words, but what is true – that our public finances are deeply sick, deeply burdened, deeply infected. Infected and committed, but also by inaction. Infected by the fact that only through the loss of privatisation incomes we had losses in billions of dinars: 2010 – 35.6, 2011 – 37, 2012 – 20.4. When we add to that figure all the burdens that our companies had to restructure the rules and make still, because they were irresponsible, incompetent, and the governments were full of ignorance, they had nothing but what the companies had to do with restructuring. I'm sure a large number of citizens are creeped out by the idea of privatisation, restructuring. One good part and he doesn't understand what that means. But restructuring means that a company with which you don't know what you're going to do, you can't privatize it, you can't interfere with capitalizing, you can't get a strategic partner, you put it on the budget. Messages are sent to employees – working, not working, playing radio. You don't have to work, you don't have to pay taxes, you don't have to work, you don't have to pay any obligations, someone comes from the government, you bring a suitcase of money to pay salaries that aren't big, and that way our economy and one good part of the economy is put to sleep. All this costs, 750m euros a year for 161 firms in restructuring, plus $8.5m, how much the monthly liabilities towards Sartid, with ignorance, irresponsibility, inertness, for these companies to find strategic partners, have deeply infected and sickened our public finances because, apart from these losses, our privatisation incomes, cost us both directly for the salaries and obligations of these companies. That is why I support the government's courage to promise, and in the first 100 days, to fulfill and adopt a new Law on Privatisation, which has spread and enabled a much greater range of opportunities to privatise and find strategic partners, but also to send a clear message that those who are inert, those who are slow, through the law of bankruptcy, are materialised as soon as possible. The rescue of banks is a special story, a story that has its finals in the prosecution at the places where investigations are being conducted, but I can safely say that this government of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS, has no responsibility for the destruction of Agrobank, the Business Bank of Belgrade, the Vojvodine Development Bank, in which they have been entrusted with the former regime's membership card as they entered their home, opening the vault without showing a personal map, amounting to as much as they needed, guaranteed with an honorable word. Or some other, more trivia stuff, and we saw it from Mr. Martinovic's exposure in the days behind us that guarantees for credits received were even some siphons. That rescue cost us billions of dinars every year. The activated guarantees of those who are so concerned about the future of pensioners and citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the years when they supported the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, and the guarantees grew rapidly, from 4.6 billion in 2008, 6.2 billion in 2009, 7.1 billion in 2011, 8.5 in 2012, 21.8 billion dinars. Then you're asking why he jumped public debt? Because of what was spent and because of those guys who made the bill and ate and drank, and then they came out of the bar. Growth in interest expenditure, terrible data. Since 2008, two billion, in 2009, 9.2 billion, in 2010, 13.8 billion, 20.1, 25.4, now over 70 billion, this year, or next year, Mr. Vujovic, correct me, but this amount of interest on the loans that he took from the former regime, which he spent, I don't know where, because I don't see corridors, railways, or roads, I don't see any new jobs, but these jobs have been lost in hundreds. I don't see what's been done with all the credits and interest that this government has now to repay and pay other people's bills. They paralyze the ears of the words where the friends we're looking for on all sides of the world meet here on the knife. We do not need friends from the United Arab Emirates, with whom we have solved a large company, such as "Er Serbia", from losers in one year, in nine months, to profit from a million euros. It may not be much, but it'll be better, I'm sure, in the next period. All this and much more that Mr Vukic pointed out today has brought, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to see what progress in growth and public debt and deficits relative to gross social product. In 2008, 2.6%, 4.5% in 2009, 4.8%, 5.0%, 6.6% in 2010. Debt growth relative to GDP from 29.2% to over 60% in 2012. In orderly countries or less arranged, but with serious governments, when the deficit is growing three years in a row, in that third year, the lights are on and they say, "Stop, we have to do something, we have to save, the measures have to be introduced." The lamp was supposed to turn on in Serbia in 2010. No, instead of that red light, instead of those measures that were arranged that year and countries that recognized the crisis, the former regime has given us, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, pink glasses. We were bombed to live well, to make everything great. As Mirko Cvetkovic said - we are statistically out of the crisis, only citizens will not feel it. There were some hard words here today. There were difficult words from political hatred, but also from a lack of understanding. The government of the Republic of Serbia is not experimenting, nor do we humiliate the citizens of Serbia that some of them are experienced rabbits, rabbits. No, these are people who live hard in Serbia, who have lost their jobs. There are 400,000 people left out of work during the DS government and Mirko Cvetkovic, a former regime in any aggregate state. Now, the measures this Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to implement are not experimental drugs, but the medicine seen in countries that have recognized the crisis and which have had an answer to the crisis. The Latvian has cut 30 percent of the salary. The number of public sector employees has been reduced, VAT has increased from 18% to 22%, income tax from 23% to 26% and a series of measures Latvia has made. Estonia -- wages were reduced by 15% to 25%, VAT increased from 18% to 20%, employment rationalization. Lithuania, the Baltic countries, EU members, have applied these medicines that are necessary for us to swallow this year, which we were supposed to swallow in 2010. I wish we'd done it. Maybe my party wouldn't be able to win the election, but my country would be better off. Because of political weakness, lack of courage, thinking about trivial things and winning elections, they should not have applied these measures applied by the Baltic countries in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Lithuania has reduced the number of public sector employees by 10%, pensions decreased by 11%, VAT increased from 18% to 21%. Romania, the neighbouring country, EU member, has reduced wages 25% and VAT has increased from 19% to 24%. Portugal - a 20% reduction in wages, pensions decreased by 12%, and VAT increased from 21% to 23%. Dear citizens, those who have time and will to follow us in this 12-13 hour debate and debate, the drugs that the Government of the Republic of Serbia courageously puts into the hands of each of us are the drugs that have been checked in these countries that I have told you about. The promises made in the pre-election campaign, but also afterwards in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia's government were difficult measures, and these are difficult measures. We spent this time, not thinking about future elections, but thinking and fighting that 61% of the pensioners with the lowest incomes, although these countries did not take care of it, in Serbia 61% of the pensioners with the lowest incomes will not feel the measures proposed. The largest number of employees will not feel these measures. But I can't accept that someone pointing a finger at the government of the Republic of Serbia, at the SNS, at Alexander Vukic that he wanted to experiment, even though the one pointing the finger didn't even know how, and that he knew how, he shouldn't have wanted to carry out these measures. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this is a cure and these drugs are drugs that produce results. In Ireland, before these measures, the budget deficit was up to an incredible 29.3% in 2010, and in 2013, the deficit was reduced and six times lower, so it is 4.2%. So he's six times smaller. In Greece, with 15.6% of deficits reduced to 2.7% similar measures. He's in Spain from 11.1 to 3%. In Latvia, which I mentioned, 7.8% of this year's budget deficit is 0.8%. I'm telling you both about those and I'm telling you, no matter how difficult the attacks are and how much desire it is for the SNS to shut up about those who have infected our public finances with irresponsibility and irresponsibility, I'm going to keep on saying, but I'm also going to say that these drugs that we're going to do in the next two years are drugs that gave effect both in Portugal and Estonia and Romania. I am talking to you about European countries, EU countries, the EU towards which Serbia is taking big and fast steps. I am sure that over the next two years we will talk about positive effects, because if they have given positive effects in these countries, they will also give positive effects in Serbia. None of us woke up one morning and said – we'll cut pensions, we'll cut salaries, we need cars to drive to Metropolis and break them down to 700-800 meters. No one thought to cut salaries and pensions to buy 70,000 euros for director Krusika. We're doing all this to normalise public finances, to open our perspective to investors, to make a deal with the International Monetary Fund, which is the former, which the former government and the former regime have driven out of this country, forcing us into a kind of isolation. Serbia wants, Serbia can and Serbia wants to be a partner, Serbia wants to, Serbia wants to, and Serbia can be a normal, decent, promising country, and I am sure by 2020 and a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11646	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened to everything and everything from my fellow MPs who have criticised this rebalancing and these measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia predicts. One of the MPs stood up and said -- how come the 2012 budget had a 15.7 billion debt, and now it's 21 billion? Here's a simple bill. Nine hundred million is interest, at 15.7 billion debt, 2012, 2014, two billion and 700 million. If we add to that debt the damage we had to cover from the budget related to Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank, we come from the fact that this government has a real deficit below 3% at the level of the year. That all that's going on right now is nothing but paying off some other people's obligations, some other people's debts, some other people's reckless moves. I can't understand what kind of mind that can be human, that, for the sake of survival in power or four years of new power, or the hands of one authority, puts it above the fate of seven million people. Everyone who defends that policy should be ashamed. Seven million fates. If these measures were not to be passed, here I have tried through all discussions of fellow Members to hear at least the only other way that is feasible and realistic, how to get out of the crisis. No one gave an answer. Nobody. The only thing we have left is to start saving, but when you enter austerity measures, you have to take care of a few things. First of all, those on whom you're going to save to give them at least the minimum of dignity that others have, it's that with excessive austerity measures, you don't pull the state into recession. Don't drag the economy into recession. I think these proposed measures are something that's between what those who say should perform more sharply and what some others say we don't need, that we can continue to live like this for a few more years. If this hair were irresponsible, we could sell Elektroprivreda, Telecom, Belgrade Airport and finance four more years of government, but I'm asking what after that? Someone said to remember our speeches why we criticized the privatisation methods we're now conducting. So because when some privatisations were made between 2003 and 2012, the choice was much better and the chosen solutions were the worst. Now, because of the state situation, the worst solutions from 2003 to 2012 are today the only ones. Don't stay away from that responsibility. The results of the privatisation will not be mentioned, but in addition to the sale of the property, the public debt has grown slowly but certainly and we have come to that level when more due to the service of public debt, which was found in 2012, we have to take some more radical moves. It's tried everything, with an increase in tax rates, changes in various basics and ways of taxation. All that didn't give those results that were expected. Now this is all that's left. Stories about the tax administration, I would ask colleagues who criticise the work of the tax administration, and they are representatives of the former regime, not to enter that story, because you will soon have the opportunity to learn about the tax administration we had until 2012 and which tax debtors are placed in the drawer, that their tax never be charged. How many out-of-date tax claims are there from that time when you were in power? I understand, and I'm willing to say, if we make a mistake somewhere, to admit that guilt, but I can't understand that all those consequences that are bad and that some other policy has been implemented, you blame the SNS. Don't. Make sure we don't fight it. Accept that part of responsibility already. It'll be a long time before the citizens forgive you. Retiring pensions is the hardest step. I listened to my colleagues read what was said in the election campaigns. Why don't you say that the damage to the elemental accident is bigger than we're going to have pension savings? Why don't you say so? Why are you hiding it? Those promises were made before the elemental accident. Why don't you accept that? I would never do that. Even when I sinned as a national MP to the opposition, I was convinced that I was telling the truth, and it was rare that I was wrong, because I was asking questions in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 who was going to repay the loans when the National Assembly was giving guarantees on the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11648	Time, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11649	I'm done. It seems to me that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will have to repay these loans from those years by reducing their pensions by cutting their salaries in the public sector. Are these measures enough? No, but it's air capture until we recover the economy and infrastructure that you've left us in despair, and then we can talk about development and a better society. Unfortunately, it's such a shame that none, two years or so, is enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-24-0.u11650	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Since no more than the president, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes a word, according to Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled single search on draft laws, i.e. decisions referred to in points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. Continuing Sunday, 10:00 p.m.
