ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the Minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 186 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request information or explanations in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3976	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for my first question today to you, Madam President, and I expect a written answer from you. On July 7th 2005, the European Parliament adopted a Resolution on Srebrenica, declaring it the Day of Remembrance of Genocide Victims in Srebrenica and urging all members and candidate states to do the same. This July 11th, all the institutions and officials of the Serbian state, the countries that are candidates for EU membership, kept silent. Not a single word of conviction or condolences is sent to victims, families of victims, or the state of BiH. As a man, as a Bosniak MP and as a member of this parliament, I cannot and will not allow the parliament he is sitting in to pass without a single word of condemnation, a genocide committed against Bosniaks in Srebrenica. Without condemnation of all social and political processes and phenomena, which have led to the formation of awareness that the achievement of their own, national interests and objectives can be achieved by threats, banishing and killing others and different ones. I remind you all of the Declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on Srebrenica, adopted on 31 March 2010. I also remind you of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which determines the integrity of human life and dignity, and I remind you that Serbia as a member of the UN, is a signator of the universal Declaration of Human Rights and numerous other international documents, which accepted basic universal civilization values on paper, such as the integrity of human life. This is on paper. What do we have in the field today? This year, all the institutions of the Serbian state have harshly ignored this day, and in cities around Serbia are experiencing extremes that glorify genocide and genocide perpetrators, disdaining victims and threatening those who raise their voice for justice and reconciliation. Last year, the parliament came out with a press release to insisting on SDA Sandzak's MPs, while all other state institutions and officials kept quiet. This year, Parliament has shut up and I ask you why. Just because you pretend nothing happened doesn't mean it didn't actually happen. All this brings me to another question that I refer to the Prime Minister, the Ministers of Justice and the Police and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. During the nationalist outbursts in Valjevo and the attack on "The Women in Black", I quote: "Oh Pazar, the new Vukovar! Oj Sjenice, new Srebrenica." The state did not react when threats to citizens of Novi Pazar and Sjenica were sent from Republika Srpska. I ask, will they react today when these threats are referred to from Serbia? Has the state done anything against persons who have openly spread religious and national hatred in this way, against those who threaten and publicly call for the killing and genocide of citizens of this country living in Novi Pazar and Sjenica? This is a public call to kill, and the state is silent. What's worse, nobody notices those threats, everyone pretends they haven't heard them, that it's something normal to say. What kind of message does the state send to its citizens in Novi Pazar and Sjenica? I ask the same ministers, who were the faces, who were glued to the posters in downtown Belgrade by Ratko Mladic with a message -- generalal, thank you for Srebrenica? What kind of a sick mind can thank itself for such a horror and what kind of sick mind is now walking free on the streets, on the same streets, walking normal and honest people? If this is the result of having only one brief press release last year on Srebrenica, I ask what we can expect next year when these extremes realize that the state and its officials have nothing to say against what happened. These are serious phenomena, serious threats and I see in it the responsibility of the state, its institutions and officials, who, with their silence, open up a space for spreading fascist ideas. I'll remind you, there was a genocide committed in Srebrenica against the Bosniaks, and July 11th is the day of recalling the Bosniaks, the victims of the genocide in Srebrenica, and we remember that no one has ever been and no one has been told what happened to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3977	Please don't throw it away. The question is Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3978	Madam Chairman, my question is for the Minister of Health. According to the SP-DHSS, all previous health ministers pointed to an inadmissible number of citizens, currently around 60,000 citizens are on various waiting lists for medical interventions. No previous health minister wanted to systematically address the problem, a major health problem, 60,000 Serbian citizens. In fact, 7,500 of our citizens are currently waiting for one of the operations in the field of cardio-surgery, and in that part, we are, as far as mortality is concerned, on the negative list, the largest in Europe. In Serbian clinics, about 5,000 interventions a year, with 10% increase in interventions, would increase by 500 operations on an annual basis, and we would have a largely reduced waiting list. The Nis clinic has the most modern equipment for this type of intervention, while hospitals, Užice with some personnel reinforcements and investments of up to 200,000 euros, the hospital would be qualified for this type of intervention. Many experts who know this issue think that system solutions to the waiting list in six months would almost disappear, but it should be said honestly that they exist everywhere in the world and that our allocations to the health system are small and should not be expected to disappear waiting lists. In addition to personnel solutions, equipment and unscheduledness, but there is a suspicion that there are deliberate waiting lists due to diverse and private interventions and other illegal actions, we believe that the health ministry's task is to systematically approach the solution to this problem. Let's just say, there's a lot of waiting to be checked out at the magnetic resonance, even at the University Clinic at Tirshaw's clinic. There is also a need for anesthesia and instead of trained anesthesiologists for this type of intervention, anesthesiologists from the O.R. are used, but it is unacceptable for our youngest patients to be due to a lack of personnel, due to the absence of a systemic solution to be deprived of timely medical interventions. Thirty-eight centres in Serbia are installing an artificial hip, in 15 centres of artificial knees, but an average of one or two years is expected for these interventions. However, it is fair to say that 70% of patients respond to artificial hip implantation and only 30% of patients on artificial knee implantation. On radio therapy is only waiting in Nis and Sremski Kamenica until one radio therapy machine works in Kragujevac and there is a absence of a system solution, because the previous health minister did not want to conclude service contracts regularly and to deal with the supply of equipment. What we expect from the new health minister is for this problem to be solved. The second problem, in addition to the cataract surgery, is expected, say, at the Vojvodina Clinical Centre, five thousand patients are waiting for surgery, at the eye clinic of three thousand patients, in Pančev the cataract operation is scheduled for 2017, in Cačka and Novi Sad for 2018, and in the Clinical Centre of Serbia for 2016. The other problem is the lack of personnel, anesthesiologists, radiologists, pathologists, even pediatricians. We think the Minister of Health should deal with this problem as well. My specific questions are the following – what will the Ministry of Health do to solve the waiting list systemically? Then what will be done about the purchase of new appliances and the regular service of devices necessary for diagnostics and treatment, which are often in pairs? Third, what will the Ministry of Health do to systematically address the lack of necessary personnel to treat our citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3979	The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3980	Your Honor, I'd like to ask the Secretary of Defense and the Chief of Staff. As you know, at one of the previous sessions of the Assembly, a decision has been taken to refer our soldiers and officers to missions abroad, in line with the contracts that our country has. One of those contracts, one of those missions is a mission in Lebanon. If you followed the events in the Middle East in the previous days, you can see that the situation was complicated in Israel, and in 2006, after the conflict that Israel had then had against the Palestinian Hamas, there was also an intervention of Israel in Lebanon, which was wartime, it took some lives, and my question was whether a new security assessment of the development of the situation was made? Are the soldiers of the Republic of Serbia in danger? They are, to remind you 143 at this time on a mission in Lebanon. Is the state of Serbia taking measures to ensure that security is compromised, in order to ensure their safety? That is why I believe that the defence minister, as well as the director, or the VOA chief who makes this kind of information, needs not only me but also all MPs to give notice of the latest developments in the situation, so that we, who have made the decision to have these young people go there, know what security risks are at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3981	The word is Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3982	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, today I will ask the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health on several issues, on several issues. The first issue is the problem of cancer patients who cannot adequately be treated in the state of Serbia and the problem exists for several years. I pointed out this problem in this House three years ago, we scheduled a Health and Family Committee where we reached some conclusions and a resolution ministry did not respect the decisions of the Assembly Committee on Health and Family, which clearly said that we must buy new air therapy apparatus for the Clinical Centre in Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Belgrade and Nis. Namely, what many citizens know, and what the republican administration in the Health Sector does not know that many of our sick patients who suffer from cancer are waiting for more than three months to get to air therapy. I'll tell you as a doctor and especially as a specialist in head and neck tumor surgery that world standards are that after three weeks of surgery you have to start air therapy. Unfortunately, the period extended to more than three months in Serbia. In Nis, there are in particular 530 Serbian citizens who have some kind of malignant tumor waiting to come to order for several months, waiting to have a chance of healing. I believe that this topic is very important and that we should not slip it out of the calling and calling for new parliaments and the Ministry of Health, but that we should very seriously approach this problem, because many patients with malignant tumours do not welcome the day when it will come for air therapy. It is a subject that hurts Vojvodina, a topic that hurts Southeast Serbia, a topic that hurts central and western Serbia because it is waiting for air therapy in Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Nis for more than three to three and a half months. What I want to point out as a problem in the diagnosis of cancer patients is that it's been waiting a long time for a patho-histological drug after a tumor tissue biopsy. It is unacceptable to wait for more than a month and a half or two days on a patho-histological apparatus, as it is waiting in many hospitals in Serbia. These are the things that require a rapid reaction from the Ministry of Health, so that our patients who suffer from the most severe diseases have the right to a chance to live. I'll take the opportunity to ask another question. Minister Vulin is here, last week we had a chance to be together at a conference, a national conference for people with disabilities and the main problem of the National Association of Persons with Disabilities, and I want to say, one of the main concerns is that many local self-governments have abolished personal assistants who help people with disabilities. My dear colleagues and colleagues, personal assistants literally mean life to these people who are forced to be in their wheelchair. Many of them can't move their hands, many of them can't move their hands and legs and they can't drink water without them, let alone move in bed. Personal assistants are needed over. The town of Nis and in this assembly, although not run by the DS, continued to fund personal assistants, but much greater environments than Nis, the City of Belgrade, some other environments have abolished funds for personal assistants for people who help people with disabilities. It's something that is appeal to you, Ministers, to find a solution together with the mayors to bring these personal assistants back to people who are tied to their disease in a wheelchair and that they have a chance to have a more decent and much more humane life on. I'm finishing up with one more question. To the Director of the Republic Fund, Mr Babic, I want you to give me the names of the people who are members of the Republic Commission, the first-degree Republic Commission, the Republic Fund and the second-degree commission. I have witnessed that in recent years the Republic Fund has acted above the Ministry of Health, that it is above the decisions of the professional colleges in Banjaca, the Clinical Centre of Serbia, so I ask the question – I demand that the names of people who are allowed to reject the most professional bodies of the Consulium of Banjaca, a consulate from Zurich, a consulate of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, I want to have the names of these people, to see who these people so easily reject the decisions of the expert commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3983	Thank you. The word is Dr Nebojsa Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3984	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, my parliamentary question has been addressed to the minister of justice, Mr Nikola Selakovic, and it refers to the privatisation process in Serbia, and in the domain of the ministry headed by Mr Selakovic. The question contains several sub-questions. How many criminal charges have been filed against participants in privatisation proceedings between 12 February 2001 and 31 December 2013? How many privatisation procedures, or privatisation entities, are covered by these criminal reports? How many of these criminal charges have been prosecuted, or with a request to conduct an investigation, or by pressing charges? How many criminal cases have been completed? Why February 12, 2001? On February 12, 2001, in this home, the majority of them brought amendments to the Privatisation Act, which was adopted in 1997, and those amendments and additions were stopped by the privatisation process under the law in 1997 and deleted all those members of the laws relating to labour action. Free division of actions has been abolished and thus it is impossible for workers to continue to own over the means of work they have created and acquired for years. Today, we have a flood of care for workers' rights, and it is the majority that is now so stretching as a worker's rights protector that, by passing that law, has made it impossible for workers to remain owners of what they acquired during their working life. I'm going to give just one example of one such privatisation that shows what kind of relationship today's civil servants had to do with workers' rights. This is the privatisation of the 2004 Veterinary Institute, which had in the tender as participants on one side of Zekstra, and on the other hand small shareholders, i.e., probably one of the few examples that the workers of the then and those former pensioners were able to gather and participate as one of the bidders in the tender. The tender, of course, as you all know, has won the company "Zekstra". To question the then Minister of Economy and Privatisation to Mr. Alexander Vlahovic, a member of a party that is also a member of the Socialist International, as it is and why it is not possible in Serbia that workers, shareholders of the victory in one tender, respond – because workers are the relapses of socialism. We could discuss this ideological category or attitude, but today is not the time or topic on the parliamentary issue. At the time, the director of the Privatisation Agency, also Mr. Comrade, soon became Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. So my question is neither systematic nor statistical, it is essential and it represents a relationship to the responsibilities of all those who have done so, either by inaction, or by participating in their direct or indirect lead to social property, the state capital in that period being so harsh, in such a non-democratic way being transferred into the hands of individuals, who today call themselves more capitalists, but only because they have increased their personal capital, not because they possess serious, large companies and companies that produce something and employ something. We in the Socialist Movement really appreciate...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3985	Time, MP. It's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3986	... The relationship of the SNS to this issue. In order to become a normal and legal state, we must bring him to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3987	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladimir Pavicevic, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, Aleksandar Senic, Mladen Grujic and Branko Ružic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representative of Proposals Alexander Vulin, Minister for Labour, Employment, Borajan and Social Affairs, I have also called on the sittings to attend: Aleksandar Stojanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Borajan and Social Affairs, Zoran Lazić, Assistant Minister for Labour, Employment, Labour and Social Affairs, and Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda as soon as possible, set out in the Government's request to hold an extraordinary session. Logs have been sent to you: Second, Third and Fourth Sessions of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, Third and Fourth Special Sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 and the session of the Second, Third and Fourth Extra session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Immunity Issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted such a written statement of objection to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 10, 12, 13, 14, 21, 22 and 23 May 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 32 of the 215 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 20 May 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 182, no one, with abstentions, voted 34 of the 216 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30 May 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 184, no one, with abstentions, voted 32 of the 216 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the fourth session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 29 May 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 181, no one, with abstentions, voted 36 of the total of 217 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 5 and 6 June 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -182, no one, with abstentions, voted 35 of the total of 217 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 9, 10, 12 and 13 June 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -182, no one, with abstentions, voted 35 of the total of 217 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 17, 18 and 19 June 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -181, no one, with abstentions, voted 36 of the total of 217 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 27 and 29 June 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -184, no one, with abstentions, voted 33 of the total of 217 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have also been delivered to you the request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in 2014, the following Dn e n e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act; 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance; 3. Proposal for a Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia; 4.A report on the elemental disaster – the flood that hit the Republic of Serbia and the measures taken to save the population and the defence of vulnerable areas from floods. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. On what basis do you want the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3988	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 97.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3989	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3990	So, given that the government has submitted these draft laws within an extremely short period of time, without any public debate, and because of the importance for the development of our society and the state interest, we are asking that the Assembly be made known about the proposal to double the time of debate for parliamentary groups, just because we know that these are very important laws and that they have caused a lot of controversy in our public. We believe that MPs should have more time to discuss and have more time to express their agreement or disagreement on these laws, which the government has explicitly delivered to the Assembly, not wanting any public debate and any critical tone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3991	We have not yet established a merger of the agenda, but we will now put to the vote by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I am voting on the proposal of the president of the DS Parliamentary Group, Borislav Stefanovic. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -31, against -no one with abstentions - has voted a total of 31 MPs, has not voted 188 of the 219 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted a motion to extend the debate for several hours. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 2(2). 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out: - a joint principled search on: a draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, which was submitted by the Government on 12 July 2014 and a draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, which was submitted by the Government, and - a joint principle and uniform search on: a bill on the removal of floods in the Republic of Serbia and the Report on the elemental disaster – a flood that hit the Republic of Serbia and the measures taken to save the population and the defence of floods, which the Government submitted on 2 July 2014. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 180, against -23, abstentions - no, 16 of the 219 MPs present were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. Dear People’s MPs, before we continue to work, need the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 279. The Rules of Procedure finds the resignation of a member of the Government. You have accepted the resignation of a member of the government of Lazar Krstic as finance minister. On the basis of Article 133. Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 23(2). The Government Act and Article 279. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly finds that Lazar Krstic resigned as Finance Minister and that the minister's mandate ended. You have received the resignation of the People's MP, Professor Petar Skundric, as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that a case under Article 88(2) has taken place. The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with this Article, and pursuant to Article 88(2), point 2 and Article 3 and Article 4 respectively. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office, before the time to which it was elected, has ceased, was passed, on the day of the resignation of Prof. Dr. Petar Škundric, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 1 and 2 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. Does the representative of Proposer Alexander Vulin, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3992	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, we have a very important legislative proposal, namely very important changes and additions to the Labour Act. The draft labour law aims primarily to create conditions for the existence of a business environment that will allow foreign and domestic investment to grow, speed up economic restructuring and increase productivity and competitiveness of our economy. The existing Labour Act was adopted in 2005 and during all that time it has shown a significant number of shortcomings, sometimes inaccuracies, indifference, as well as the need to improve labour law institutions, which would contribute to a more complete protection of employees' rights, but of course the need for business. This law has not contributed to a more favourable business environment, especially the creation of new jobs, and on the other hand has failed to prevent the loss of jobs by a large number of employees. The process of Serbia's EU accession requires the revision of existing legal solutions to continue to be brought into line with the basic rights of employees guaranteed by a number of International Labour Organisation conventions ratified by the Republic of Serbia and which are an integral part of its legal order. The reasons for amending the laws, which are related to the needs of the economy, are reflected in the fact that labour legislation affects the functioning of economic operators, business costs, earnings, other receipts, administrative transactions in the employer, the relationship between the employer and the employees, etc. The necessary improvement of the legislative framework should contribute to attracting business and investment in Serbia, as well as overcoming the economic crisis. Simply put, we need to increase employment. The proposal for changes to labour legislation cannot be managed solely by the needs of the economy. They must also be focused on establishing a balance between the interests of employees and employers. In this respect, the amendments to the law pay particular attention to the preservation and improvement of the protection of the interests of employees and their fundamental right to adequate work compensation, limited working time, paid vacation and other absences, protection against discrimination, protection and material support from loss of work, the right to collective and individual protection of employees, the right to collective bargaining and inform employees, both directly and through their trade union representatives. The main amendments that this law will make concern the way in which severance is calculated, the precision of the conditions under which it is possible to resign, the more detailed regulation of the legal consequences of illegal dismissal, the protection of maternity and persons with disabilities, the more effective exercise of inspection supervision. In line with the government's firm definitions, this law has been partially harmonised with EU directives, which regulate the organisation of working time, work with part-time, work on a given time and obligation of the employer to inform employees of the conditions applicable to the labour contract or working relationship itself. Amendments and additions to this part encourage collective bargaining of goodwill. The basic instrument for regulating the rights and obligations of employees is a collective contract. This paper was introduced that the employer could not adopt the labour rules unless the union's initiative to join collective bargaining was adopted. The importance of social dialogue for each society is undeniable, as it aims to prevent conflict, achieve social consensus, build trust between different stakeholders and faster economic prosperity. These changes and additions allow for greater protection of employees, primarily through the obligation of the employer to notify employees of the conditions applicable to the labour contract: mandatory delivery of a copy of the employment contract after its signing, which has not been the case so far. Also, in order to protect employees, it was done to specify the obligation of basic labour contracts, and in line with international standards, while disbursing the economy through the abolition of unnecessary administration. Working on black represents one of the burning problems of our economy, and of which the workers and states have damages, but also employers who are legally operating, so they are very difficult to deal with with unreal competition. Therefore, special attention is paid to the fight against black labour. In this regard, in order to control the legality of work, a obligation has been introduced to keep work contracts and all other contracts in place of employment. This ensures preventing the abuse of workers through working on black, while stressing the viability of new employment. In current practice, a working relationship for a certain period was based on a year, and at the end of that period it was interrupted and replaced by a non-work relationship contract, a temporary and occasional contract, which is more unfavourable for the employee, because during the out-of-work relationship contract, not all the rights that were exercised by the labour contract are realised. The proposed solution provides the employer with the possibility to conclude a contract for a certain period of up to 24 months, and under certain conditions for up to three years, which would greatly improve the labour market situation, and thus encourage employment. A significant newspaper that enables employment for a certain period of time of persons who fall within the category of more employable ones, which are persons who meet one of the conditions for obtaining pension rights, but who are missing five years. It is also a significant provision that allows newly established employers to work for a certain period of up to 36 months until business reaches a certain level, when the same employer can employ persons for a certain time, on the one hand, and enables employees to have a certain status of employees for a longer period of time, allowing them to plan possible borrowing with banks, loans, etc. There is also a case for the conclusion of a work contract at a certain time to work on projects, as well as a case for the employment of foreigners who have time-limited residence permits, which has created major problems in practice so far. This solution is adapted to developments in the labour market and the existing economic environment. It is estimated that in this legal framework employers would opt to establish a working relationship for a certain time and not resort to other types of employment that are more unfavourable for employees or, worse still, to work on black. The needs of working hours specify the terms of working time, full and not full-time, as well as overtime, which is to be coordinated with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe 2003/88 in the work relating to the way in which work is defined and the length of overtime. The right to a 30-minute vacation has an employee who works at least six hours a day, not just a full-time employee. Also, an employee who works longer than 10 hours a day has the right to rest during work for 45 minutes. The right to a Sunday vacation is extended to 36 hours, continuously, and the vacation between two working days is divided into 11 hours, instead of the 10 hours so far. A provision has been amended to define the annual vacation and aims to increase the guarantee of the right to an annual vacation, shorter time limits for the right to an annual vacation, instead of six months, are now gaining the right to an annual vacation after one month of work, of course, proportionately, with the possibility to use on the request of a working vacation in several parts, as well as compensation for damages only in the event of termination of a working relationship, which is the alignment with the Convention of the Sea 132 on the paid annual leave. It removes the possibility of transferring annual vacations from one employer to another, which in practice created major problems and burdened the new employer in terms of the obligation to enable the employee to take advantage of the annual leave, although it was acquired by another employer. It is the obligation of each employer to allow the employee to enjoy a corresponding vacation, not to transfer that obligation to another employer. In order to relieve the employer of unnecessary administration, the possibility of delivering an annual holiday solution in electronic form has been introduced. The way to make a solution in the case of using an annual vacation in an employer or part of an employer is simplified. The protection of employees is certainly enhanced. Specially enhanced is the protection of motherhood and people with disabilities. With regard to the protection of motherhood, it is proposed that protection be extended to a child-feeding employee. So, not just on the pregnant woman, but on the nurse. It is suggested that a woman who is employed during pregnancy, as well as an employee who is nursing a child, cannot work overtime and at night, if such work would be harmful to her health and child health. It was also introduced that during pregnancy an employee is entitled to a paid leave of work during the day to carry out health checks on the pregnancy of the chosen physician and, in accordance with the law, to inform the employer in good time. None of this has been the case before. As regards the protection of healthcare professionals and disabled persons, the employer’s obligation to provide them with other relevant work has been introduced. In the event that the employer does not have a suitable job, the employee may cancel a working contract based on a technical surplus with the obligation to pay the severance payment or to provide an adequate job with another employer. This solution is certainly more favourable for this category of employees, because so far they have not had the right to pay the severance payment in these cases, but could stop the employment relationship because they do not have the necessary capacity to carry out the work they do by law is prescribed a cancellation period without payment of the severance payment. In order to avoid cumulatively determining the increase in earnings based on work nights and work on shifts, the right to increase earnings based on work in shifts has been deleted, but it is determined that they are an employer and an employee, i.e. that the employer and the union may and should arrange this area in accordance with the general act and contract of work, therefore, by collective agreement. Not every shift work is the same, and that's why it can't be regulated the same way. In this way, trade unions and employers are allowed to agree that due to the specificity of the business or the conditions in which the operations are carried out, shift work is further valued through profit increases, if it cannot be fully valued through basic earnings. A precision was made so that the increase in earnings for past work is calculated at least 0.4% of the base, with the increase in earnings based on past work as a reward for the employer's loyalty being calculated only on the basis of the time spent in the work relationship with the last employer. Employer, predecessor in the case of status changes in related persons, holding and competing in accordance with the law. The method of determining minimum earnings is specified by determining it on the basis of the minimum labour price and time spent on work, which includes taxes and contributions paid from earnings. The employer's obligation to establish, on its own or in collaboration with trade unions, the reason for the decision to introduce minimum earnings, as well as the obligation of the employer to notify the representative union of the reasons for continuing payment of minimum earnings at the end of the six months following the decision to introduce minimum earnings. This means that, in any case, the introduction of minimum earnings may be subject to control and dispute by employees, trade unions, and in order to prevent the unwarranted introduction of low earnings. It is explicitly foreseen that an employee who receives minimum earnings must pay an increased salary for working on the day of the holiday, which is a day off, for working at night, for overtime, and on the basis of past work. A change in the reference period for the calculation of earnings fees was made from three to 12 months. This is because, according to the current solution, employees who were absent from work and on the basis of the name of the remuneration in relation to the period during the year, when the right to the remuneration is realised. We believe that this will make the profit system fairer and more efficient, given that as a reference period, profits will be made throughout the year. The employer’s obligation to determine the severance of at least two average earnings in accordance with the general act has been established. An important solution obliging the employer to pay at least three times the average income in the Republic of Serbia for the employee who wants to hire persons with experience and who are most often persons before retirement. Also, in practice, this created a problem for small employers, as well as employers with financial difficulties that were imposed on paybacks that exceeded the amount of earnings the employee had received in the last six months. Also, in order to reduce the costs of the administration in accordance with the employer's technical capabilities, it is possible for the calculation of earnings and full-time earnings to be delivered to the employees in electronic form. The most significant newspaper in the Labour Act is that the profit and income bill the employer is obliged to pay to the employee represents an executive correction. This means that employees will be able to obtain their unpaid earnings in an executive procedure without having to conduct a long court dispute. The employee finally becomes the owner of his earnings, and the number of court proceedings over outstanding earnings will, without a doubt, be reduced. In addition, in order to prevent possible abuse, it is envisaged that an employee to whom earnings and earnings are paid in accordance with the bill retains the right to challenge the legality of that right before the competent court. The main objective of these changes was to prevent abuses, which took place in practice, to repeatedly pay compensation to the same employee for the whole working life. At the same time, limiting the payment of severance payments only to a period carried out in a working relationship with the last employer should contribute to encouraging employment, especially for older people, as categories of hard-to-employees. Employers have so far avoided hiring the elderly, precisely because of the obligation to pay compensation for the entire working century. In any event, such provisions do not restrict the employer to provide a higher amount of severance in accordance with his financial opportunities. During the payment of the severance, the time the employee spent working with the previous employer, in the case of status changes, and in the case of connected persons, concerts, holding companies, mutual participation in capital, shall be taken into account. This ensures the protection of employees who pass their will, due to a change in legal form, move to work with another employer. It is also prescribed in the transitional and final provisions that the period for which compensation is established for employees of restructured enterprises whose status has been established until the date of entry into force may be established by other regulations. Changes to the labour contract - the labour contract simplifies, the procedure for the offer of the annex, reduces unnecessary administration, but strengthens the protection of employees by introducing the right of employees to cancel work contracts in court due to the refusal of an Annex to the labour contract contract offer, also challenges the legality of the labour contract itself. The possibility of moving to other emergency jobs, without annexing work contracts up to 45 days within 12 months, has been introduced, where an employee retains his basic earnings, if that is more favourable for him. Due to the need for practice, more specifically, that some of the most common cases relating to the working ability of the employee and his behaviour, disrespect for work discipline, or possible violation of the work obligation, these provisions are also adopted. This was due to the fact that individual employers were unable to fire workers in the event of certain violations of labour obligations and disrespect of labour discipline, as these cases did not provide for general acts and employment contracts, which was a condition for the cancellation of the labour contract. In this way, the provisions relating to the reasons for the termination of employment are clearer and directly applicable, which is good for entrepreneurs and for those employers who do not have general acts, but also for all others because they reduce the possibility of abuse. This creates legal certainty for both employees and employers, because they are now clearly defined behaviours that will be sanctioned. Also, other measures have been introduced in addition to the cancellation, such as fines, distance from work and warning, which gives the employer more opportunity to impose an appropriate measure, depending on the severity of the injury, which does not necessarily have to be fired immediately, it is brand new. In the case of specific provisions, an age limit of 30 years shall be deleted to carry out temporary, occasional business with a member of a youth or student cooperative already leaves that the issue of the age limit for membership in youth and student cooperatives is prescribed by a law governing cooperatives. Provisions in the conclusion of a contract for representation and mediation are deleted, as these contracts are regulated by the Law on Liabilities and the provisions on self-employment, as the area of entrepreneurship is regulated by a special law. An important change in this part concerns the conclusion of a professional training contract and a professional training contract, in order to specify and prevent abuses in practice. So far, training contracts have often been abused by employers who have employed persons on this basis without compensation, without health and pension insurance and for many years, so security workers, porters and so on have worked below the minimum labour price, on the one hand, cutting the labour price, and on the other hand breaking their elemental first. These contracts did not serve professional training, which is now prevented by the introduction of an obligation to implement only in accordance with the programme adopted in accordance with specific regulations. The topic of which there were many conversations and which was ultimately regulated are collective agreements. The possibility of concluding a special collective contract in the territory of the Republic is determined in situations where it is the founder of public undertakings or public services of the AP or units of local self-government, it is found to be then concluded by the Government. This would meet the union's long-standing demands. The conclusion of a special collective contract for several employers, public undertakings and capital companies, the founder of which is a public undertaking and which is the conclusion of a public undertaking, i.e. a body which has authority and a representative union, is also foreseen. The conclusion of a special collective contract for athletes, trainers and sports experts is lifted, as the same basis is found in the Sport Act. It is also possible for employers to access a collective contract concluded by other employers or employers' associations. So far, employers and employers' associations have had to be members of the employers' association in order to apply the collective contract to them. This process will allow them to be users of a collective contract that did not negotiate directly with their trade unions if its provisions correspond to its financial and other options. Also, employers will be able to give up the application of this collective agreement on the basis of their decision, without a six-month notice, which binds participants to a collective contract. A provision on the extension of the fact of a collective agreement with international standards is in line. The decision on the extended effect of the collective agreement is made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal by the minister whose area the collective contract is concluded, with the opinion of the Social Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia. The conditions for extending the facts of the collective contract have been amended in the section concerning the percentage of employees, to which a collective contract is to be applied, whose fact is extended. Thus, instead of the 30% so far, it will be necessary for the collective contract to cover more than 50% of the employees in a particular activity, so that the government of the Republic of Serbia can make a decision on the expanded action. In order to ensure more effective application of the Labour Act, amendments related to the exercise of supervision, the authority of the Labour Inspectorate and the criminal provisions have also been proposed. The inspection surveillance as you can already see is certainly increased. The main reason for working on a reform of labour market regulation and early relations as an important, perhaps most important part of structural reforms is to promote and create new jobs in the private sector to preserve the necessary balance between employers and workers' interests. The ministry organised and participated in several round tables, over 20, workshops and other events where social partners and other interested parties proposed certain solutions. All proposals have been carefully considered, and those contributing to the improvement of working and business conditions have been incorporated into the test of this law. Supporting the draft law was provided by the International Labour Organisation for the proper application of international standards. She ruled everything she did, worked with the idea of compromise. We believe that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law will improve conditions and business and create the possibility of opening new jobs and transferring employees from the black economy formally. At the same time, reducing costs, the risks associated with formal employment and giving incentives to employees and employers to work and work legally will create a legal framework for achieving health-based growth. The proposed changes did not go to the expense of employees. A large number of solutions are precisely protection provisions for employees. The government did not propose this law to lay off, but to make the law modern, enforceable and to ensure the necessary balance between the world of labour and the world of capital. By adopting this law, we draw the Republic of Serbia closer to the successful and modern countries as we wish to become. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3993	Thank you. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. You're the one who's been calling after the Rules of Procedure's injury after you signed up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3994	So, I'm reporting by article 107 and 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I could also talk about the way this law came into practice, the urgency of the procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3995	Article 107 does not apply to that MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3996	I told you I was getting into the subject. However, I am advertising the Rules of Procedure for the fact that I have absolutely understood nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3997	Just tell me which member you're advertising.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3998	Article 107 and 108
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u3999	There's no such thing as an offensive expression.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4000	The holding of the session, Madam Chairman, you had to warn the Minister that the MPs would have to hear the exposés in order to make a statement about this law. Please ask the minister to read what he wrote one more time, so we can hear it. All kinds of concentration I tried to use, but I couldn't figure out a single sentence. It's a very important law. It's about the rights of workers. We have made a very serious approach to this law, we have proposed amendments. Maybe we could hear the answers to some questions in this presentation. But we couldn't do it. I don't know if the MPs of the ruling coalition who applauded understood what the minister was trying to say, but I honestly admit that I couldn't understand. Thank you and please ask the minister to read again carefully what he read.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4001	There's no such thing in the Rules of Procedure, so I'm asking the ministers to read it one way or another, so I really don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. In article 107, there is nothing about what you said, and in article 108, it says that I take care of order at the National Assembly session. It wasn't a mess. The minister read in his own way, written or oral address of the minister is common. You used the right to speak for two minutes, so I can interpret your call. Here, now use the law, you're the first to answer the word. You didn't answer the question? The word is Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. What's the member? As long as it's not 107th and 108th, please, we used that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4002	No, they're 27 and 108, and here's why.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4003	108th can't, you know, do business anymore, and 27th can. I wouldn't argue with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4004	You run the seat, do you agree? If you agree to run a session, then I think you should have done two things in this situation -- or give us a written speech by Minister Vulin, so we can read what he was talking about at a huge rate here, or ask Minister Vulin, though I know he rarely has to come to the Assembly, try a slower, more understandable way to read that letter, I suppose the prime minister to the MPs, who he had to read. Believe me, we want to understand the government's position on the laws delivered to the Assembly. Some of us understood and heard, some of us didn't, as you just heard. I think it would be very correct for you to at least intervene slightly towards the minister and ask him to read more slowly or to let some of the secretary of state read that we can hear what's going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4005	Thank you. The truth is, we saw that I had a slight intervention, so the minister got a little closer to the microphone, and then all the MPs heard the sequel. If anyone else wants to talk about this, I'm really not gonna stop you. Here you go, Ambassador Marko Djurisic. I'm sure there's been some kind of damage to the Rules of Procedure. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4006	You're trying again...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4007	Which member so I can follow and answer eventually whether I hurt or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4008	Can I finish the sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4009	You can, but you know if it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure you have to say in the address of the first member in order to allow me to monitor your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4010	I didn't answer the phone after the Rules of Procedure got hurt at all. I answered. You're going to give your word after the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4011	By hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4012	No, you told Mr. Veselinovic he could apply now to talk about the agenda point. I signed up to talk about the agenda. You read my mind again. Please don't read my mind. You told Mr. Veselinović he could speak. I'll talk at the beginning of the debate on the agenda, just let me finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4013	Aleksandar Jugovic came forward before you, so I couldn't give you my word, because it's a smaller parliamentary group. Don't put it in your voice, please. It's not nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4014	So I can get back to you later, you'll give me your word later when you open.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4015	You know the Rules of Procedure very well, you've been an MP for a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4016	I know, but you're already going to share the word, and that's why I answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4017	For the sake of the public, not the MPs, I completely understand what you want, and I understand what you want us to start discussing the Labour Act perfectly legal and legitimately. It's all right, but I didn't share a word. The word is not shared, but given by order by which the messengers appear. So the MPs raised the Rules of Procedure, and first they got the word, and now the fewer parliamentary groups first get the word, or their presidents or authorised representatives, and then you, the honourable MP, will certainly get the word when your parliamentary group comes. If you would listen, or were you just doing the talking? I give notice to MPs, to all present, not only individually, but to the public. Your colleague was the only one, not funny, and it's not funny, I really want to explain to you that there would be no confusion about having a session, the only one was Janko Vesenovic at that point registered on the list of speakers, so he got the word. I think we've explained everything now. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4018	Thank you. Dear Ministers, Honored Speakers of the Assembly, Honored colleagues and colleagues, the SPO will vote for the adoption of amendments and additions to the Labour Act, as well as for the amendment and addition of the Law on PIO. We have always advocated the adoption of systemic solutions, for systemic changes, for the introduction of a European system of values in Serbia. If Serbia wants to become part of the European family, and wants what the latest elections have shown unequivocally, since there are no anti-European parties in the Serbian parliament anymore, it must accept European standards and European labour law practices. If a Serbian worker wants to live as a European worker, then he must accept amendments to the Labour Law in order to create conditions for workers in Serbia to be rewarded, as well as for workers in the EU. Support for the adoption of the law came from an institution to which Serbia's fate is well linked, starting from the EU to investors. The obligation is therefore greater to support the government's reform step for Serbia's recovery. Only a strong Serbia can guarantee a better future for any individual who wants to work and create, and strong Serbia is impossible to create without reforms. What are the positive effects of this law I will present in further discussion. The work on a specific is limited to the longest two years. This prevents the extension of work for a certain period of time with the same employee for many years. The employer will now have two years to conclude a contract to work indefinitely with the employee. Working hours are better defined. There is no longer the possibility of abuse by employers. Standby and work on call are regulated and will be paid. The Sunday vacation was extended from 24 to 36 hours, and the vacation between two working days in the redistribution increased from 10 to 11 hours. Extra hours in redistribution will be paid as overtime. Until now, these classes have often failed for employees. A year's vacation can be used after a month's work. Abuse of fees for unused vacations is prevented. Persons with disabilities or health disorders whom the employer could not provide for another job have been fired so far because they do not have the necessary skills to work, without the payoff. Now they have the right to severance, as in the case of surpluses. They can only get fired if there's no other proper job according to their working ability. The obligation to keep a contract at the place of work is an important measure to prevent work on black. So far, employers have kept employees without a contract on black, and when the inspection was done, the excuses were that the contract was in second place with the accountant or the like, so they subsequently delivered the signed anti-dated contract. The possibility of contesting the labour contract annex, the contract cancellation dispute, is a significant measure because the employee refused to sign the annex. This provides wider judicial protection for employees. Alternative professional preparation, inability to determine more than two degrees of professional training. This prevents the abuse of university employees from working on high school work and thus getting paid. Cancellations of reasons and procedures for firing have been specified that it is good for employees. The employee knows what he can't do. This protects good workers, the interests of the employers of good workers that those who do not respect work discipline are sanctioned. Cancellation reasons do not lead to a reduction in the number of jobs but enables the employer to sanction the poor worker even by cancelling the labour contract without bringing another better worker to his post. The competences of the labour inspection - greater powers are given, it is possible to connect with the central register of compulsory social security so that the inspector can directly control whether the employee is also registered with other inspections and ministries and is able to access data from the central register. The legal consequences of illegal dismissal - it is a newspaper that distinguishes material procedural grounds on which the court makes a decision to repeal the cancellation decision. This provides legal certainty for both the employee and the employer, because the person who makes a rough mistake in working discipline will be aware that he can't go back to work. The number of disputes will be reduced. A professional training contract may only be concluded on the basis of a training programme adopted in accordance with a specific regulation. This prevents the work of black, abuse of this contract. The calculation of the earnings and earnings that the employer is obliged to deliver to the employee will constitute an executive correction. This means that if by the end of the current month the employer fails to make the payment of earnings for the previous month, an employee may submit an account to the Executive Court for the purpose of forced collection of his earnings without a previous litigation procedure. Since litigation procedures may take years, this change will allow employees to collect their claims from the employer within a short period of time. Encouraging collective bargaining -- the employer is obliged to enter into negotiations with a representative union to conclude a collective contract. The employer will no longer be able to adopt a labour rule that unilaterally regulates the rights and obligations of employees without prior attempts to speak to the trade unions and contract the working conditions of employees, only if no agreement on the rights and obligations of employees is reached in the negotiations will the employer be able to adopt the labour rules. Minimum work – more precisely criteria are set out on the basis of which a decision on minimum labour price is made and now the decision will have to be reasoned. The law now explicitly stipulates that an employee who receives minimum earnings is entitled to increased earnings, expenses and other incomes considered to be earnings. The employer’s decision to introduce minimum earnings will now enable the trade union and employees to dispute because the employer will have to establish in the labour contract and the labour or collective contract rules the reasons for this decision. At the end of the six-month period since the decision to introduce minimum earnings, the employer will have to notify the representative union of the reasons for the continued payment of minimum earnings. The protection of union representatives – so far this protection has been absolute, i.e. the employer could not change the job and offer other working conditions or declare the technical surplus. So far, the broad protection has led to the abuse of this institute. Now protection is provided to all employers in the employer because it is said that no employees can be placed in a more unfavourable position due to participation in trade union activities. I repeat again. I have listed the positive effects of this law, that the SPO parliamentary club will vote in favour of amendments and additions to the Labour Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4019	Thank you. The word is Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4020	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before I say the position of the JS Parliamentary Group on the amendment and addition of the Labour Act and the Law on PIO, I would like to remind, with a few sentences, all of us present here in the Assembly, and those who are following the transfer of this assembly that we all or most of us in this assembly and this country have decided to move towards joining the EU. In order to join the EU and become an equal member of the community of peoples of Europe, we must also imitate our legislation in EU legislation. When I say that, I mean legislation that addresses labour, labour markets, pension and disability insurance, as well as other areas of life and work in the state of Serbia. If we want to, and we want to, then I am sure that we also need these two laws that regulate the field of labour relations, the rights and obligations of workers at work, the labour market as well as the area that regulates the right to leave and use retirement, the use of pension and disability rights to imitate, as I said to EU legislation, i.e. to amend and supplement existing laws. The fact is that for several months now, especially back in the tenth, fifteen days have raised great tension throughout the public over what a new law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act is about. The fact is that this law tried to revolutionize, to use that term, changed ten years ago, but it gave up. I remember that because at that time I was also a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so for one reason or another, I would not comment, and the JS parliamentary group does not want to go back, either. We now have a law that is in place but which in many ways prevents and employs foreign investors and everything else that the state of Serbia is after, which is that as much as possible, to create new jobs, to move more freely than one employer towards others, while at the same time protecting workers working either in public services, either in private or in the employer. Given all this, I would like to say that the JS parliamentary group will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act in principle, probably in particular, not likely, but certainly. But what I'm trying to say is that we're sure that no law, so even these amendments to the Labour and Law Act PIO is an ideal legal project. There are no ideal laws. If, in the application of the adoption of these two legislative projects, we come to the knowledge, and I am sure, or the competent ministries come to the knowledge that, after certain shortcomings or problems in the application of certain provisions of the law, we will seek a new amendment or perhaps that we are offered entirely new texts of the Labour Act and the Law on PIO. I would not comment specifically on all the provisions which are new to the existing provisions of the Labour Act, as well as the Law on PIO. I would stick to a few proposed and offered solutions, which caused the most controversy and where there was disagreement in the Working Group for the preparation of laws between union representatives, employers and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First and foremost, this famous past work, or 0.4% increase in earnings by one year of internship, not past work. Given the fact that I spent many years in the economy and that I know very well, or at least I think I know what the past work is, and what is a working internship, one and the theoretical and essential question arises – what is the past work that has been paid so far? In my humble opinion, this past work was actually spent at work with one employer, or several employers, and increased by a certain percentage. Let's take an example, and I have a classic example for the citizens of Serbia to try to explain. Let's take two workers who started working with an employer on the same day, have 20 years of internships written in the booklet. One worked for all 20 years on one job, on one machine or in an office, and the other worked for 10 years, for 10 years he was in various functions, political, union, party, etc. In the profit account, they have the same salary. What a contribution to the machine of that company, in that company, which spent all 20 years with that employer, compared to the other one who worked for 10 years, for 10 years was outside the company, but at the same time, when he returned to that employer’s place of employment, he had the same right to so on. past work, like the one who worked for 20 years, maybe on shifts, maybe off shifts? So why would a new employer pay for a while with someone else? At the same time, it is certain that when new labour contracts are concluded, that the new employer will take care of the experience, of the expert preparation, of the knowledge acquired by working on certain jobs with this new worker coming from another employer and it is certain that he will not give him less money than he had where he worked and where he worked, among other things, and the right to increased earnings based on so-called. past work, or time spent at work. On the other hand, what is very important for workers and what workers will certainly welcome is that the new proposals in some provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act are now much more protected in the right to earn their earnings from the employer. That paper, which is called the profit calculation of a particular employer, is proposed by these amendments and the addition of the Labour Act, is one so-called. a public correction which he can, tomorrow, through the competent national judicial authorities, exercise a direct right to collect his earned earnings, unlike the practice so far where the workers had that paper you account for for several months and unfortunately for some employers and several years, but could not achieve the right to earn what they literally earned from that employer. That's good. It is also good to protect pregnant women and maternity mothers from these changes and additions to the law. We in JS particularly welcome this, for the reason that it is known that our policy is going to ensure that as many children are born in the Republic of Serbia as possible, because Serbia is known not only to age but to die. If we know that in the last 10 years between 300,000 and 350,000 citizens have disappeared in Serbia, these amendments and amendments to the law are kind of accelerated and protected by women who want to become mothers, to give birth to children, etc. Because the economy is in the situation in which it is, we are not at this moment able to reward more women who want to give birth to more children and to get the right to more years of recognised internship than is foreseen by this law, but I hope that by improving the economic situation in the state of Serbia and improving, the financial and economic situation in the country will create conditions that in some new changes to the laws of all women, mothers who have more children, they will get greater rights to recognise the right to an increased pension base, that is, as in some other countries, an example of Slovenia and Slovakia and so on. All these other provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, I am sure the JS Parliament Club is going after this, to enable Serbia to create the best possible conditions, that young educated people who at this time do not have the opportunity to hire and hire, especially those employers who need these profiles of interest these young people have, and also by increasing, or by limiting work at a certain time of two years, create a more favourable climate, that these workers, at the end of a certain time than two years, create a working relationship for an indefinite amount of time, and also create conditions and that in a easier and simpler way, they can cross from one employer to another, where there is greater opportunities and opportunities for better earnings. When it comes to the Law on PIO, I or I didn't hear it, or Mr. Minister, you didn't explain it, I guess you thought we'd read enough of the reasons from the proposed amendments and the addition of the law, so we got the PIO bill right. What is most important in this law is that, among other things, they increase the age for retirement to 67 years until after certain years, as of 1 January 2015, equalising the right and obligation to retire, women with men, although the issue is always a little questionable. Given certain comments that have been heard in both the professional and the other public, given the tendency of certain members of the weaker sex, so to speak, to be equal in many rights with members of the stronger or the male sex, unfortunately, I say so in my personal opinion, it is mainly sought by those women who do not work in heavy or relatively difficult jobs, but by others, whose engagement physically, is not so large, not so much sought out and not spent so much physical and mental power in the workplace, as others spend. But well, if the intensity of European legislation is, and it is, to equalise the conditions for retirement, both men and women, the JS parliamentary group will also support this law in the day of voting. What is most important to us is that after the adoption of these laws, the real state of Serbia is starting to create a business environment, where there will be more employment, where there will be faster and more regular budgeting and where pensions will be more regular and higher and that they can live normally. From the above, I conclude that in the day of the vote, the JS Parliament Club will vote for these two proposed legislative projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4021	The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4022	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to begin my presentation with the conclusion that the proposed amendments to the Labour Act are not as drastic as it has been speculated in public over the past few weeks, and it is obvious that this proposal has been balanced because, as we see neither employers nor trade unions, workers are fully satisfied with it, which you will agree, it was neither possible. What is significant to us is that this proposal is not contrary to the interests of the employees. These amendments and additions to the Labour Act most of these amendments specify certain provisions of the current current current Labour Act, which have been interpreted and applied mainly by employers over the past few years, since its application. It is clear that the improvement of the legislative framework that it should be in addition to other measures of the government, however, is the law we expect, they should contribute to increasing domestic foreign investment in the economy, increasing employment, reducing the grey economy, or working on black, as well as economic growth. We at the Democratic Club of the Dukes' Union of Hungarians hope that these changes and additions will be sufficient. One thing is certain, the goal is to ensure the creation of a favourable economic climate and the ability to create new jobs. I would just like to mention a few concrete examples of the amendment and addition of the Labour Act. With this new bill, as we heard from the presentation of the Honorable Mr. Minister, the employer commits himself, this did not exist in the past that the contract on work or his copy held right where the employee works. This is very important with two aspects. One aspect is from the point of view of the employee, precisely to avoid what we are aware of is happening in the future, specifically when a labour inspection came to the attention of the labor contract, then employers used the excuse that this labor contract and its copy were not found here at the place of work, and they received a certain time limit to give this employment contract and its copy to the labour inspector. Then it was not rare for them to retroactively conclude with an earlier date that labor contract, so they let him or his copy into the loop. On the other hand, these changes are also significant from the point of view of the state, as in this way they will make it easier for the abovementioned labour inspectors to determine whether the persons found with the employer really have the proper documentation. In practice, the powers and capabilities of the labour inspector are very important, and we hope that this will also be brought to life on the ground in the exercise of inspection supervision. Among other things, their opportunities and powers are insight into general individual acts, records and other documentation, identifying the identity of the person and taking statements, both from employers, responsible persons, and employees and other persons found at the employer's place of work and what is extremely important is to control whether the application to compulsory social security has been made, and all to reduce the grey economy, i.e. preventing black labour. One of the, on the one hand, criticised newspapers and the most frequently mentioned newspapers is the extension of the deadline for establishing a working relationship to a certain time from up to now 12 months to 24 months, which is, on the other hand, positive and positive from the corner of employees, because they will in this way have longer certainty of their status, a longer period of time. Unfortunately, the fact that, in practice, these contracts have been concluded for a certain period of time for a maximum year is widely known. After a year, breaks were made, work relations were interrupted, and other types of contracts were concluded. We all know that, unfortunately, it happened. According to this proposal, a fixed-term employment contract can be concluded for more than 24 months, as we have heard, it can be for the longest 36 months, if it is a newly established employer, a company that is younger, or more than a year, or if it is an unemployed person who, by the time the conditions for retirement are met, remains for a maximum of five years, the longest for this period of five years, we believe that this is good, first because of the relief of employment, the so-called more difficult category of persons, believe in older than 55 years, but it is good that new start-ups get the possibility that until they are able to conclude a contract indefinitely, means three years, they conclude contracts at a certain time. Working part-time is also a good thing, first of all because of the flexible form of work and what suits those who, for example, are unable to work full-time because of family obligations. We, in the Union of Duke Hungarians, think that we should create favourable conditions for people who have more children, for those who have small children. Work at a distance or work at home is also one of the flexible forms of work and you will agree that the development of information technologies makes this type of work in the future actually inevitable. Slid working hours are also good and favourable from the point of view of the parents with children. Working from home or from a distance is good both because of cost cuts, productivity increases, and also because of a more comfortable, more comfortable working-time organisation. There has been little talk in the public that this proposal to conclude work contracts for the performance of domestic, auxiliary staff is abolished between spouses, or blood relatives and Tasby relatives until a certain degree of relation. It's clear to us that this had to come to an end, precisely, unfortunately, because of the abuse and act of law. It happened in practice, not rarely, that certain individuals had concluded actually fictitious agreements with their wives with huge unreal salaries, so then the state was obliged to just a few months before going on maternity leave to pay unreally high maternity leave fees to those wives. What I would also like to mention, and to commend, is that an employee who is not in general or partly used his right to vacation in the calendar year because of his absence from work for the use of maternity leave, leave from work for the care of a child or special care child, has the right to take this vacation next year until 30 June. Now that I've touched the issues of pregnant women and maternity, I'd like to point out that on this issue, the following provisions are of paramount importance. As we have heard, pregnant women, or maternity mothers, now and mothers who nurse their children, do not have to perform tasks that are estimated to be harmful to both mothers and children, or if there is an estimate that there is a real risk to the health of the mother or child. According to this proposal, it is proposed to extend that health care to those employed and breast-feeding their child. It is interesting that this proposal by a member, in the event that the employer cannot provide, is not able to provide prescribed health and safety protection at work, it is required to ensure that this dowry is provided for by other relevant tasks, and, if it does not have such jobs, it should be referred to a paid leave. What is mentioned and what is also good, it is for the first time introduced, that the person employed during pregnancy has the right to leave paid while going to a doctor's appointment in connection with pregnancy and this change is fully in line with the Convention of International Labour on the Protection of Motherhood. I would remind all of us and the changes to this law that we passed last year, regarding this subject. Therefore, the failure of the labor contract is nothing, it is now specified if, on the day of the adoption of the job contract, the employer was aware of the circumstances of pregnancy, maternity leave, child care work and special care of the child, or if employees have been informed within 30 days of the termination of the employer's employment relationship of these same reasons and, as well as the change we have made, the rights of breast-feeding one or more days, i.e. to reduce working time for the possibility of breastfeeding their child. We believe that the protection of the motherhood of women employed is one of the basic issues, which concerns society as a whole, and for them it is significant that after maternity leave they can return to the same workplace, if not the same then to an appropriate, adequate job with the same salary. For the rest of the time, I have to look back at the second bill of law - a bill of amendments and additions to the Pension and Invalidity Act. For SVM, of course, providing an absolute standard of living and maintaining a relative standard of life for pensioners is of paramount importance. I must also say that the controversial and controversy surrounding the pension system is just about the state pension system, which differs from country to country. So it's not the same for everyone. The biggest differences concern precisely these elements of the pension system, such as the way of funding, the types of pensions and management. In Serbia, as is known, the current funding of pensions or in English -- pay as you go, which would mean that the current generations of employees from their contributions are financed by pensions of current pensioners and thus the current employees gain the right to have their pensions financed from the contributions of some future generations. Of course, this system was good while it was relatively busy and relatively few pension users, but over the past few years, slow economic growth has occurred and an increase in unemployment. Thus, the demographic structure of the population has changed. The population is getting older. Unfortunately, there are fewer and fewer employees and there has been a crisis in this system, so neither the state nor employers have been able to comply with their obligations. The basic issue for the survival of the pension system, for the further normal functioning, are those parts that are involved in these changes and additions, which are the conditions for obtaining pension-inhabitation rights, the introduction of early retirement pension rights and the demand for the introduction of pension cuts if someone wants to retire early, an insurance internship that counts with an increased duration and an extremely significant status for us of farmers' insurance. As we know, the government has begun reforming the pension system. So, some of the last governments started it back in the early 2000s. Then there was a one-time increase in age by three years, so it was 63 years for men and 58 years for women. In 2003, a more restrictive definition of disability was defined. In 2005, there was a change in the phasing out of conditions for obtaining the right to an age and family pension for two years, since 2008 to 2011. The age limit has already risen for men for 65 years and for women to 60. The 2011 Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Pension-Employment System was laid down, among other things, to gradually raise the conditions for obtaining the right to an age and family pension again for three years, and then the insurance internship for women was raised to 38 years, which we are now not touching, starting from 2011 to 2022. The definition of farmers' insurance is then changed, under which all farmers who have more than half a hectares of land who are not pensioners or at school are required. I must stress that these reforms have somewhat improved the situation, provided certain results, but we will agree that financial indicators would have been much better if it had been more effective to control and collect these contributions for pension and disability insurance. In any case, it is now clear that these reforms were not enough and that it is necessary to get new ones. That is why these amendments and additions to pension-invalid insurance laws are on the agenda. They include raising conditions for obtaining age pension rights for women, succesively from 60 to 63 years old, and then from 63 to 65 years old. As of January 1st, this law will be applied next year. So, from 2015 to 2020, this condition will increase by half a year, six months a year, so that in 2020 it will be 63, and from 2021 to 2032 it will increase annually by two months and will be 65 years. The conditions for going to retirement between men and women are actually equalized in 18 years, in 2032. The introduction of early retirement rights and the establishment of a permanent reduction in the amount of early retirement pension for each month prior to retirement. The next change is also a significant one, excluding the benefits of an employee working in administrative and technical jobs, or jobs, which is actually the essence of the benefits of the internship, because their health is in no way compromised. For SVM, one of the most important is to specify the definition for certain categories of insurance, in particular for farmers' insurance. Introducing early retirement institutes, i.e. by introducing so-called Penalta, gradually tightening the conditions for early retirement, is expected to reduce the number of people who are early retirement. As I mentioned, they exclude themselves from the benefits of the staff who are objectively free from the real danger of their lives or health, that is indeed the purpose of this benefits. That's where the tightenings are still being introduced. So people who work at jobs where insurance counts with increased duration have to work in these jobs to spend a minimum of two-thirds of their working life. As I mentioned, it is one of the most important newspapers for us to return the definition of farmers' insurance companies from 2003, because this year from 2011 is said that all members of the agricultural household are to pay a contribution. You will agree that it is impossible for all members of the agricultural household to pay contributions to pension-inhabited insurance. Therefore, these changes and additions make it easier to carry out the obligation to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance to members of agricultural households. That's what my colleague Arpad Fremond will talk about a little bit later. We welcome that the amendments and additions of one member of this law solve half the problems of farmers currently facing in the field. So now only one person is obliged to pay contributions. As for the second part of their problem, regarding contributions to mandatory social security, we believe that this is a key aspect of proportionality, but, as I mentioned, my colleague will talk about it later. We expect a working group that could address this issue to be formed in the future. What we also support is that in the future, a child-born employee will be added half a year of insurance training or a two-year-old. So far, there has been an opportunity in this law for an employee who has three children to be two years old. The only problem is this is going to apply in 18 years. The Union of Duchy Hungarians considers that the proposed amendments and additions to the Labour Act are not so drastic, they are not contrary to the interests of the employees. We hope that it will really lead to investment incentives, economic growth and an increase in employment. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on the pension-inhabitation system, we hope that in the future it will succeed in providing a financial sustainable system and therefore we will support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4023	The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4024	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law that lies before us, as far as I understand the government's intention, should contribute to reducing the budget deficit through increased employment and attracting investment. This is, above all, significant at the moment, as the economy of the Republic of Serbia is in freefall and 300km per hour. However, although this law should be systematic, for various reasons, which I will talk about a little later, it is not, because it does not establish a fundamentally new working-law status of the employer and the employee. That's not even possible. It is not possible for the simple reason that at the moment we do not have a divergence in the very basis of this country and we do not have new relations primarily in the economic system, which should be based on private property, on a clear definition of private capital, or its origin, on full protection of private property and a strong social protection system. These four conditions are not met. We still have a series of relics, a series of backlogs from the times that are behind us. We have backlogs from a time of self-government socialism, a system that was what it was, but it was a system. The parts of that system are alive today and the day exists today, and the whole new system is gone. So it comes to the paradoxical situation that it's trying to extract something that we've given up, and it's new to make it look like it doesn't have the strength. I'll give you a few explanations about all this. We have 1.7 million pensioners in the Republic of Serbia right now. There are 900,000 employees in the private sector, and in the state sector about 780,000. So in the country's state sector, 780,000 people have been employed who are administering a state of about eight million inhabitants. I'll remind you that in ancient Rome, the population of 60 million was 10,000 employees. All in all, 780,000 in the state sector, which, with these 1.7 million pensioners, accounts for about 2.5 million, more or less, supported, to be supported by 900,000 employees. It just can't. If we were to achieve full employment in this country, it would still mean, because right now, if the data doesn't cheat on me, we have something about 790,000 unemployed, it would be 1.5 million people who would work and should support 2.5 million. That's not possible. What's the problem? The problem is that pensions are being paid out of the budget at the moment, and that happened in 1988, when the "Jogurt Revolution" in Vojvodina was integrated, it was one of the reasons why it was all done, the Duchy and Disabilities Insurance Fund for the Fund of the same purpose and the purposes of the Republic of Serbia. This pooling has concentrated funds in one place, so that in 1998 and 1999 both the State and the Fund of Independent Activities and the Military Pension-Invalid Fund were robbed, the full money withdrawn from them, disappeared, and that they could perform their function, i.e. In order to be able to pay out pensions, this became a budget item and this is a public income, i.e. a budget category of the Public Revenue Act of the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia No. 22 of 2001. Article 7 makes it clear – public revenues within the meaning of this law are considered revenue financed by the rights and duties of the Republic, the jobs and tasks of the City of Belgrade and the municipality, as established by the Constitution and the law, as I underline, contributions to compulsory social security. In this way we have come into a position that already in 2002 in the Official Messenger, according to the Law on the Budgetary System, it is prescribed that the receipts consist of current incomes and taxes, I am talking about the budget, two, contributions to compulsory social security, donations and transfers, other revenues, taxis and benefits for the use of goods etc. In no EU country, contributions are not a category of public revenue, i.e. a budget item. If they remain a budget item, if there is no special fund for pension and disability insurance, the budget will never come to the green branch and nothing will ever be done. This law will help make Serbia fall 280km free of charge instead of those 300km an hour, but it will continue to fall. Because of all this, in order for anything systemically to be done in this country, it must be revealed how in 1998 and 1999 the money disappeared from the Pension and Disabilities Fund, it must be found out where that money went, what happened to it, because that money was the money of the people who invested and invested in it while they were employed. Now to cut people's pensions on the basis of someone stealing their money, so now there's no one left to pay off their pensions is injustice, but not only injustice, but consenting to cover it up is the cover-up of a crime and complicity in stealing and looting which we were some of us and witnesses. I ask a clear question – how is it thought to do something if, here it says here, in 2009, the Budgetary System Act says that public revenues continue to contribute to compulsory social education, namely pension and disability insurance, health insurance and unemployment insurance. That hasn't changed. Until that changes, the complete Labour Act, all of which we need to discuss today, will be only more or less cosmetic changes, which will lead to the rise of social tensions, which are already high, to endanger pensioners' rights, which are threatened anyway, to endanger the rights of socially endangered populations and to reduce social protection, which is in bad shape anyway. To prevent all of this, LSV will try to help amendments to make this law a very limited range, I repeat, of very limited range and no systematic, as it tries to present itself, better. The fate of our amendments will depend on how we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4025	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4026	Dear MPs, respected members of the government, respected citizens of Serbia who are watching the work of this parliament, the legislator expects this law to encourage domestic and foreign investment, overcome the economic crisis, reduce work on black, economic growth, create new jobs. However, when the reasoning of the law is compared with the very text of the law, it cannot be assumed, nor can it be seen that this law offers and provides the objectives that the proposer has declared in the light of the law. Namely, this law is just giving a legal framework, I stress – legal framework, for the release of persons with disabilities, pregnant women, maternity services, etc., which has not been a practice in any law so far. The bill promoter did not have the strength or will to face one fact that various government-controlled inspection services are being used as a means and mechanism of pressure on businessmen, with a particularly expressed political connotation, which is highly expressed in Novi Pazar, Tutin, Prijepolje and other Sandzak cities. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says political parties cannot submit power to themselves. However, the way many inspection services or personal inspectors work are a classic example of government abuse for political purposes. Since this bill does not deal with this problem at all, we have proposed amendments that we ask for to be opened through this law and this issue to be resolved permanently. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 36 guarantees equal protection of law against courts, and the proposer of this law leaves the possibility that employees should not return to work even if the court finds that they have illegally ceased their employment. The legislator thus derivates the court and court decisions and encourages employers to break up work relations with employees without legal basis. Article 60. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, guarantees the right of employees to legal protection in case of termination of employment. The same member of the Constitution of women, young people, disabled persons, guaranteed special protection at work and special working conditions, and this bill provides a legal framework that even pregnant women and maternity women, as well as young people and people with disabilities, can lose their jobs. When we complete the old, basic text of the law, with these amendments and additions to the law, we see that there are countless legal gaps that allow employers to simply trample employees. Therefore, the measures of this law must comply with the Constitution and other laws governing this matter. Otherwise, we will have cases of citizens or damaged persons seeking protection with the European Court of Justice and the state of Serbia losing due to the non-compliance of this law with other laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I urge the Government to take another look at the potential negative consequences that would result from the application of this law, to look at its shortcomings, to respect constructive proposals for its improvement, or to withdraw it from the assembly procedure. On this occasion, I call once again on the government of the Republic of Serbia to pay due attention to underdeveloped areas, especially the Sandzak region, and to show interest in the country's most vulnerable parts by means of a concrete programme and measures for economic recovery and development. In the end, I will take the opportunity to ask the chairman to send proposals to the law that we are talking about a few days earlier in the future. Serbia's assembly consists of seven electoral lists, meaning seven different views on life and on this law. It gives extraordinary opportunities to remove any deficiency, any member and the law in general. So we have a high-quality assembly, but I pray that we are given the opportunity to get the bill's proposals a little early, to better prepare for their adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4027	I thank Mr. Ugljanin. Minister of Government, Mr. Alexander Vulin, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4028	Thank you. Just a few misunderstandings to resolve. When it comes to the protection of pregnant women, people with disabilities, every protection and their rights are strengthened by this bill. Not only can pregnant women and maternity women not lose their jobs so far, there is one way, don't let it confuse you – to break the law, but that's something, sorry, that can't be a matter of your health or your other condition, but it's a violation of the law. The very fact of pregnancy absolutely excludes any possibility of being fired, or of disrupting her work-legal status. This law not only guarantees it, but extends a certain Corps of Rights to breastfeeding. So while a woman is breast-feeding, she is subject to special rights – that she cannot work in a place that can in a health sense affect her or a child, can not work overtime, can not work at night, if in any way it affects her or the child's health. Also, another norm is added – that maternity, pregnant, breast-feeding, can carry out appropriate medical examinations with the selected doctor, which is a complete newspaper, during working hours. So far, it wasn't a practice. So she's just obliged to notify the employer about it, and that's all. She was paid to see a proper doctor. As for persons with disabilities, it has been a practice so far that if the need for a job carried out by a disabled person ceases, you should now find him another job. The employer, if he couldn't do it, he simply declared him a technological surplus and fired him. Now he can't do it anymore. Now the employer is obliged to find another job, and if he can't, he's obliged to pay the right severance payment. It wasn't a practice until now. And another little thing about PIA. Of course, amending and supplementing the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act can't solve this problem that we've been talking about. Clearly, by economic criteria, you have a million and 700 thousand pensioners, and by economic criteria, three should be employed by one pensioner. These are European criteria. That's five million and 100,000 employees in a country where you have seven million residents. You'll admit, it's just not possible. That's why the state is reaching for a slowdown in retirement, and certainly not pension cuts, not the end of the fund. But for slowing down, of course. As you can see, the slowdown is done very moderately, very cautiously. It's only in 2032 that we're equating women and men to 65 years of age. But what is also important in this law is that we make significant savings not only through stopping or slowing down particularly early retirement. Last year 53% of the men went into early retirement. It's not something we can really look forward to when it comes to our budget. It's not just an idea. The idea is to make it more meaningful through the restriction of the Beneficent Job Stave Institute. A benefactored internship serves as one who performs certain tasks that are dangerous for him, for his health, which prevents him from waiting for a time when someone else would retire, to leave early. The Society thus thanks him for his responsible and safe work that is difficult, which has its consequences for him and his health, but we must not extend it to those who are only in the same service. Through the savings I'm talking about, we're counting that in 10 years, 5.35% of the gross social product will be saved through this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4029	I thank Minister Voulina. The word is by MP Dubravka Filipovski, the authorised representative of New Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4030	Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I think Serbia has long waited for amendments and additions to the labour law. It is doubtless that this law was needed by Serbia, especially at the moment. Why at this point? Because the economic situation is very difficult and this law is the result of a compromise and, in my opinion, of my colleagues from the New Serbia parliamentary group, it is a significant step in creating a regulatory framework in the field of labour relations adapted to the conditions of the market and, therefore, the New Serbia parliamentary group will support both of these laws in the voting day. The proposed law together with the rest of the comprehensive reform package will lead to greater legal certainty, clear rules, more order, lower costs and administration, greater opportunities in terms of facilitating employment without fear of possible manipulation. I see this law as an opportunity to preserve the existence of our families because it also enables young people to get a job but also for those who are retired to enable and create a new working relationship. I expect that in its application there will be a reduction in work on black and that it will primarily allow for improvement of business conditions. I am against the politicisation of this law and will therefore, in the follow-up of my presentation, be very taxing on members on behalf of my parliamentary group, list the positive effects that I expect he will have in his application after the vote. Article 3 provides that the employer is obliged to deliver to the representative trade union a labour rule within seven days of the date of entry into force and that the employer who does not accept the initiative of the representative union for accession to the negotiations for the conclusion of the collective agreement cannot, by way of a labour rule, regulate the rights and obligations of the labour relationship. It is very important that this law also complements Article 23 of the provision that during the course of the court proceedings, the burden of proof on the employer is subject to discrimination, which, in accordance with European rules, protects this provision of the law already in the case of a court procedure of the rights of workers. The new provision of Article 24 repeals the obligation to adopt rules on the organisation and systematization of jobs for those employers who employ less than 10 workers which significantly facilitates their position in relation to the existing solution so far. Where the question of the provisions of the law relating to probationary work is raised, Article 36 provides that before the time for which the trial work has been contracted, whether the employer, whether employed, may cancel the contract of work with a cancelled period which cannot be shorter than five working days but that the employer also has an obligation to justify the termination of the contract of employment. When it comes to working for a certain time, it is important that the amendment of Article 36 increases to a certain time from one to three years. Article 40 provides for the obligation of the employer to notify the employees of the availability of full-time and part-time jobs in good time. Also, the employer is obliged to consider an employee's request to move from under full-time to full-time as well as vice versa, and the collective contract regulates the co-operation and information of the trade union on part-time transactions. Member of the 42nd review according to modern times and the development of information technologies and work from home, which I think is very important. The provision of Article 68 shall make an important change for the benefit of employees when the matter is a vacation. Unlike the existing solution in the future, the newly employed will gain the right to use the annual vacation in the calendar year after a month of continuous work, from the day of establishment of the employer's employment relationship. I think there are two other very important and important newspapers here. It is incomparable that a more practical and flexible new solution is that if an employee uses an annual vacation in parts, the first part uses at least two weeks, not three working weeks, and the rest by 30 June of the following calendar year. The provision in Article 75 facilitates the position of employers who employ a large number of people, gives them the possibility that, in the case of the use of collective annual leave, they should bring one aggregated solution instead of individual solutions and such a summary solution is pointed out on the advertising board, which is considered to have been served to employees. In addition to pregnant women, article 89 also recognizes women who breast-feed a child as a category requiring additional protection at work. Under the new law, the employer is obliged to provide them with appropriate jobs, as well as to direct them to a paid leave which is in spirit with a policy of protection of motherhood. Article 101 and 102 further specify the protection of persons with disabilities as special categories of employees. Namely, such an employee is obliged to ensure that work is carried out according to the law, if for objective reasons he is not able to do so, he is obliged to pay him compensation as a technological surplus, which is certainly a better solution than the existing undefined status as it has been so far. Article 111, which normally regulates and the minimum profit institute, has also been amended, prescribes an additional obligation for the employer to notify the representative union of the reasons for the continuation of the minimum wage payment at the end of the six-month period. The new Article 112 states that when establishing the minimum labour price to be adopted by the Social Economic Council, it comes from several very important conditions, notably the existence and social needs of the employee and his family, then through minimum consumer baskets, the movement of the employment rate on the labour market, the growth rate of GDP, the trend of consumer prices, etc. What is important is to note that if any of the above elements change significantly, the Council is obliged to consider the reasoned initiative of one of its members to start negotiations to establish a new minimum labour price. The amendment of Article 121 further provides for the calculation of earnings and earnings that the employer is obliged to pay. This represents an extenuating circumstance for the position of the employee. The staff member shall also retain the right to challenge the legality of the action in question before the competent court. A fully amended article 179 taxed on a variety of situations in practice which may constitute a reason for the cancellation of the labour contract in accordance with the provisions of this law. This has not been the case so far, which in practice was a problem for both employees and employers, and this member continues to recognise the category of technological surpluses in point 5. A new member of 179a allows the employer, in certain situations, to impose some of the disciplinary measures on the employee instead of firing, as a form of prior warning. In particular, the notice with the notice of termination is set out that the employer will cancel the work contract without any re-warning if he commits the same work obligation or disrespect for work discipline within the next six months. It is certainly better for the employee to be obliged by the employer to give notice to the employee on a written basis that there are reasons for firing, and to leave him with a period of at least eight days to declare it. In the warning, the employer is obliged to specify the basis for firing, facts and evidence indicating that the conditions for firing and the time limit for giving an answer to the warning have been met. In the same sense as the provision of a new member of 180a, which says that the employer can fire the employee only if he has previously given him written notice concerning shortcomings in his work, instructions and an appropriate deadline for improving his work, and the employee has disobeyed this warning and continued to work in an unsatisfactory manner. According to good international practice is also a solution in Article 189a, which prescribes that employees whose employment relationship is stopped have the right to request from the employer a certificate containing the date of establishment and termination of the employment relationship and type, i.e. a description of the jobs on which he worked. Also, at the request of an employee, the employer may also give an assessment of his behaviour and his work results. Article 268a and 268b further and very fundamentally specify the powers of the labour inspector. For example, the inspector controls whether the application for compulsory social security has been made, checks on business premises, facilities, installations, devices, etc., requires the taking of preventive and other measures to prevent law violations, and the employer, the responsible person and the employees are obliged to enable him to carry out surveillance, insight into documentation and smooth work and to provide all the information necessary to carry out inspection. Because of everything I've said, the NS parliamentary group will support amendments and additions to this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4031	Thank you. The People's MP, Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4032	I thank the chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, the honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, speak about the Labour Act, not talk about the overall context in which our economy is located is simply and impossible. I will provide only one piece of information that, when it comes to labour law and labour law, we are on the latest World Bank report in 93 places, according to what the World Bank assesses as the relevant institution, which is the flexibility of the labour market. What serious foreign investors are always most interested in, of course, is also needed in this domain, and I believe that the amendments to the Labour Act were both necessary and inevitable for domestic investors and domestic businessmen, but also for those who plan to start their business, and that is very important for us in the process of developing entrepreneurship in our country and moving and transferring our country from our official society, which today exists in what is called an entrepreneurial society. It is therefore very important that we talk today and discuss it. In addition to these amendments and additions to the Labour Act, we cannot not mention it and we cannot view it as an individual law, but what we have adopted and adopted in our Assembly, which are certain tax reliefs and a set of tax laws that are necessary for our economy to have and to experience economic growth over the next few years and to solve that key, burning problem of our country, which is the problem of unemployment. This is just one set of these laws, we are expected to have a discussion about the Law on privatisation and bankruptcy, the Law on Investments, the Law on Quick Answers, and all this should result in what is best and what is most important, and that is to create a favourable climate for investment and to create a favourable climate for new employment, for which SDP is naturally the strongest in its functioning. I'm saying that as a social-democracy, there is no third time, there is no social market economy, there is no redistribution, there is no quality social policy, there is no social justice if there is not enough big enough cake, if our economy doesn't make enough GDP, if our businesses don't export enough goods and services to make that cake bigger and so that redistribution and redistribution can be done in the best and most responsible way. This law definitely, and that is very important to us, is in line with the Conventions of the International Labour Organisation. In particular, these are the most important conventions for us, Convention 87, Convention 98, on the right to free organisation and the right to collective bargaining. I think that the role of the state and this law is that, in fact, through this law, it encourages collective bargaining and there is a state, and the government has come out to meet employees who have not completely abolished this law solution – an extended fact of collective agreement, but it is defined as being able to apply in those branches, which is very important to encourage border dialogue, sector dialogue, where more than 50% of workers are organised and where they negotiate. The solution by which the fact of the collective contract was expanded in full capacity works, in our opinion, was extorted and this is already one of the octrossed acts. The very fact, the collective bargaining institute itself involves negotiating, involves those institutions where collective bargaining and based is also a good faith institute, it is an institute of goodwill and it is an institute of good co-operation between social partners. It is good what the minister advocated, which is that at some point, we hope that the time will come, social dialogue, social pact will leave to social partners, employers' representatives, labour union representatives, with respect for all the conventions of the International Labour Organisation and, of course, what is very important with us, the ratified European Social Charter, which has been ratified in 2009, and which means a whole set of labour rights that my colleagues have previously spoken of. What is a fact, and I, as an economist, want to speak according to facts and numbers, is that analyses have shown that 45% of the demands of employers' organisations, among other things the Union of employers as representative, have stated that American chambers, representatives of the German delegation's economy, have been adopted about 45% of the requirements in Serbia, and in line with trade unions, 73% of the members of the law. For us as Social Democrats and remains the bitter taste which did not come to a final agreement on the Social-Economic Council, which did not come to the full capacity of social dialogue and agreements between the social partners, but I will quote the minister himself who said: "and the sea and the need of our state, parliament and government, to make a new labour law that will, of course, not fully fit, but which will represent a minimum consensus between the employers' representatives and representatives of the unions in our country." In that sense, the proposal is what the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will stand for, is the adoption of not only this new Labour Act, because we are talking about minimal changes here. I won't mention them in detail, they've said enough about it by my colleagues, but don't forget that in this code of work, or "laybar" code we should also put the Labour Act, and the Strike Act, and all those laws and regulations that involve issues and social economic areas. I will only remind you that it is very important to encourage not only collective bargaining but also the creation of a Council of Company Employees. This is one serious European flow, the fluids of countries that involve and operate on social market economy postulates and that encourages this dialogue between employees and employers, because the Councils of Employees are advisory bodies and they actually serve to motivate employees to do their utmost, to make employees more productive, to be more efficient, to be more efficient, to be more effective, which is very important through participation in the decision-making process. This is what a participatory model of management is meant in countries that represent us in this domain of the countries of the social market economy, which is, for example, the Federal Republic of Germany, that is the obligation of management and the right of employees to co-determination, to consult. What this law defines and what is very important is the right to inform. It's the only way that if employees get involved in the decision-making process, we'll have the opportunity to motivate them. We will have the possibility that in the collective bargaining process, and I will remind them that this collective bargaining in the developed countries of Europe, where even the constitutional category is somewhere, is not only based on the minimum wage negotiations, of course, that minimum earnings must be improved, it must be increased, but still it is a matter of business activity, it is not just a question of negotiations on jubilee rewards and working conditions, but of these new issues. We live in the 21st century, these issues include talks and agreements between workers and employers on the Business Development Strategy, on technological development, on new markets. So, full engagement, therefore, by involving employees in the decision-making process, of course through the official authorities and institutions of the company itself, is most often, for example, in the Federal Republic of Germany, the participation of representatives of the Council of Employees or trade unions in various committees or as members of the Supervisory Board. It is very important to note, at the beginning I was talking about the flexibility of the labour market, but not about the flexibility of the labour market that Gay Standing is talking about and mentions a new class, which we all fear can be created and can become strong with us in the country, which is so-called. too much. Prekariat, a new class that is insecure, which has no secure employment, which cannot therefore be a member of a union, which does not have a certain future, at least as much. We mean a new model of flexibility of the labour market that will encourage our people to perfect themselves, to work, to be prepared for work, which is very important in this process, so that they have the opportunity to have the opportunity. What is very significant is that they make themselves able to get jobs on the market and become what is called a continuously employed economy. It is this flexibility of the labour market that we, as a social democratic party, promote and implement, but it also implies major investment in education. We're going to go too far if we still have 6.2% of highly educated people in our country, but if we invest in education, if we invest in science, then we're going to be able to attract highly sophisticated technologies, investments that have a spilling character. Of course, it will require a workforce that is highly qualified, highly trained and that is, most importantly, flexible in today's labour market. It's got a good percentage of skills. I will remind you in America that 88% of the competitiveness of the workforce is not from their formal education, but from the skills, abilities they possess and which can make additional value for the companies and organisations in which they work. I will also remind you that according to the latest survey done in 2013, in 2007, of the 10 most attractive professions in the United States in 2005, in 2006 there was no such thing. So technology develops, new jobs are created. What's our job is that all reform laws, all that is necessary, which is to the very state and the state itself doesn't take much to interfere with, do and invest in education, invest in science, encourage entrepreneurship, invest in infrastructure. That will be the way to our development. This will be the way to new employment, not as a law, not as legal frameworks, because the law does not employ anyone. I remind you that in the most developed countries the legal framework when it comes to work and work relations is not so important because relations between social partners are currently based on the autonomy of goodwill and on the autonomy of good faith. So that's the thing that means, and always employers and employees, in the vast majority of cases, find common interest. What's the common interest? It's company profitability, success and its result. That's what I'm talking about when it comes to the level. If our GDP is what it is, we can make a law that is, in the largest possible framework, closed, the interests of workers, modeled by the Mediterranean model, in Portugal, in Greece, where we have seen what happened and what negative effects in some domain can cause. So this is a very complex matter. I agree that the amendments are minimal and, of course, I support the view that we need a whole new law, with that observation that we also need a code of work that will include overall regulation in one place and that will regulate overall working and social relations. In the voting day, I believe there are no obstacles, there is no reason why MPs of the SDPS do not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4033	Thank you, Professor Marinkovic. The word has a folk MP Milan Krkobibić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4034	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ministers, the honourable Members of the People, the citizens of Serbia who are monitoring this transfer, are here today to amend and supplement very important laws. From previous discussions, it was mainly said that there were some additions and changes that were not so important. Let's just let it not matter, and if it doesn't matter, I expect that in the coming days, we've been waiting here for months for a new Labour Act and a new Law on PIO. Of course, when we do it and if we do it, it requires, I would say, a full consensus of all social partners. If these changes and additions have taken part, I have no reason to doubt. I've spoken to union representatives, I see that some of their objections have been accepted, some have not. Employers' remarks have been accepted, and some have not. I hear, interestingly, that some participants are external, so to speak, externally on our market also gave their opinion on the Labour Act. Okay, I'd like to make such important laws that concern such important areas a product of our consent, of our own domestic consent, to respect all the relevant suggestions of all the important factors that this concerns. Of course, the economy, I'm not gonna use any rougher terms, it's not on any take-off. The budget deficit is evident. We have fiscal consolidation ahead of us, but more important than that is the launch of economic activity. If we don't do important things that will lead to the launch of this business activity, this law and others will have no effect. Our laws were never a problem. We brought them, changed them, fixed them, challenged them. The problem always occurred when we were supposed to apply it. I don't know what these laws will be like. I would like to strengthen this discipline, that some of the provisions of the Labour Act that are calculated to trigger economic activity are strictly applicable in practice. It's the only way they can give a certain result. I've heard recently that surface control is one control, and you've heard, as much as last night on the Exit, of 108 controlled business entities even a third, to be rough in some gray zone, 18 is before closing. So, the gray economy is taking over, almost a third of our economy is in the gray zone, gentlemen. How is it to translate behind that magical curtain, to get it into regular flows, will these legal solutions go in favor? I want to believe he'll go. I want to believe that it will help hire new people, because only full-time employment, job creation, paying new taxes and contributions allows for budgeting, then indirect and pension funds. There are two reasons why the PUPS parliamentary group will support these changes and additions. One is, to say subjective, these changes and additions were done by respected Ministers, who were otherwise checked by workers for protection of workers' rights. I subjectively believe they stand firm on that barrier. I have no reason to doubt, because they must appear in some elections the next day, they must account for those who voted for them. Okay, that's my subjective feeling. There's something that's economically tangible, justifiable, and now they're looking at us mostly, in most cases, pensioners. This is important to them. Dear friends, alterations and additions to these laws, no part of them touches the fate of the current pensioners. They retired with years of internships, either men or women, and all they want is for their pension to be regular and to be safe. With the increase in the number of people employed, I repeat, the budget is being filled and the very guarantee of paying off these pensions is more than certain. It's this economic, key reason that the PUPS defines us not to go deeper into the controversy about these changes and additions. Of course, in the second part of his presentation, Mr. Minister touched this second law, in fact, amending and supplementing it, and that concept in several sentences he made is acceptable for the largest number of Serbian pensioners. Of course they want their pensions to be regular, safe and from the state guaranteed. Every other concept is unserious. It can be politically beneficial, it can be economically justified, but it can be existentially harmful. A million and 700,000 pensioners are waiting for those pensions, they're sitting there not thinking much about who spent the money and whether they didn't spend it. They know they worked, they paid and they know that the state of Serbia guarantees it. Some solutions concerning the fund's board of directors, where it comes down to seven members, where the state will have a dominant position, I see as a guarantee that the state of Serbia offers these people. Weak guarantees are these or those, political parties. We're witnessing that they're forming, disappearing, dividing, multiplying, and thus their guarantees. Who remembers any guarantees today? We heard everything in Serbia on both the left and the right, we heard those in the center. Today we don't know who's left and who's right, and who's in the center and that's a good, offensive tactics, we all play everything, but the state of Serbia is above all, and therefore, the pensioners of Serbia are extremely important that guarantee that these pensions will be very small and they will be safe. It's up to us to do everything, gentlemen colleagues, friends, not to be less, to initiate economic activity, to do everything where we work, so that we can move forward. I look forward to and encourages this applause, and I see it that way and where I work, I try to implement it in practice. We're not going to settle for the concept of well-paid accountants, who tell us skillfully, we're going to consolidate the budget, we're going to do a fiscal consolidation with this or that percentage. Here, I thank them tonight or today, thank you for that. We don't need their percentages, their obvious estimates, let's go, gentlemen, do everything, start business, get investors, start hiring people, get off the dead end. Here and only in this way can this budget be fuller, including pensioners and all those who are socially endangered, can have a better future. Whether investment is foreign, domestic, at this point is irrelevant. At this point, the most important thing is that Serbia is working and that is the first step. Those who do business know very well that it is not enough, it is necessary for Serbia to work, but it is also necessary for Serbia to earn money. Let's from this initial step that Serbia is working, to allow foreign investors to enter under very favourable circumstances, to gradually enter the stage when Serbia should and should earn, when profits will remain in this country and here to invest. My final consideration is in principle, what we could hear today, what we heard in the press, in some discussions, and we had conversations with the ministry people, they informed us, we have to be correct, we believe that these amendments and additions of both laws do not differ from the basic mission of the PUPS, and therefore the PUPS parliamentary group will vote in favour in the day of voting. Of course, we will accept and vote for every good and useful amendment that goes in favour of everyone, not a single parliamentary group. Let's rise up and do one smart amendment and say, "We're all behind it, it's useful, we'll accept it." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4035	I thank Mr. Krkobic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4036	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, first of all I have to express my dissatisfaction, because in the course of the Prime Minister's opening statement, we haven't heard a single word about the PIO bill. We've voted in a united debate over these two so-called so-called. The reform law, we listened to what the minister read with less or more success, we could understand what arguments the minister put forward here in front of the government, explaining the changes and additions, I repeat, not the new labour law, but amendments and additions to the Labour Act. From what we have been able to hear, the first and most important argument for which this law is passed is to increase foreign investment and create new jobs. I find this thesis very interesting in previous days, when this law was passed, and it was adopted by the government on Saturday (July 12th), and today it is July 15th, there is no public debate on this law before it came to the Assembly's agenda, no agreement has been reached on the socio-economic council, we have union protests, but also the dissatisfaction of employers with certain solutions. That argument about how this law is now going to increase the level of foreign investment seems completely inconclusive to me, and now I'm going to tell you why. This law, which is being amended today, was adopted in 2005. The level of foreign direct investment in Serbia in 2005 was one billion and 250m euros, in 2006, three billion 323m, 2007 billion 821m, 2008 billion 824m. This is data from the National Bank of Serbia website. In 2009, a billion and 373 million, in 2010, 860m euros, 2011 billion 827m euros, and then in 2012, 232m and 769m euros. The whole time this law was in force, we had foreign investments that were over a billion, a billion and a half each year in 2006 over three billion euros. Since this government came, the parties that make up the government today, in 2012 and 2013, foreign investment for two years has not been a single billion euros. This year's projection is one billion euros. So far, according to some data, it's only 200 million. I don't see how the Labour Act, which has been valid for nine years, has become an obstacle to foreign investment today. I think there's a problem on the other side. The problem is in the government that can't attract foreign investment, which hasn't done anything in the last two years to attract a foreign investor. All the factories that were opened, including the prime minister and ministers, in the last two years, are factories that were agreed before this government and the parties that are today came to power in Serbia. I heard somewhere, probably, talking about how Serbia will now be more competitive. I can only understand that the amendments to these laws will make it more competitive, because we will have the least profit in Europe. Today, only Romania is behind us and I guess someone thought that we would reach the level of foreign investment in Romania that is over five billion, six billion euros a year, by having the lowest wages in Europe. If that's the measure you want to raise Serbia's competitiveness towards foreign investment, then say so openly and say so, because this law reduces wages, among other things. So the citizens of Serbia shouldn't have any dilemma. Profits will only be reduced so much that they will no longer count past internships for all the years that the individual has been employed, but will only be counted on by the last employer. Each of us, depending on how many times we've changed our jobs in the course of our working days and how long we've been working with our last employer, the salary will be less by a few percent, two, three, five maybe percent. There are other things that will reduce profits, and I think we should talk about it openly today. I think one of the reasons why it didn't turn out to be an announced profit cut, as the prime minister promised in the exposé, and I remember as much as he promised to talk about it since October, is just to see the effects of applying this law, how much money will be reduced, and then to see how much money we're going to have to cut by the end of the year, not just profits, but profits and pensions. We've heard a lot here that this law will now better protect pregnant women, maternity or mothers on leave for child care. I don't understand how more protection is now if, in the previous, or current Labour Act, we had a member of 187 who speaks – during pregnancy, maternity leave, leave for child care and leave for child care, the employer can't cancel the employment contract. The extension shall now be added unless the conditions laid down in Article 179 have been met. So, eight, so now conditions are introduced to get someone fired, means that maternity and pregnant women get fired. So far, that's not possible, and I don't see what it's like to increase protection. It's very interesting to me, we've heard from the minister himself a few times, and there's now a possibility that women have the right to leave work to breastfeed a child. There's a health minister, he can probably correct me, but I have two little girls and they're breast-feeding done with about eight - nine months of life before their mother had to go back to work. The only introduction of this institute can be understood as an announcement of a reduction in the use of maternity leave, from 12 months to not knowing how much in these reforms we will reduce this disease, whether to nine, whether to six, whether to three months, and then the need for women who breast-feed children to be away from work like this with a 12-month leave of a year of maternity leave, I think a very small number of women who, with a year of age, are still breast-feeding that child. Also, we've given me 26 amendments to the draft amendments to the Labour Act. In this form proposed today, we will not support this law because we believe that this law does not defend work and does not defend the right to work and we ask that the Government seriously consider our amendments and that they are positively declared, because they are now allowing for greater protection of employees and greater rights. We want to believe that if, as my predecessor said, a new labour law, if we need a new labour law, then I don't know why we're bringing these amendments today, that the law will find solutions that will benefit employees in Serbia, that the finally agreedly ratified convention will have to be resolved in Serbia. Today over 50,000 people are working on so-called. ‘Lizing’. They have virtually no rights under this law, and they will have even less than all of us if this law is passed. We think that this was the government's real reform move, and we want to believe that the situation will not be repeated that the government commits itself to conducting negotiations between the social and economic dialogue participants, the social partners. We had a meeting in the government on February 3rd at the start of the election campaign to announce the formation of a working group that the dialogue would resolve all the matters of thinking that existed, which was a month and a half before the elections, then it was important to get the votes of the workers and to promise them that their rights would not be reduced, when the elections were over, the views of one part of the participants of the socio-economic dialogue were ignored, except what was agreed, and we were always in favour of that dialogue, and it was agreed that some work would be extended from year to two years, that the severances would now be counted only during the time spent with the employer. It is agreed on how minimum earnings will be accounted for, but it is not agreed on how profits will be changed and how collective bargaining will be conducted and how the extended fact of the collective agreement will be used that these things will no longer be repeated. I repeat, we are not in favour of these solutions that this law offers at the moment, we have given amendments and in relation to how the government will define itself according to our amendments, we will vote at the end of the debate for or against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4037	I thank Mark Djurisic, head of the NDS parliamentary group. Minister of Government, Mr. Alexander Vulin, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4038	Let me explain some things. So, as far as past work is concerned, past work is a reward for loyalty to the employer. He is the reward you spend with a certain employer, and he pays you that reward because you have certain skills, certain experiences that matter to him. What you've been doing somewhere else before and what you've been doing might be completely different, it just doesn't matter to him. We don't have a way, I mean we do, the state can do anything, but in economic terms, we don't have a way to make him reward you for something that doesn't matter to him in the process of production. It's just like that. On the other hand, past work, unfortunately or fortunately, for most of our employees will remain, because the vast majority of our employees work, especially those employed in the country, and with related businesses and where the founder of the Republic of Serbia is, remains the same. That may not be good, because, in world experience, the market should be much more flexible, that you change more businesses through life, but that's simply not the case. So for those who are employed in, as we say, the public sector, things aren't going to change. For the vast majority of things will not change a bit, and for those who are employed in the real or private sector for some wills, but for a good part of them. Now we're talking about experiences. You and I can put whatever we want in the law, but here's what we're talking about. Experience is next. It is an experience that you and your private employer have concluded a work contract and have determined how high your earnings are. The way he's been doing that, you're not gonna see it now. As a rule, you had a deal with the employer, you work for 50,000 dinars, and in those 50,000 dinars was your experience, your past work went in, and I don't expect it to change. I expect the situation will be similar. There's even a partial compensation for past work, and that's with a different severance to retire, even for a technological surplus. So far, the reckoning has been done by one quarter for the first ten years, and one third for all other internships. Now, there's a reckoning on one-third. So you have an increase and there's gonna be some little... I'm not saying that's enough, but there's going to be a small surplus and something will be done. So, on the matter of profit, nothing has changed, and that's something we've agreed with the unions and what we've stuck to. Not counting minimum earnings, way of calculating minimum earnings, annual holidays, bonuses, regression, warm meal, travel expenses, nothing has changed. It's exactly the same as it was done in the past law. So, even for Yota, nothing's changed. The only change is the change in past work, and now I'm telling you how we handled it and what it's going to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4039	I thank Minister Voulina. The leader of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Mr. Borislav Stefanovic, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4040	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Vulin, you say here, it's not true, everything else is the same as in the previous law, except for past work. I don't think we're interpreting the same text that's in front of us, but I'm not getting into it right now. In a bunch of failures, gaps and wrong moves that this government is making, today we have one of the most important system laws that, as well as many before, is adopted by an urgent procedure, without public debate and without necessary social compromise. Its application will lead to a reduction in profits and mass layoffs by citizens of Serbia, which will be hit by the young and those working in the private sector. It is true that the law passed by Djindjic's government was liberal, but it is forgotten that the law was passed after a long-standing public debate and agreement with the unions. Namely, out of 30 union demands, Djindjic met 29. You, as far as I understand it, have not met any of the crucial demands of the unions with which you have conducted negotiations and they have left or you have left, now no one knows who has left. As a result, we have an emergency law, which is passed entirely for vague reasons, which is passed in the middle of the summer, which is brought with unmistakable arguments, without agreement with the unions that we have not always had the same opinion with and with which we have not always been in the same front and about which we do not always have a good view of the past, which have largely helped your coming to power. This law largely affects those who, driven by false hope and empty promises from your party, supported your historic result, as you say, in the March month elections. These people will be most affected by these amendments to the law, and we will explain why. The Democratic Party in detail will explain everything through the large number of amendments that we have submitted, in hopes that we will try to change everything that we think is wrong in the next day, two, how much we have left without the illusion that you will reject it all, as you have done so far. What's more important than all that is that Djindjic's law is, I have to answer that because I see that the prime minister had some revelation about the DS leaving the way of Zoran Djindjic, probably offered his own experience and Vojislav Seselj, but we won't comment on it. The Djindjic law was passed, as colleagues said, in the conditions of high economic growth, which at that time stood at an average of 5.5% per year and therefore led to a decline in unemployment rate from 21% to 14%. We adopt this law under the conditions of a high unemployment recession in Serbia, when the state should protect every job rather than facilitate layoffs. You, among other things, and this law is exactly what you are doing, making it easier for the citizens of Serbia to be fired. Your message that this law will speed up employment sounds nice, but it must be followed by some concrete result. This is one of the main shortcomings not in the text itself but in your political decisions that you've been broadcasting these weeks, along with absolutely untasteful telegrams to support the implementation of miners on footings to Belgrade to support, as you say, reform law, with unprecedented barbaric fire through the regimeal media where you can't hear any more attitudes against this law. Whoever says he didn't notice it, he's got a problem with the truth and it's deep. I'm not just saying it as a member of the DS, I'm saying it as a citizen. Minister Vulin, please tell us here or, better yet, in writing, to refer to the Assembly and the media what concrete result in the new employment plan will bring these amendments to the law? How many employees will they be at the end of the year? How many young people are going to get a job? I think it's your turn to take responsibility and bring that information here, at least roughly, because as MPs, we want to have something you promised in this house, you as a representative of the government. That would be very good and useful, because not to play parole media spin, but very concrete tangible results. It would be fair and responsible for this government to at least assess how much this law will really lead to new employment. We keep trying, we pray for days, we appeal to the regime, give us an official or off-the-book or semi-official or shelled assessment of new employment analysis based on this law. None of you have an answer to that, except for the claim that this law will lead to new employment. I think it's comical. If that's what you're saying, support at least something. For two years, you have absolute power in Serbia. What is now the result of the new law? Less salaries and pensions in Serbia today than they were, there is twice as much hole in the budget as it was, 50,000 workers less working than before, 40% is more public debt, three times less investment, and for the first time we have more pensioners than workers, and plus all tax duties are increased. Unbelievable. You increased all the tax charges you could, including car insurance, and the hole grew bigger and bigger. Why? Because party soldiers must be hired, the state does not have to save, and Serbian citizens do. It's your philosophy. Since you have no idea how to start a Serbian economy and hire people, since you changed three economy ministers in two years, three finance ministers and three agriculture ministers, so three times three bad governments, three times three, three economy, three finance and agriculture ministers, you changed in two years. Unrecorded in modern Europe. What stability are you talking about, when you change the finance minister to cover up the fiasco, the debacle of your other historical reforms, and put the man as a special advisor to advise what? Mr. Wolf, cut your wages and pensions and fire 160,000 people. No, Lazo, it's not the time, so five, six times. Just to explain to the public what counseling looks like, because I don't see what he can advise. He's a man of principle, that's why he resigned. I think it is to a large extent a mockery for the citizens of Serbia. What, since you don't know, you're reducing the rights of workers and pensioners, tomorrow through bankruptcy and privatisation, as you know, you're preparing the same thing with direct contracts to sell out the most valuable resources in this country. It's not a reduction in wages and pensions, layoffs of workers and a sale of land, so I have to let you know. It's not a reform. Reform is when you systematically improve the lives of citizens, not when you make it worse. So don't call these laws reform, because they're not really. By abolishing past work, you will once reduce the salary for all employees in Serbia, whether they work in private or in the public sector, who have ever changed their employers. That's a fact, and you should admit it. You won't make life easier for young people by extending their lives to a certain time, because you'll only delay their permanent employment, and that's what everyone wants, and you know it. The possibility of getting credit – impossible, family life – impossible, the future, other than the future you believe in, is impossible. That is why I am telling you again that the problems you have brought Serbia to cannot be solved by changing several members of the law. You need to focus on the interests of citizens and start a business of activity, where the state must play a key role. That's the DS attitude. A lot of people don't like it, and liberals don't like it, but that's our attitude and we have a right to it. I think I should remind you that Mr. Vukic confirmed yesterday what DS is always saying and you're going to like this, which is that the number of public sector employees in the period from 2007 to 2012, has been reduced by 40,000, which means that DS has not employed party personnel in the extent of which you do, has already rationalized the state apparatus. You're laughing because you recognize each other. Otherwise, I know that Minister Vulin said recently, quote -- I'd rather write this law again than zero, referring to the Labour Act. I agree with you, it's just a question - why didn't you do it? What's with the mess and the race? June 6th or 26th, you made that statement. Then why didn't you sit down and write the law? I'm sure any new law would be better than these changes and there would be more time for dialogue with the unions. You've tried that for a while, and then you've raised your hands and you've lost both your nerves or your prime minister or someone, maybe even unions, and now we have a problem, where we have all the unions, except for those you paint for RTS, who send greetings, greetings and love to the prime minister on this side and the government on the other side, yes, which is a soft heart. Otherwise, whoever opposes them, you discredit them, you call them fake unions, false opposition, criminals, DS hysterical, DS thieves, and everything we're used to. On the basis of the following few things, employers will have the opportunity to pay workers a profit that will be up to 20% less than what they have earned, as well as profits less than minimum guaranteed. The past work, as you know, counts only on the current employer, that's what I explained. This applies to the severances, as well as the retirement severances. The shift work will not be particularly paid, which we think is a great injustice and we don't understand why it wasn't left behind. There is no obligation by the employer to record the presence at work and shift, so that workers will be damaged right in production. Easier firing of people without reason, abolishing the Labour Act, as well as reducing earnings 20% as a disciplinary measure, which the employer will use to pay less wages. You know very well that's possible. There is no mechanism to limit it. There is a possibility of firing pregnant women and maternity mothers, because they are not positively discriminated against in the text of the law, which will be spoken of much more in detail by my colleagues. I must tell you, it is clear that unfortunately Serbian citizens will continue to grow unemployment and it has already come to almost 29.30% in Serbia, to be precise 29.7 that is your official data. It is unfortunate that the government has no other way of attracting foreign investors and that it thinks it is possible to do so only through the dissuasion of workers. It's not helping the economy and it's not reforming. I don't agree with many of the colleagues who spoke here. If our only and strongest asset is a cheap workforce, otherwise it has done DS in the past, it has proved to be very bad, because there is no boss who is willing to pay so little workers, believe me, and there is no worker in fear of losing a job that will not agree to humiliating conditions, because the problem in Serbia is that our workers have acquired some rights for a long, decade-long struggle. You know that as a left-handed man. Now they're being cut off or disenfranchised and it's waving in the young, unemployed, who are supposed to be working with a private, and those who are protected by collective agreements, they think -- we've been great, we can take pictures on TV, support the prime minister, and they don't realize that when these contracts expire, they're going to ask you for the same bosses to apply the new law. Then they'll have to negotiate, be strong, protest and strike. So, you don't solve the problem for them, you just delay. We have submitted and we have our version of the draft labour law, which is very different, but it gives concrete proposals and concrete solutions, which we will do through the amendment process. I have to say, we have the PIO Act here, which I have to look back on and just get some data out. For women who have this law increased the retirement age by five years 2030 and some and years of training by two years, this means that the woman who retires in 2015 will have 11% less pensions than the woman who retires in 2014. That's exactly what we've calculated. This is Article 20, which deletes Article 69. We think the pension has been acquired right, not social aid. We must never forget that the parties that make up this current government of yours largely in the 1990s, perhaps not all, have robbed the pension fund and the old foreign currency savings of citizens, from which you shared apartments with your officials and the DS has paid back the entire debt to pensioners who in 2000 amounted to 750,000...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4041	Please, get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4042	This is the PIO Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4043	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4044	We have increased the average pension from then 35 euros to 200 euros, which remains insufficient and shamelessly small. I have to ask you a question – what will be the savings next year because of the increased age limit for women? That amount certainly isn't higher than the cost of the SNS campaign in the previous elections, so I think you might have been able to save on your promotion, not on the rights of workers and employees. Just give me the projection – what will be the savings due to the increase in the age limit for women, precisely, if possible? The key problem of the system is that only 45% of pensioners have full work experience, so the conditions for the benefited pensions need to be tightened and the early retirement pens introduced and the system reformed. That's where I agree. Also, we believe that pensions cannot be further reduced because they are already extremely low and huge numbers of Serbian citizens depend on and feed and live on these pensions. We have introduced the thirteenth pension for pensioners with the lowest incomes in Serbia that the government, your government, has abolished. Therefore, I must add, it is entirely incorrect for the prime minister's recent claim that the government led by the Democratic Party acted irresponsibly on pensions and salaries in the public sector, as the general known fact, which he also knows, that the government carried out the PIO reform in 2009, frozen nominal salaries and pensions, reduced the number of public sector employees, all with the support of the IMF. It's a notorious fact. In particular, it is an amazing statement that pensions increased by 70% between 2008 and 2011. How much? (Zoran Babic, from the place: seventy-two percent. ) Seventy-two percent have increased pensions in Serbia, says Mr. Vukic, from 2008 to 2012. Ask the pensioners, if you meet them at all, since you are in the cabinets and in your audience, whether their standard was twice as high in that period, if you do not want to read the official statistics that said that the average pension in 2008 was 216 euros and in 2012 – 209 euros; which is why we are not happy and why we paid the price in the elections. So if 72%, how much did you say, just explain to me that it's possible that 209 euros is 72% higher than 216 euros? So, all in all, the Democratic Party cannot support these amendments to the law, we believe that they have been brought completely out of the process, without public debate, without consensus with the unions, introducing some measures that are exclusively and absolutely in favour of employers, tycoon and people who employ over two or three thousand people, absolutely, in no way strengthen the rights of workers and employees. We believe, we have very detailed here, we are ready to talk about it through amendments and by my colleagues, that although there are some good things in this law, it can't bring what you're talking about, which is, above all, an increase in employment, because we don't understand how, you have to show it to us in some way, and we don't see what it will bring except arbitrary layoffs, endangerment, reduction of workers' rights, labour time negation, that is. working hours spent at work, out of a past-work system that is not an employer's reward. No, I don't. It is the foundation of every working man on which he builds primarily his knowledge and experience in the work process, not rewards. I think, unfortunately, our socialists have become what they fought against overnight, but the problem is that they're not a good learner, i.e. They learned to peel, because they were and will be in the future in the last bench. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4045	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4046	You know, it's very interesting and it's very fair that, regardless of what the DS fraction is, it's reminded that Serbia doesn't exist for two years, it hasn't existed since October 5th, as you think, but let's just look back at that period. You're telling someone about hiring party personnel. At the time you assumed power in this burning assembly, you had eight thousand employees in the administration that referred to Serbia and then the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. By coming to power, we find 70,000 employees in the state administration, 70,000. How did they come to be? We hired them?- I'm sorry. We produced all these party personnel?- I'm sorry. The consequences of your policy, not just an increase in pensions, not just an increase in salary, which you worked to win the election... After all, you were not a member of the government, but it does not redeem you, read the stenograms from the government, where your Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic says – this will lead us directly to bankruptcy, and your ministers Dulic and Sutanovac get it and say you have no idea what you're talking about. See, they led us to bankruptcy. It's the only thing we've ever made out of, like, eight billion euros. That it's earned, so come on, what the hell, every one of us wants to live a better life, that his parents live better, but those were exclusively loans under the most unfavourable interest we pay to this day. Everything we do, we do to reduce those interest rates and avoid these loans. Can't the one who did the robbery privatization to talk about the workers. This is all self-defense from robbery privatisation. You're saying this law is tycoon-friendly, so tycoon-like at the time of the robbery privatisation. Your tycoons and how unloved they are. It is amazing that someone so fond of European values, with such contempt, is talking about all the investors coming into this country. That's the kind of disgust you're talking about commercial chambers. With such disgust you speak of representatives of European capital, who here, whether they like it or not, employ hundreds of thousands of people. It's just amazing that you're so disgusted by your own political program. It's the EU. This is a law that supports the European Commission. This is a law that absolutely supports all foreign investors. Should we drive them out? Should we tell them to leave the country? Should we tell everyone that they don't hire people anymore? Would we like to have more domestic capital? It's wonderful, but in these 12 years, you've managed very effectively to make the capital either a robbery or simply spray it. You see, we replaced the Ministers of Agriculture. Yeah, you replaced them when they weren't doing well, but your parents are in jail. Your agriculture ministers are in jail. I'm sorry, not everyone. I agree, I'm sorry, you're right. I guess that's saying something. I guess he's saying how you've been doing and what you've been doing. I can't hear any concrete remarks about what it really is that violates our employee's rights. Past work? It's shrinking. Unfortunately, you have no past work in Europe. We're keeping him. We're keeping him anyway. You don't have one in Europe. They just don't admit it anymore. It doesn't exist. We're keeping him, like a whole series of rights. You asked me about pensions. Every year, 0.25% of GDP, every year. In 10 years, 5.35. That's how much we're gonna save from this law. There's no public debate. This law has been discussed, only these proposals have been discussed for over five months. More than 20 round tables were held. It's been discussed with all the unions, with all the employers, at the Social-Economic Council, in working groups where they were representatives. You can't tell us who brought the Statute of the Vojvodina without a single second of public debate. The highest legal act passed by our autonomous province. You didn't deign to discuss it with someone, you just brought it in. Oktroisali, so to speak, is the highest legal act passed by an autonomous province, not amending and supplementing one or more laws. Yeah, I'd love to write the law from the beginning and I believe we will, but this is the answer on time, this is the answer to time. You know very well that everyone who decides today about our destiny, in an investment sense, has been looking for these changes. He was looking for life. What I can transfer to myself, I can transfer that I may not have been as persistent as the minister responsible for this law, so that I am not all the institutions of life that are happening today, by the employment agencies, etc., regulated. No, we should have. We should have, but out of respect for the unions, because for them it was the lower limit they didn't want to go across. You know, 60,000 people work in those agencies. The biggest flaw of this law is that we didn't regulate it. We were supposed to regulate it, but out of respect for the socio-economic partners, we left it for a while later, and I hope it's very soon and we can do something about it. Besides the fact that you don't like the fact that we've achieved historical success in the election, and you've achieved historical success in the elections, you can't say, apart from that fact, I can't really hear what it is that violates the rights of the workers. Seventy-two percent, if you're going to use the law of numbers to speak, in this law, it's in line with union representatives, and even the expanded fact of a collective contract that suddenly wasn't good enough, and until a few days ago it was a major topic, it was a stumbling block, without an extended fact there was nothing. We convinced foreign investors to accept the extended fact of the collective agreement. We convinced our domestic investors to do it. We convinced our domestic employers to accept that. Suddenly it didn't matter anymore, and suddenly it doesn't matter anymore, and it doesn't help our law. You know, do the privatisation you did, destroy the entire Serbian economy and tell us to sell out what's left, just like that, what's left, if there's anything left, that some wonder has passed, that some miracle has failed, so now we're saying that we're going to sell out what you haven't sold out. Serbia is not so forgetful. Sometimes when it suits you, you say it's too small, and sometimes you say it's too small, sometimes you say that you should have had a public debate, sometimes you say -- what you were even talking about when you didn't actually change anything. So, the changes and additions that we have proposed here, which we have proposed to Serbia, are kept by workers. I don't know where you suddenly get such a fear that the conditions for firing are listed. Is it better if we don't know the conditions so he can fire whoever he wants? Why would it be fear if for the first time a clear indication of how to lose a job? Why is that so scary? On the contrary, it suits the employee, so he knows he can't be fired because he doesn't like the color of his hair, but it clearly says why he can be fired and can defend his right before the court afterwards. Why don't you say that for the first time we've introduced an institute that is revolutionary, which completely changes workers' attitude towards profit, which is that the billing list becomes an executive ID? All of a sudden, the worker doesn't have to go to the evidence fund anymore, doesn't have to go to the courts, doesn't have to hire lawyers, wait for five hearings. His billing list, which he gets at the end of the month, whether he's paid or not, becomes an executive document. It's like a bond. He's coming to court and all he has to do is put down a piece of paper that the employer has to run. Nothing more. At that moment, he has a guaranteed right. Not some of the tycoons that once were so soul-sponsored by the Democratic Party would sponsor concerts of folk singers at the same time, and the mine workers would strike him because their salaries were unpaid. You see, that's not gonna happen anymore. If there's money in the account, and you owe the worker that money, he'll get that money. Let's hope, not every time this way, but for it to be more natural and normal communication. Everything we've done, yeah, we've been doing to get new people to work. As you can see, representatives of all relevant international organisations have said we need a flexible labour market. We made it possible and there's a chance we could take advantage of it now. Robbery privatisation is the cause of such an economy, and then party employment and the purchase of elections through an increase in wages and pensions without any economic justification. Those who have done so would need to read this law more carefully and see what they have failed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4047	I thank Mr. Vulin. Replica was reported by MP Borislav Stefanovic, head of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4048	Mr. Vulin, Mr. Minister, I know you have a selective memory, because like everyone in your government, not everyone, but most of them, you have one hole that's hard to explain. Well, then you have a situation that, say, Madam President of the Assembly yesterday that a statement in which he says -- Serbia has been destroyed in the last 14 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4049	Mr. Stefanovic, you have a replica of Alexander Vulin's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4050	That's exactly what the minister does, who doesn't know that in 2000, when your party was in power, was not a state union but the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, I have to correct you, and those eight thousand people were in Serbia, not in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the administration. That's why that number was increased later. But you think that if you raise your voice, the truth will be receptive to the ears of our citizens. You do that all the time. You're in charge of six billion euros. You say and keep saying that you're paying back our debts and our campaigns. How is it possible that our public debt was increased? If you're getting your old ones back, you'd be shrinking, wouldn't you? He's grown, and it's drastic. And what did you make of that money? What's new about that? What DS privatisations? Only ‘Sartid’. But you don't mention anything about "Sartid" because you know it's not very convenient to mention "Sartid". Why don't you mention the government of Vojislav Kostunica who conducted all other privatisations? Why do you keep mentioning DS? You think people are gonna swallow that for the hundredth time? You destroyed the PIO Fund of Serbia. You destroyed Serbia's economy. You destroyed the infrastructure from 1990 to 2000. And we won't forget that. We raised it from the ashes, not you. And you're going to talk to us now and you're going to teach us moral lessons? It's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4051	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4052	It's a shame. You're asking workers to denecate their firms, to go to courts, owners behind their backs, to fight for their jobs, to carry their bonds...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4053	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4054	I'm done. Which tycoons are sponsoring DS? Who, when is everybody at your place today?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4055	Thank you. Minister of Government, Mr. Alexander Vulin, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4056	I see that ye speak with great sorrow, which the tycoons are with you. What's going on? Do you miss them? They're not here. As you well know, in these two years, if there were one, you'd have found him and you'd have found him. You were lifting from the ashes of the company that you sold to a direct contract. You raised from the ashes the economy you inherited and sold it to how you knew and gave it to whom you could. What big investments have you made? And that "Sartid" existed before. It wasn't made by some fraction of DS. You didn't happen to do something before that, did you? What's a fact, it's that in your term of office, since the adoption and the like, among other things, the labour law has been fired to the present day by more than 380 thousand people. Exactly. That's a fact. The fact is, you've left us with terrible debts, a terrifying administration. And when you talk about severance to the last employer, maybe we haven't touched that subject enough, that's so that DS personnel don't take two, three times as much severance. Only once in your life can you take severance. And not how your officials are used to it, so if you take 24 salaries, leave one administration, move to another job, go to a public company, which you can't do under that law, for two years you shouldn't have done it, but you do it and everything is fine. See, that's not gonna happen anymore. Unfortunately, it wasn't something that belonged to an ordinary man and that was happening to an ordinary citizen, but it was happening to your officials. And how does it always happen to your officials? These are the holes you might need to think about and these are the memory holes you need to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4057	I thank Minister Voulina. The word is from MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group. This closes the circle of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4058	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, some people in this room would like to say – we paid the political price of bad work in the elections and to wash their hands. I see a lot of people have a problem with the reminder of the time when they cheered and dressed up this country and it's enough for some ministers to end up in jail, and they lose the election or, as Minister Vulin says, to make a historic success by crossing the censorship and that's enough. No, it's not enough. It is not enough because the noose that we have set for us in 2007 and 2008 is an unreal, impossible, economically unfounded increase in pensions and wages in the public sector is a noose that tightens around the neck of every citizen of this country. And you who sowed that noose, you who increased your unreal pension by 72%, you who increased your salaries in public enterprises by 68%, you who contributed to the pensions account for 30% of the total public income in Serbia, you who, because of this unrealistic increase in pensions and salaries, brought pensions and salaries to expenditures in line with public income growth, would have been less public debt if there hadn't been an unreal increase in wages and pensions, the public debt would have been lower by 705 billion dinars or six billion euros. Where's the responsibility? Now you're looking for an overnight solution. Now you complain about the evil fate of the people who are out of a job. Why didn't they lose their jobs in the public sector? Why did 90% of people lose their jobs in the real sector, in real business? You who sowed a noose on our country's neck are now straining it by calling for a Ukrainian scenario, instability, broken heads, broken windows in Serbia, because we want to make that noose easier, because we want to take off and because we want to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4059	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4060	... to make a future for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4061	I thank you, Mr. Granny. According to the replica, MP Borislav Stefanovic, head of the DS parliamentary group, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4062	I don't know why you're yelling, Mr. Granny. Don't yell, there's no need.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4063	Please, Mr. Stefanovic, don't speak directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4064	I think it's incorrect what you're saying that we sold everything to a direct contract and you say over 380,000 people are out of a job. Right, but where? In the private sector. Tell the citizens it has nothing to do with the labour law, but that it has to do with the bad economic situation, the economic crisis and what DS was responsible for, for which she paid the price in the election. By yesterday, you were saying, 500 grand that we were guilty, so 400 grand, and now 380 grand. Maybe in the end we'll be guilty for 200 grand, and maybe we'll be guilty for a million. That goes with some progress that's amazing. Don't talk to us. I am now addressing the leader of most of whom I cannot watch, do not tell us about the sale of the party for whose time one controversial privatisation was and it was "Sartid", you who will sell "EPS", "Srbigas", "Telecom", "Lutrija" and airport. You're telling us about the noose. They talk about nooses of people, respected citizens, who did not pay for pensions, children's allowances, maternity allowances, paid nothing alive in 2000 when they were last in power, except in these last two years when a complete economic disaster was created and Serbia brought to the brink of bankruptcy. Otherwise, in 2012, the salaries were 12 times higher than in 2000 when you were in power. It's that hole in your memory. When you wanted to water people, not cold water, to remind you. I have to say, you just answer us if it's true and that's what I end up with. Is it true from the things we taxed...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4065	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4066	... That they narrow down and reduce workers' rights, that all that we said would be abolished would be abolished? We asked you nicely. There's no need to shout out here at the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4067	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The head of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic, reported on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4068	I can't talk about memory holes. This could be called a memory crater. You know, those people who led Serbia until 2000 to this rebirth that started with the burning of this building, sitting here in this National Assembly. You hugged them, you kissed them, you played basketball, you made peace with them, you even the victims. Then how were they good? Then how were they acceptable? You needed them. You can't share people just on when you need them and then they're good, then we'll play basketball, then we'll settle down, and then when they're not with us, then they're evil back in the '90s. Don't be hypocritical, don't share people when you need them and when you don't need them. We don't make coalitions, and we don't make coalitions on the must, on the turn of arms, we make coalitions on politics, on the future, on the reforms of our society. We've made coalitions on the need for our society to step out of obnoxiousness, from public funds being used to increase pensions, salaries, unreal, unnecessary, except for getting elections. Don't call the holes in the selection. I'm allowed to look everyone in the eye, I don't know why you shouldn't have anyone or at least allow citizens of Serbia. To tell you the truth, it's unnecessary for you to call on those memory craters, you're going to have a really bad time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4069	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Professor Janko Veselinović, please come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4070	Your Honor, I'm speaking to you about Article 106. We have a debate here that has nothing to do with the agenda. Here in front of the Assembly are gathering people who have come to protest about...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4071	Mr. Veselinovic, you've come forward after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's no one in front of the assembly. Thank you. The head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic, came forward. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4072	You can ignore me for a while, but you can't ignore everything. Article 107, you let the previous speaker, I don't mean Mr. Veselinovic, whom I don't look into because you won't let me, because then you say I'm talking to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4073	According to the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to address another MP in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4074	Explain to your colleague that's why I don't look him in the eye, otherwise I enjoy looking him in the eye. The second thing, when he mentioned the crater in his memory, he said a threat to which you did not respond and he said: "You will not go well, and this is how he did it with his finger, and you have not responded." I don't know how else to understand it, I don't know how to understand that a man says that we, look out for this, we were setting up a noose for the citizens of Serbia. Do you know what kind of accusation that is? And by raising their salaries and pensions. Imagine that. The man says, "You have burned the congregation and you have burned it in coalition with Velimir Ilic." Do you think that nobody really listens, that people don't remember for five minutes what happened? You're with Velimir Ilic in the coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4075	Mr. Stefanovic, you picked up the line. For the first time, you have now reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, please conclude your presentation. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4076	Yes, and I've shown you that you should have reacted twice, please, twice you should have reacted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4077	Professor Dr. Janko Veselinović, on what basis? According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 108, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4078	Dear Chairman, I'm reporting to member 108 regarding the conduct of the session. In the previous period, you allowed the head of the SNS and the minister's parliamentary group to talk about things that had nothing to do with today's session and the agenda, about the burning of the Assembly that took place in 2000, according to the head of the parliamentary group, and as Mr Vulin said, about the robbery privatisations. Are we forbidden to say that the robbery privatisation was at the time of Mira Markovic, whose member was Mr. Vulin? Are we forbidden to say that some people are still gathering outside the congregation and that this is not the year 2000, but in 2014, for some other reasons?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4079	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Mr. Babic's exposure is a replica of Mr. Stefanovic's exposure, so he could say in the replica what he thought he should say. I now give the word to the MP, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic on the agenda, his 20 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4080	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, it is now very clear to me that some people in this room have called democratic mujahedins.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4081	Mr. Granny, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4082	I understand that we have both survived well alive and well if economic experts such as Sutanovac and Dulic ran our country's fiscal monetary policy. The existing labour law was passed in 2005. Not long after that, two, two and a half years later, Serbia crashed into a global economic crisis. We entered the global economic crisis without any plan, without any strategy, except for the confusing, irresponsible statements of DS and Bojan Pajkic, either at the republic, or at the province level, irresponsible statements of the type that the crisis will not touch us or that the crisis is a chance for Serbia. Neither happened nor Serbia took advantage of the crisis, nor was the crisis a chance, nor did the crisis touch us. We're in a deep crisis because in a crisis, we've been acting like a drugged boxer with his guard down, with no strategy, no exits, no response to the global economic crisis. We put out the fire instead of the water with gasoline. The decline in economic activity of the Republic of Serbia's government's reactions was pension growth and wage growth in the public sector. All of this happened only for the sake of a single general ordinary survival in power, only for some government to form, only for some political party to survive. How else do you explain the fact that in Serbia pensions increased from 2007 to 2013 by 72%, that in Serbia, wages from 2007 to 2013, increased by 68%, and in the same period we had a stagnation of business activities. Where's the logic? Where's the math, where's the reason for that increase? There lies a fact in that noose around the door that you have set for all of us, as a society, as a state as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When on the one hand you have an irresponsible government, on the other hand the decline in economic activity, on the third hand the bad Labour Act, we come to the fact that during the period of validity of this Labour Act 354 thousand people have lost their jobs, of which 318 thousand people in the real, private sector. Less than 90% of the people who worked in the real economy lost their jobs with this labour law. Such a labour law, and if very rigid, when it comes to getting jobs, Rigid, and when it comes to job loss, he failed to protect jobs, except for protecting public sector jobs. However, the state must not and cannot be the biggest employer. The state must be an efficient, state administration smaller, more economical and in the service and economy and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but certainly not, the biggest employer. The biggest employer must be the private sector. It is devastating that in the period of validity of this law, 102,000 people have stopped actively seeking a job, 102,000 people feel that such a labour law cannot come to work. What good is the law if people in Serbia don't believe in it. What good is the law if 102 thousand people stopped looking for a job because it knows and assumes that the job was only under political patronage or familiarity or other ties in Serbia. Of course it was necessary for such a labour law to change. That is why we courageously entered into a change of the Labour Act. That is why we promised Serbian citizens and the electoral campaign the reform of our society, among other things, and the reform of the Law of Ornament. This is why we have proposed the Labour Act, which is market-oriented and which creates a favourable investment environment, and without a good investment environment there is no investment. No investments, no jobs. It's not the point of a law keeping existing jobs. No, the point of one law, a good labour law is to create new jobs, and we can only do that with the creation of a favourable investment environment. That is why the law is one in a series of laws that need to be changed to make Serbia a fertile ground for job creation. That is why we have proposed the Labour, Change and Completion Act, for which we have received support and international communities, we have received EU support. That is why I am not, I really do not understand the criticisms of those who tap heritage into the European perspective, the European future of Serbia, and they are criticising this bill that brings us closer to the European family of peoples. I've been listening very carefully to the debate that's been in our society, not the past few days, not the past few months. The past two years have been discussed and discussed the need to amend the Labour Act. They say there was no public debate. The task force that made up this Labour Act, the working group was made up of representatives and representative unions, were also representatives of employers, the Union of Employers, and the Business Chamber of Serbia, and national employment services, and representatives of the ministry, work, finance, state administration and economy. A wide range of representatives and state administrations and trade unions and employers guarantee both professionality and transparency in work. After all, in our society for the past two years, as the debate on the Labour Act has been held, I think the birds on the branch have learned what the extended fact of the collective contract means. However, if you thought the public debate would mean that with a bill of law we would go to an address on Crown Street, and we ask you what you think of this Labour Act? Although we do know that on the other side of that door on Crown Street there are people who have been running this country for 10, 12 years and who have contributed to the fact that 354 thousand people are out of work. I'm sorry, we won't ask you. Because what you knew, what you could show in those 12 years you ran this country. If you thought that we would knock on the door of an address in Krunska Street where people who supported 2001 were one law that was the Labour Law, which was more liberal than this law and was good, and now at the price of the riot on the streets, at the cost of the Ukrainian script, at the price of broken heads, at the cost of petty political points, call for unrest in Serbia because they do not agree with the law that the Minister of Labour then, Mrs Gordana Matkovic said that all workers would finally have the same chance. Is that statement inappropriate to you? Is that statement, too, that telegram of trust coming from all sides to the address of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to the address of Prime Minister Vukic, to the address, besides you, Mr Vulin? When support is in the way then, and when a Ukrainian scenario is called in, when there is instability on our streets, it's legitimate. I didn't even know that it's legitimate that democracy is only when one side speaks, and the other side is silent because I see that some frontmen, the frontmen, those stories, that understanding of democracy, it bothers me when I get up and talk about what's true, the truth that led to the irresponsible government of the DS. No one has exclusive rights to the labour law. The Labour Act is not exclusive to trade unions only. I respect the values of union association. It is necessary, it is necessary to fight for workers' rights. It's good that these labour rights are protected, kept, nursed. I'm against it when these union activities, through the corruption of individuals, are diminished, washed, dirty. And that was also, unfortunately, there is now in Serbia, but not only unions have the exclusive right to the Labour Law. The Labour Act has the right and those young people who, at this point, are now finishing schools, colleges, crafts, who are not looking across the border, are looking at us, looking at the Government of the Republic of Serbia, looking at parliament, looking at the Labour Act as if it would be easier to get to work, not in a party book, not in a familiarity I don't know in the state administration, but looking at their knowledge and what they can do and the Labour Act that will make it easier for them to work, but easier to create their own companies, to open their businesses, to hire people in Serbia. The Labour Act is entitled and has the right of an army of people who have lost their jobs. Who's representing them? Where do you hear their voice? Where you hear the voice of those people who are quiet, modest, and have 50 or 60 years old and say – and who I need, and who I built a company that some guys there have resold, sold, kidnapped, left out of a job. Who do I need? How many such people are in Serbia? In four years, you've created 354 thousand of them. This law is their law, and the government of the Republic of Serbia's obligation is to unite, to put a cap on all these interests, on all these people. The labour law is also right for employers and not all employers are bad and evil, as not all workers are bad. There are people in Serbia who are struggling, who are working, who are creating their own companies, second or third generations, and they want through this Labour Law to expand their business, to employ more people, and this law allows them to do so. This law wasn't built on the target of individuals even though some would like to represent it as a tycoon. Why not say that the benefits of employees have changed 22 members or 19% of the law is in favour of employees. That 20 members or 17.2% were changed for the benefit of employers. That in favour of both employer and employee, 21 members or 18% were changed. That remaining changes and additions have been made to legal technical harmonisation and terminology from a total of 53 members or 45.7%. Because of these same arches, because of the arches, because of this one treatment and towards employers, and towards employees, and towards young people, and towards the unemployed, according to all those who want a normal, orderly, decent state of SNS will vote in the day of voting on the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act. There are many reasons, many in particular and we will discuss in detail my fellow MPs. This law ousts the possibility of abuse or reduces it to a minimum. The severance, due to the technological surplus, was well spoken by Minister Vulin earlier, how many examples of people who were under the auspices of political patronage exclusively of political patronage took severances in a public enterprise, then moved a little into the agency, then from the agency to the ministry, and from the ministry to some local self-government. Business is made out of it. Who the hell was that supposed to be? Who could do that? Certainly not a regular man, but under political patronage, something like that could have been done. With this and this law, you put an end to such malfeasance. The change of residence, is it possible to hire someone in the state administration, and then after a few months, they fifty change their residence, and then as this National Assembly paid for some roads to Vranja and back that didn't actually move in the two circle. Do we have that kind of money to throw away? Can we be so irresponsible to the money of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? No, we can't. Now that address you signed up for the moment you qualified for a job and got a job, that's a friend of yours who'll be paying you travel expenses. Also, a defined obligation to keep an employment contract in place of employment, so that it does not happen to work in Vranjska Banja, and the contract is in Subotica. By the time the controls get to Subotica, that contract either changes or it's born or it's done I don't know what. That's how we want all those malfeasances that are and that are possible and that have happened with the existing Labour Act to prevent them. What has also made some kind of debate, which has not created a final agreement with the unions, is that this law no longer has anyone absolute protection. Besides, in our society, with that zero tolerance for crime and corruption, zero tolerance for anything that's wrong and wrong. Why is it bad that no one has absolute protection? What does that mean? Does this mean that all 26 unions in Serbia's MUP or 28 in the ZTP have no labour obligation? But they have an obligation to receive a salary? They don't have a job obligation, they don't have to come to work, and they can get paid. Now, it can't, it can only be for representative unions and of course, that protection applies to union activities and, of course, that protection applies to what's in the union's work domain, but it can't be a union protection to hide someone who's unfairly doing his job. You can't protect yourself with union protection by someone who doesn't come to work, who doesn't work, who destroys those companies well. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world. Why is it a problem to bring something like that into our society? This will prevent the abuse of rights by a wider circle of persons, the establishment of a large number of unions, and that all their representatives have paid leave, so by law and full protection from firing, which is a great burden on the employer, and it has been to the detriment of other employees. I think this law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act, a law that will create order in the field of labour legislation, a law that will open one, and create a better investment environment in the Republic of Serbia, a law that will create more and create more jobs in Serbia, and the goal is, not only to preserve these few jobs. The goal is to create and create new jobs. In the end, only in a few sentences will I turn to the effects of the Labour Act itself and those of the famous 0.4%, although there has been a demand from many investors and international organisations, that it be abolished. However, the solution in this proposed law on amendments to the Labour Act is part of economic logic. It is normal for an older and more experienced worker to have a higher price on the market than is a younger worker or trainee. It is normal for an older worker with more experience to have a higher salary than a younger worker. But it's not normal, but with that pay imbalance, which is the result of experience, which no one has any objection to, that additional senior workers, by 0.4% per year of internship, we increase their salaries. What about young people? When in this way young people will be able to come to their senses...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4083	Time, MP, it's been 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4084	Here I am, and therefore I think that this Labour Act targets and aims at all social categories of employees, but also of the unemployed, and therefore we will be pleased to vote on this law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4085	The word is Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4086	Honored presidents, ministers, MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed changes and additions of the Labour Act and the Law on PIO, viewing this as part of a package of reform laws that we have already passed, in tax reliefs in employment, through the tax procedure and tax administration and of course, those who follow in the coming period, which aim to enable such an environment in Serbia, for business, for business activity, to start hiring people in Serbia, and today the problem is number one, task and the biggest result, to employ a man in Serbia. In Serbia, people need a job. For these very reasons, which is also the law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act, gives its contribution to this reform law package, which is not only for the purpose of reform, because it is not a reform goal, it is a means, in order to bring about such an environment to stop the economic Sunflower and to recover the economy, or to employ people. Only then can we talk about any other questions. Before I started talking about this, I only missed a moment to tell those who are interested in the health of the Socialists, just to answer – thank you for asking, we are well, the only thing that we are responsible for accessing everything and what we have done and what we are doing, and these are the citizens that are best, as the best and supreme judge esteemed, and here we have only a responsible approach and nothing more, not an empty story. To talk at a time when there is a difficult economic situation in Serbia, which is one of our most difficult and most difficult problems, especially the difficult situation in which the economy and citizens are, to talk about the 90s, shows that the one whose past is the only future has no future, we do not want to participate. Why did I mention this as a difficult economic situation? Because it's directly related to what's going on and what this government wants, because economic recovery is the national priority of the time we live in, because everyone else depends on it, and social rights and all other rights, are we able to ensure our country's economic survival? That's exactly why I brought it up. This law, the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, whose solutions are in line with European labour standards, with European labour and social legislation, but which aims to create conditions and situations in which investment in the Serbian economy and development of the Serbian economy will be encouraged, without it there is no job. When there's no job, there's no story of any rights. It all depends on this, and that is why we support the government in this effort, in this priority, and we will make our own contribution to these issues, find the best solutions in this regard, because it is a question of all the issues of Serbia's future to encourage the development of the economy, which is independable from encouraging investment in the Serbian economy, therefore, there are no new jobs, there is no exit from the crisis unless in the next period we create a situation in which serious work and investment will take place. We see here the contribution of this law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act. I'll only end it when we talk about social rights. We're an SPS and we don't neglect those rights for a moment, but we're real and responsible. If economic opportunities are allowed, we will fight for social rights in the greatest amount, but if that is not available then it is an empty story and we do not want to participate in empty stories. So, only by growing investment in the Serbian economy can we result in the growth of social product and the growth of general social wealth. Only in such circumstances can we achieve the goal, which is both these governments and the SPS, which is to achieve the standard of citizens, and above all to raise the standard of those who live from their work and to create a situation in which, when we are working, we will get a profit from which we and our family can live. If we don't have it all in mind, and we're looking at the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, not wanting to let ourselves go to the point where we want to create this possibility, then we won't have the opportunity, and in particular Serbia won't have the scale. Serbia has a problem today, and today such a problem must be solved immediately. So, for those reasons, we'll give support. What we want to make clear is what we stand for on this path to stabilise the economic situation and economy in Serbia, these are the two things that I want to highlight here. The first is that both the laws and the Labour Act, which now seems to be, are to create such conditions in which the world of work and the world of capital will coordinate its relations through agreements and agreements, rather than through conflict. It is also a direct task of these authorities, encouraging, functioning in Serbia's system of collective agreements. Without it, we can hardly get out of this situation properly. That is why we believe that Serbia should develop in this way, that in the socio-economic sphere, the world of work and the world of capital on all key issues are being negotiated. Right away, it's not easy to agree, but unfortunately in Serbia, we view employers as enemies, and the employer as a cost rather than as an investment that contributes to his profits. Profit brings not only invested capital but also a living worker. It is difficult, but there is no other, and there must be a great effort to encourage collective bargaining, because if there is an imbalance between the world of work and the world of capital the result is general, the damage is general by state. Of course, that includes both competent and authentic and trade unions and employers' associations. I want to raise one question here in front of the ministry, or the government, right behind this, to deal with either the draft regulation or what is needed to determine, once in Serbia, who has representativeness and in what way? This is how a constant question is raised, and without authenticity, competent, representative, union and employer there are no conditions for that agreement to be reached. Just a few more sentences when it comes to a collective contract, and why do I insist? Because besides legal, it has both economic and social significance. Economic significance because it regulates profits among other things, in addition to all other conditions. So it's a deal, it's a negotiation thing, it's not a unilateral act that someone likes or doesn't like, etc. On the other hand, social importance is very important especially for the extended fact of the collective agreement, which contributes greatly to the harmonisation of the conditions in the branch, working conditions, conditions of pay, etc. I must draw attention to the fact that collective bargaining is an opportunity to meet the basic objectives of state policy because it provides stability of social development, social security and balance to balance common interests. The second thing we insist on, what we point to, is social dialogue. I very much appreciate that the government has had a lot of patience to compromise, dialogue to come up with the best solution. We call on the government to continue because Serbia needs not just any kind, but also a lasting and equal and institutional and whatever you want social dialogue. Without it in a state that is now a ruined economy, a ruined and poor society, social dialogue is the best way to get the country out of the zone of high social and political risk and therefore has no alternative. There's been a lot of talk about concrete solutions to the amendments to the Labour Act. I'll only be stuck for two questions. When it's individual, we'll have a chance to talk details. So, it should be said that in addition to harmonising this law with international standards and conventions and seas and the EU, we must change ourselves a little. If we want to go there, we have to accept those rules and the market economy and Europe, otherwise we'll stay completely out of it. In my opinion, protection of employees is more complete than it was. What's very important, and it doesn't penetrate workers' rights, it's reducing unnecessary administration procedures. What I also think is important concerns the exercise of supervision of the authority of labour inspection and criminal provisions. Why? We have one situation in Serbia that the current Labour Act has many examples that are not being implemented until the end, with workers, causing dissatisfaction and mistrust. I think that the state is obliged to side by side, of course without a dilemma and conscience in an employer who fulfils all his obligations, but also every security worker, to the end to protect him and we have no dilemma there. Two questions that I think are simplistic that are very important when it comes to work at all, it's work and profit, with respect for all other rights. I'm not questioning anything. When it comes to work, this Labour Act does not employ, but creates an ambience and creates conditions that can be easily employed. This is important to us, and it is our contribution to that part of all reforms, or the whole package, to create such an environment, such conditions that investors come to us, to be more competitive than others. They're not coming because we're beautiful, they're having conditions to do business successfully. There is, in my opinion, a significant question of a significant shift when it comes to amending the Labour Act. So, it does not hire, but it creates a basis, conditions for easier employment, and hence for curbing employment on black, etc. What's also important is the question of profit. I have to say, when it comes to making money, I'd just be stuck here for a little while on two things. One is, when it comes to the minimum labour price, I think it's a good thing that very precise criteria are given, what must be in mind to determine them. It's not to harm anyone. What I am sure and what I think, the government should not prescribe profits in Serbia, but the government must set the lower threshold of existential needs and say – below it no one should. Of course, by respecting this procedure, the socio-economic council, so if the socio-economic council doesn't make that decision within 15 days, then the government. I think that, in fact, when it comes to profits, the government's greatest responsibility to greatly influence what is the bottomline of the existential and social needs of workers and his family. I think that's a good solution. What else do I want to say when it comes to profit? We have very many examples. We read that in Serbia, profits are not paid in time. They even mentioned some great moons somewhere. Somewhere they mentioned companies that, at that time, until they pay their profits, have these yachts, planes, trucks, hiking, I don't know what else. I was inclined to, I keep thinking, that non-payment of earnings is considered a felony, non-taxation, criminal offense. Why do I say that? The owner of the profits is employed. It's earned. So it's not some right that's yet to come true, and when it's earned, no one can have it except the employees. Here, let collective agreements determine the dynamics and the way and everything else, but I remind you of the Labour Act, the existing, which does not change, I think the Article 110, is very precise – at least once a month and at the latest by the end of next month. What unfortunately wasn't there, or is now, a sanction for it. So I think you should reconsider that possibility. We have a sanction in criminal provisions if he doesn't drop the bill, if he doesn't pay in cash, but we don't have a penalty if he pays at all. Otherwise, I very much support and I think it's a very important and crucial change in this part that the profit calculation has actually been done properly and can be charged with, which is certainly one of the solutions in this part. I'll just look back, since I don't have time yet, my colleagues will continue where I left off, when it comes to firing. As this law does not employ, it creates conditions for employment, and it does not fire. But when it comes to firing, I think it would be fair to say that one advance has been made. Why? Because first of all, it's not so rigid to fire immediately, but it's introduced in a multi-stage manner, an opportunity that an employer can take advantage of. The most important thing to me is that we have to respect procedures, arguments, evidence. What do I mean? We shouldn't stop an employer from firing an employee if it doesn't work properly, but we can't even stop an employee from defending himself if that's not the case. The whole story's over. That's why it's important here - arguments, evidence. If not, there is a consequence, it starts with the legal consequences of illegal dismissal, and illegal dismissal is one of the biggest violations of workers' rights. Pay for everything you didn't do. I'll end up with one sentence when it comes to criminal provisions. Are they big or aren't they? I still think there's supposed to be that provision about not paying off regular profits. When it comes to criminal provisions, whether they're high or not, I have to remind you, that's what I was saying the other day when there was a tax procedure, punishment doesn't pay anyone who enforces the law. So whoever respects the law has no punishment. Who pays the fine? The one who doesn't respect. If he doesn't respect, pay even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4087	Thank you. I'm setting a break by 3:30. The first speaker is MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4088	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We have 64 MPs on the speaker list. First on the list is MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go, Mr. Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4089	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Duke of Hungarians on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act you heard from Elvira Kovac. In my presentation under this law, I want to focus on the pension and disability insurance of agricultural producers. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians, not only in the past, but also in the previous assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, dealt with this topic, a problem that farmers have due to unrealistic demands to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance. We are extremely pleased, since one part of the problem at this time, the amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, will be resolved, which is that future contributions for the PIO will not have to be paid by every member of the land, but will be mandatory only for the holder of the agricultural land. What was the practice so far? At the end of 2010, amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act were adopted, which changed the definition of members of the agricultural household. A member of the agricultural household, family agricultural land, or mixed household within the meaning of this law, is a person who lives and works in a agricultural household, a family agricultural land, or a mixed household. The biggest problem with this definition was that there were no clear criteria on the basis of which it was possible to determine whether someone was working in a farm home or only a member of a family. There was no answer to how it is handled if someone only lives in that address, but does not deal with agriculture. Unfortunately, the Pension-Employment Fund has acted by asking every member of the family to pay pension and disability insurance if the person is unemployed and has agricultural land in his possession. Whether someone rented agricultural land, whether it works in agriculture or not, each had to pay 32,000 dinars per year for health insurance, and 64,000 dinars for PIO. As a result, many farmers remain in debt to the state, since they are not in a position to pay these funds, because they own smaller areas or rent agricultural land, so they do not work in agriculture, they are only land owners. It is extremely important that the future Fund will not be able to ask every member of the household to make contributions. We think it's a huge relief for our farmers. But there is another part of the problem that needs to be solved. We can solve this problem through the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, and we all have a duty to deal with this problem. What creates difficulties for our farmers is that these 96,000 dinars on an annual basis should be paid. A farmer who owns, for example, a farmer. at 150 hectares and the owner at 1.5 hectares is the same amount for both producers. I have to say, it's causing a lot of trouble in the field. We're all aware that you're compensated by farmers who have to pay, of course, if they have something to pay. What exactly is going on? Farmers who land on smaller surfaces do not have the means to pay for insurance and are therefore obliged to do so. Those agricultural producers, the smallest, the smallest in Serbia, cannot, have nothing to pay for, and, unfortunately, many are asked for more than a million dinars on behalf of the debt, along with interest. The problem is that the state, i.e. the tax administration, started with them, depending on the size of the debt to the state, to take away agricultural land. In all municipalities in Serbia, there are hundreds of these cases. In all of them, the problem is the same – they paid PIO, but when there was no more funding, they couldn't pay anymore, so the state still wrote them and sent them bills and warnings with increasing interest and incredible amounts. They all believe they won't lose the land without which the survival of many and their families is unthinkable. We SVM MPs oppose this kind of tax administration behaviour towards citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure there's another way to collect debts, we just need to go out to meet the farmers, and together we need to solve the problem. It is not normal for small-scale producers to pay huge amounts for PIO on an annual basis. We're all aware that those producers who have 0.5 hectares simply can't pay at an annual level of 96,000 dinars because they don't have that much income. Therefore, what's important at this point is that the Ministry of Finance should stop, through the tax administration, taking away agricultural land. Because of all of this, we have initiated that there will be a change in the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance in recent times, through which we will address this problem and that smaller farmers will still not have to pay these huge amounts on an annual basis. There must certainly be talks between the PIO Fund, the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, the Ministry of Labour, the Boring and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance. We SVM MPs are ready to make concrete proposals. We have a concrete plan to solve this problem. It is important for farmers who land on a smaller area of PIO to pay in proportion to income and land size. The revenue can easily be calculated. All that matters is that in various ministries they take this problem seriously. It's not that we don't want farmers to pay for insurance, we're just suggesting that those farmers who land on smaller areas of pay contribute less. Finally, I would like to reiterate once again that the SVM parliamentary group in the voting day will support the law on amendments to the Law on PIO, because it makes it easier for family agricultural holdings. We hope that soon we will fully solve the problem that farmers have on smaller surfaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4090	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4091	Thank you. This law is better than the existing one, but minimally better. It's not measured by percentages, it's maybe missed. But regardless, I would be willing to support any improvement, even if it were minimally, that the procedure in which this law is passed, that the methodology for the adoption of this law is not boastful or inappropriate, or the time, or the space in which we live. The whole procedure is further degradation and social dialogue and parliament as the most institutions and relations towards employees and relations with capital owners. Many are urged, some likely because of their guilty conscience, to Zoran Djindjic when they talk about many changes, about many reforms, so that's what happened here with this law. I will remind you, this law, which was passed in 2001, known as Djindjic's law, was passed with the general agreement of both the unions and the representatives of capital and the government after a public debate that lasted nearly six months, I do not remember that it was then the Social-Economic Council, but some form of this inter-resorial and this conversation of the partner existed. The law otherwise respected then all recommendations of the International Labour Organisation, which is certainly not the case with this law. I won't support this bill. This law deals with public sector conditions, public sector employees' rights. Regardless of its general validity, we know that Serbia's basic problem in the public sector is where there are too many employees with poor qualifications, with bad habits, with a bad way of bringing them to these jobs and therefore hear me why a new law or amendments to the Law on civil servants were not first passed before this law, because there is a problem in this country. This law will not bring any investment, will not reduce the grey economy, will not allow older people to become more employed, nor will it bring greater opportunities for young people to become employed. I'm sorry about that. Whoever passed the law or set of laws, who would do something of what the good wishes are, I would be pleased and proud to be a member of Parliament who makes it, but unfortunately that is not true. What's the problem in Serbia? The problem is investment. Is this labour law the only problem for investors? Of course not. The labour force in Serbia is the cheapest in the region, it is definitely cheaper than Romania's. Serbia is the poorest market in the region, and all of these are reasons why investors visit us. In addition, we have a slow bureaucracy that is world champion in some areas. Minister Udovicki herself says we're world champions with 180 days of waiting, say, on a building permit. We have a corrupt administration, from porters to the Office of the President of the State, of course through local self-government, state institutions, ministries. We have general uncertainty and high crime regardless of statistics, like this or like that. In the morning when you turn on the TV, it's not a question of whether someone was killed, but what part of Belgrade was someone killed last night? It's hard to attract investors. Finally, we also have an unequal attitude towards investors here. Some investors have to pass the jungle, the jungle rules that are sometimes opposed to each other, and some other investors have nothing to do with them because they are Orthodox brothers, because they are the personal friends of this or that official, they are open to the possibility of bringing in a Lex specialis when it comes to building something on water, when it is necessary to give in to a public enterprise, as was the case with the NIS, as will be the case with the EPS. I'm afraid, and that's why there are no real and serious investors here. Finally, when investors come to this country, they are not sure, when they are talking to ministers, whether one of these ministers has a false diploma, whether he has a fake doctorate, or perhaps one of the ministers is in suspicious relations, whether or not he was an associate of some criminal clan. These are the reasons why there are no investments in Serbia. This law is better than the worst law that Kostunica and Tadic have passed together, but not good enough to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4092	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4093	Mr. Chairman, Article 107, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. I know the Constitution defines the immunity of the People's MP as spoken, but you still have to make sure you can't hide behind immunity for the spoken untruth that the MP has. There's been a lot of untruth here in a little while. First, if it hadn't been for the law to be passed in 2001 without social unrest. I don't know if the previous speaker slept over or was somewhere around the world or did some other job. Mostly, what history says, which is that in 2001, when the Serbian Parliament adopted the new Labour Act as trade unions protested outside. It was voted by even DSS lawmakers, although they did not support the law in principle, that in the months before that, Zoran Djindjic and resolute Minister Dragan Milovanovic had negotiated with the unions, they traveled across Serbia's cities to explain why changes were needed. Nine versions of the proposal were written. The International Labour Organisation's suggestions were adopted, but the law entered the assembly procedure followed by a union threat that it would organise a general strike. That's true, Mr. Chairman, to whom you have to point to anyone who's barking these speakers. On the other hand, it is a little hypocritical that a man who was prime minister of this country, whose members drank whiskey and bathed in a swimming pool on Schiller Street, the prime minister who suffered and watched as the Zemun and Surcin clan was created, is now insinuating whether some members of the government had anything to do with crime. Yes, we do, but by fighting crime and corruption, by putting those involved in crime and corruption on the defendant's bench, where they belong, and not hanging out with them, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4094	Mr. Babic, I'm obliged to respond to your breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure on my part. It's not my place to banish justice here now. That's one thing, and I'm here because there were some words that allowed you to hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I also have to realize that you've abused the Rules of Procedure and done the replica. I agree in the first part to comment on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Everything else was a replica, but I let you finish it within the time limit. Therefore, it is your right to plead... No, I don't. So, we're not going to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Zivkovic, on what grounds are you answering? (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. No, no, no, You have no right. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Mr. Chairman, you said it was a replica, I did not say. That's right. I just warned the People's Parliament not to abuse the Rules of Procedure, and he was given the right based on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to do so. The word has a minister, Mr. Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4095	This is another discussion in which the Labour Act is collateral damage, by the way. It's such a reason to get to the pay phone, and then you say everything that has nothing to do with the Labour Law, not to make any objections to the Labour Act, but we're used to listening. What I'm trying to say, believe it or not, is that the world listens to what we're saying here and when it hears about our country being said that it's corrupt from porters to president of the Republic, then you really don't attract investors, then with such grades you can really drive someone away and you can do absolutely nothing different. Is it so terrible that someone wants to come and build "Belgrade on Water"? What, it's not worth three million euros? Is that a shame? Should we be ashamed of it or that we got a billion euros from those same friends we deserved nothing, deserved the work of Alexander Vukic and nothing else? We get a billion euros, or a billion dollars on the most favourable conditions possible, and the best thing to do is to insult them somehow, to drive them away, if possible. It would be best if we told them some more insults and said: well, why are we here messing with our money that's welcome anywhere in the world, and Serbia has so much money that it doesn't need that billion euros, it doesn't need anything. We don't need anyone. In 2001 and every other first, and now in 2014, when you want to change something, you have a terrible resistance. This has now passed the Labour Act. It is now said that the Labour Act should also be withdrawn, and the Pensions Act, and the Banking Act, and the Privatisation Act. Everything needs to be withdrawn, everything needs to go back, otherwise everything will be suffocated in protests and strikes, otherwise we'll get Bosnia, Ukraine, who knows what's threatening. I don't understand why we're making friends. If someone comes and gives you a billion euros, why do you have to insult them? If someone wants to invest three billion euros, what do you have to insult them for? Because he didn't come to you? What's really not clear, this is now a personal assessment, not political, in politics when you become prime minister you've achieved something where you can do everything you've stood for. If you didn't make it then, then the big question is why all this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4096	Zoran Zivkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4097	Thank you. Now I'm sorry I made a compliment that this law is a little bit better than before. I didn't know I was going to cause a loud speech from the minister, who probably feels good in this building and this time of year, since July is the biggest month. That you're giving advice on what someone could do as prime minister, you'll give it when you get to that function. Until then, you've been fizzing where someone's been stifling. You're an intern at work. You could show a little more respect for this House, including me as an MP in this House. I didn't insult anyone, and especially not the people who didn't give us a billion euros, but they gave us a billion-dollar loan, which is fine. I voted for that law. Therefore, the observation is completely pointless and probably due to the month we are in, or July, but it's not even those three billion, it's not even a chip factory, it's not a Mubadala factory, it's nothing else. I'm not happy about it, I'm sorry that this 1001 night dream is not satisfactory but, believe me, I'm sorry, I have no desire for Serbia to be anything worse than it is today, and today it's a disaster. I just want to tell you that if you haven't permanently dispersed the power that you, the SPS, the JUL and the SRS were in the 1990s, if you haven't permanently dispersed everyone to think they were coming to Serbia, then Serbia still has hope. You destroyed Serbia in the 1990s, and these are the consequences in the last ten years because Tadic and Kostunica helped you there but the real damage, the basic damage, you did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4098	The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4099	You know how, the most unsuccessful Serbian prime minister certainly has the right to be angry. That's just fine. After all, how successful you were in saying that you lost the first election you were asked to do immediately. As soon as you first asked the citizens how you worked as prime minister, you went into opposition, from which you didn't make it out until today. So, so much for your great success, what you've been doing all these years and who destroyed Serbia. You destroyed Serbia by privatizing everything you've reached. All you've got, all of what you're looking at right now and what you're doing is the consequence of those very years where you've privatized absolutely everything you've come up with. I'm sure my colleague Risticevic will explain it much more eloquently than I do. That's where I agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4100	According to the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4101	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 107 has been injured, where we have an MP who, I guess, is very warm, alluds to the minister's behaviour here. It's really offensive to the minister himself and to this home. The fact that someone with a tragic circumstance was the prime minister, unfortunately, of this state, was also a senator in his own time and Caligula. So these people who once applied for an amazing 2001 labour law, which was anti-civilization, where the employer could have kicked you out of work without any explanation, today give themselves the right to insult both ministers and all MPs here. Such a law has contributed to the collapse of Serbia's detention. I ask you, in the future of such an MP, to address the minister in such a way, to warn you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4102	Are you asking to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Krlić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4103	Mr. Chairman, article 108 has been injured. You are required to take care of the work of the Assembly and the equality of all MPs in the hall. We heard at the beginning of the opposition's exposure that nothing was heard. We heard the minister was supposed to repeat his exposés, and then we heard the minister yelling. Now to speak too loud. We need to make a deal. I suggest that this be resolved by dividing the opposition's earphones that are usually used for translation, so it will probably be a coherent and unique tone. Or we could agree that the ministers would arrive half an hour before, so that they could coordinate their speech so that the opposition would agree when they heard and when they didn't. What they have certainly heard for 12 years, neither sees this people; therefore they are in so many numbers in the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4104	People's MP, I can't solve the hearing problem. That's what the departments do. Someone hears better, someone worse, someone talks quieter, it's the problem of the technique we have. Mr. Zivkovic, you probably want a replica, but I don't think it makes any sense anymore. I won't let you, especially since the replica went off the subject of the agenda. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4105	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, the Labour Act or better to state the law on poverty, which, misery, poverty, the Pensions Act that is not available, the law on the founding states that we found in 2012. My heart is always on the side of the workers, but not on the side of the bloated leaders of the union, but the workers, the poor and the hungry. I was an IMT worker for five, six years, traveling over 50 km, changing three transports to work and back, but those were happy times when you could proudly say that you were a worker, that you were a builder, that you were a metal man, that you were a textile man. We all wanted democracy at the end of those 1990s and went down the streets for some here on the right and when they got their hands on the authorities, the people stayed on the street, and instead of the promised democracy we got...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4106	Please, Mr. Marianne, get back to the agenda. Let's let go of the past, let's see how we can solve the present.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4107	Mr. Chairman, you should have told the previous speakers who weren't on the agenda as much as I am. Let me have the right to my introduction. It's about the Labour Act, it's about pension insurance, it's about peasants and workers. The peasant workers are brothers by the torture, brothers by the sweat, brothers by the blisters, today in the same stocking. The workers used to live a little better than the peasants, the peasants don't know what pension is, most peasants don't know what pension is, and on the agenda is the Pension Insurance Act. The peasants don't know what wintering, summering, sick, 99% of the peasants didn't see the sea, and the 1% that saw the sea served the navy. The peasants are retired in most cases, they touch from their ninth year to their death. Does anyone ask for the rights of these peasants, these workers, these poor people, these hungry people, without any rights, without the right to a dignified age, without the right to retire? Are we talking about only one employee who worked in the factory, and we're not talking about other workers who lived and worked in the country, who had no rights, no rights to dignity age, no right to a solid pension, no right to see summering in their lives, to be on sick leave, couldn't shut down the cow, couldn't shut down the field. Of 365 days they've been at work 365 days. No one paid them overtime. So, are we talking a little bit about them, or are we just talking about those who represent the sickly leaders of unions who are expensively paid for their unhappiness? Ducic said – the biggest accident is being old, sick and poor at the same time. Today it is a Serb village, poor old people with a working age of 60, 70, 80, who do not wait for retirement, have no pension, and you will see that this law is also very drastic on them, but that at least once again they see the eyes and faces of their loved ones scattered around cities that are wandering around without a job that they have lost under the old Labour Act, according to the old law on poverty, poverty, poverty, the law on layoff. The question is, do they have their rights, their right to a dignified age after such a long working life that lasts 50, 60, 70, 80 years? Those few who have obtained the right to retire have an allowance for primary school, 10,000 dinars, less than social aid. What's the message? What's the message? What's the message? Better to be a social case than a peasant. It's still better to suffer for the village than to suffer in the country. In the first village, the others died for the village. From the villages lead two one-way directions, not one leads to retirement, to privilege. One leads the way into the world, and the other leads to the next world, without retirement. When the last woman with a scarf on her head and a corner in her hand dies without a pension, Serbia will die without a pension. I'm done, end. They're emptying their territory. The average age is 59 years in the country, we're all mature for retirement. There are villages where there are no pensions, no dogs to bark at, no postmen to whom he would bark or have no residents or have nothing to feed him. In vacated Serbian villages, foxes, wolves and wild beasts are sparring instead of postmen. It is no longer a question of the Labour Act, the Pensions Act, it is a matter of sovereignty, integrity, security, survival of Serbia. Have we not come to our senses? Haven't we seen our empty territories being conquered by other cradles? There are villages without a single pension, deserted villages and beads. I don't need anyone else to tell me about the real worker, I was. There are no representatives here, at least those who worked in production, and if there are, they're in minimal numbers. As with peasants, it is not the fault of professors, doctors, lawyers to whom they have passed their sovereignty, it is their fault, as with peasants, not their lawyers or their doctors. I see they're not here next to me. I'd like them to be easier to fight for both our peasants and their rights. I see, I don't need to be told by the great masters of transition, the installers of wild predatory capitalism, I see that the rest of the once proud working class, I see them lurking in the dark until work, returning in the dark at night from work, empty pockets and stomachs every day, so that at night they take the children to bed early so they don't have dinner, so that, if they eat, in the morning they won't have breakfast. With poor wages, diaries, rights, so that their bosses can have as much as possible, fly their planes, charters, sail their yachts and eat lobster in the Maldives, climb the Himalayas. I haven't seen the peasants yet without having a yacht and climbing to the Himalayas, I haven't seen peasants and workers who have a boat on the Danube and climb Fruska Gora to rest. With them, not rarely, with tycoons, fly and their friends, party owners who have allowed them to redistribute social wealth in privatisation, better say grabbing. Everything that was ours became theirs. While workers were left without a right, without a job, without property, while shutting down 400,000 jobs by transferring workers from income to the spent side, they were thrown out of the private chain, so poor and fired they raised loans to them by pro-longing trouble for the future. Today is what happened tomorrow and now the years that were in 2012, now the years in which we were found in the house of the naked walls, the decomposed yard, and the billing came, the time came – return as you went. You know, reforms will be painful. With the ladder of success you can't climb with your hands in your pockets, the ladders of success were seen as an elevator by the former governments. Gentlemen, peasants and workers, martyrs, my heart and mind are with you, but I see your leaders teaming up with the guilty. The culprit and the victim joined together. You don't believe that until better tomorrow those who robbed you will take you away yesterday. My colleague, to whom I will answer only, is the best proof of this, who gives you the vineyards of Life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4108	The word has a People's MP, Free Homen, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4109	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I do not consider to be a dispute or an opposition with a position is a duty to pass reform laws. Surely the Labour Act is one of those laws. What's indisputable to me, no matter how much I criticize the passing of this law, is that this law has certain solid solutions. On the other hand, the question arises if you wish for serious reform laws to reach a consensus in society I believe that you should also do so with opposition political parties, regardless of what someone has spoken in parliament from fellow MPs who have how many mandates. Some people have also voted for the position, some people have voted for the opposition. What is my main concern is not in the lack of a public debate that has been conducted and that we are arguing about with the unions, with various employers' associations, etc., but the problem is that this National Assembly, I will repeat, and opposition and position had one day to consider the law. We know very well that the government can always, after a public debate, amend certain items of the law, because it is the only one authorized to propose legislation to the National Assembly. I'm afraid we haven't had enough time for these 24 hours, so all 250 MPs to clearly evaluate and give amendments. The consequence is that my parliamentary group has managed to table 26 amendments in this short time. These amendments have been written with the intention of us supporting this law, not to be apriors against and not to vote against it. I hope that there will be understanding, that there are really good amendments and that we will allow together, especially when it comes to such an important law, to come to a solution that is good for all of us, of course, aware that both trade unions and employers will never be satisfied with the very text of the law, because it is clear to all of us that this law has brought back some compromise, but when it comes to such laws, I think it has been expected and what has to happen, to come to a compromise. What is my main objection, and that is something that you have stated in terms of the adoption of this law, which is that this law will be passed in order to improve domestic and foreign investment in the economy, to reduce work to black, to increase employment. I don't think the Labour Act can either bring in investments or it can increase employment. Even this Labour Act, no matter what anyone thinks about the way it is implemented, can only increase unemployment, which, on the one hand, from the perspective of employers can be justified, but on the other hand, of course, should not explain the purpose of passing the law. What I want to suggest to you is that if this law is the first step that there are certain other things you need to do to make sense of this law, it means that you change certain other laws that will allow investment to come. No matter what the former government has done or in the last ten years or what's going to happen in the future, some things have to be taken over. Why am I telling you this? The fact is that since the beginning of the year GDP growth is 0.1%, it was projected 1% in December, the fact is that we can't obviously make out our own resources this country can't make big investments, not from domestic businessmen, nor the state has the capacity to help the economy, there's no money in the budget. On the other hand, the fact that the inflow of foreign investment has been around 200m euros since the start of the year, and that we need 2.5 to 3 billion dollars a year to make the budget work. The fact is that current budget expenditures have been increased by some 21 billion. It means the state is more expensive than it was. What do you do to prevent this flow, that this labour law makes sense and some investors come? They won't come for him. He may not make some of them leave, but the new one won't come. First of all, you need to seriously consider following this law on the work issue of VAT height. Is he responding to investors, whether someone is willing to invest in the country based on him? What about the profit tax? Let me remind you, your government has increased the profit tax. I don't see the results of the profit tax hike. Payments in the budget are cut, foreign investments are reduced. Further, corporate property tax, that's what you need to think about. Various taxes, building land fees, these are the things that will make investors come, these are the things that will make someone invest money in our country from which they will have revenue from the budget, and these are people only when they find an interest to hire some people and then we can talk about the positive or negative effects of the labour law. These are the things that are the preconditions and without which I think this law will remain a dead letter on paper. It is not disputed that the ruling majority has a majority, it is not disputed that they will be voted, but I fear what will happen if in six months or a year, two questions about the effect of the law are raised. We'll put it in this House to see if there's increased employment, and that's what you promised, and that's not done through this law. What if in a year, the number of unemployed increases, which is now very likely? It will be the fault of course of the ruling coalition and of the government that has proposed such a law. To go back to the Labour Act itself, I've already told you there are 26 of our amendments. We're ready to vote for the law if there's any willingness to adopt them. What we especially insist on is, and that's a question so-called. Vulnerable groups, i.e. people who have a special need for protection by law. So we insist on protecting pregnant women, mothers, disabled children with special needs. I'm going to give you just one amendment that I think you really need to think about, which is very significant, which is the right to an extended absence from work for parents, mother or father, whoever takes care of the child, for those children who have a severe degree of psychophysical interference. For example, the standard in Croatia is about eight years old, in Slovenia it is nine, with us in Serbia for five years. By increasing to eight or nine years, I think it's a small number of children first, it won't be a big problem for the budget, and I think parents who have such problems and who know parents with such needs are aware of the fact that you can't work and take care of the child, and especially given that some age for children with such special needs is very important. It's a period in which you can work with children, teach them, try to train them to live on your own, because one day parents won't be, and there's little chance that children will get rid of such problems. So, there are a number of things that can be adopted in this law that will not essentially affect the budget, and I think they can be useful to the citizens of Serbia and, of course, useful to the government itself who will adopt and accept such amendments. In the end, we really want and we think that reforms should be implemented, that everything that is pro-European and everything that will bring some better life to the citizens should be supported, but I think that reforms should be implemented in general. There is no need to attach excessive importance to any law because in this way it will go one step at a time, especially if they are not in line and there will be what is the most important result, which is a better standard of living for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4110	The word has a Minister Vulin, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4111	You see, I wouldn't answer, but you've set up a specific one, you've essentially made a concrete proposal, which is rare, someone has made a concrete proposal. You see, by law, these are amendments and additions to the law, it's not a new law. We can't change the amendments to what a member has not changed. So, specifically your proposal, we can't change it now, and by the end of the year we're going to pass a law on financial support to families with children. I think it's that there's a place for that kind of measure before the Labour Law. Anyway, there are a few more concrete laws that I think we need to pass by the end of the year where the measures you've been saying will find their own space and find their place. So the initiative makes sense. It is indisputable just now that it is not possible to do so now in the Labour Act, but now that we are talking about reforms, I think that labour legislation needs to be cleared of everything that has nothing to do with specific working relationships, and that a whole set of other laws that regulate social legislation and many other things should be made.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4112	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4113	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we are finally discussing today both amendments and additions to the Labour Law and the long-awaited half-lifetime of working legislation and its alignment with EU's assets. For the sake of the public, this is not a new Labour Act, these are amendments and additions to the Labour Act and in this respect, the alignment of it with labour law or does not comply with EU labour law depends on the view. The fact is that it was the collapse of the Serbian economy, and we know that the Serbian economy was collapsing as a consequence, it simply had the disintegration of all those working habits. The fact is that current working generations have absolutely no working enthusiasm, and so is their working effect, and they do not seem to have, either, working culture as our ancestors had. The fact that we are also quite socially submerged and that it is increasingly rare that individuals who are honest, honest and responsible do their work, who actually observe their work through one vision and through one prism of longevity and who are thus willing to sacrifice themselves, and for better tomorrow, today, for less pay, and for all the sakes of their well-being, but also for many others. On the other hand, it's always the side of the employer, and there are facts that don't belong to us as a society. The fact is that many employers have learned, left that old common culture that has been cherished so many centuries in our Serbian society. The fact is that they have a much lower level of respect for those who work for them, which are Serbian workers. So over time we entered a vicious circle that is very difficult to get out of, and of course it is never good or desirable that society in which, of course, employees resent a lot of things to employers as well as a reverse trail of events when employers resent a lot of things to employees. To be clear, Serbia has long ceased to be a self-government society. Serbia today is a capitalist society, the kind of society in which one who is actually the head of business decides who will work for him and he is the one who chooses the employees. Finally, the time has come to realize that exactly and just flexibility in employment and, in fact, the same flexibility in firing enables and encourages labour market mobility and that such mobility can be part of each worker finding a place under the sun. In that sense, the DHSS supports a good part of the proposed changes and additions, I say and stress, just part of the changes and additions. It is also clear that no employer will fire the worker she is pleased with, etc. Of course, on the other hand, you have to be objective and you have to say some things, which is if we are trying and if we achieve this long-sufficient in the private sector flexibility, and that same flexibility in the private sector allows those who are the best to have jobs, so if we have to have unemployment, and unemployment simply can't disappear overnight, then let the unemployed then at least be the worst, and not the best in our society. I want to send one message from this place, which is that citizens don't have to worry, because of course there's no reason to worry about the one who's going to be fired just because something is changing or supplementing this bill proposal, but anyone who doesn't do well will be fired, and anyone who's being held accountable and anyone who watches his workplace with whom he's grown up. When it comes to this law, anything that relates to changes in the way of employment, determining profit, DHSD will support it. However, this law, although it has done some important about 20 newspapers, has two serious flaws that I have to point to, and through which it has responded, is also an amendment, because I simply cannot believe that these two are, in my opinion, striking flaws, the proposaler's intention, but I believe that they are the result of the accidental illusion of the promoter. The first flaw is that such a bill provides for the possibility that foreigners who have permission to work in Serbia can base a working relationship for a certain period of time without restriction as long as they are allowed to do so. For example, a foreigner's work permit is granted by sending a letter stating that he needs a specific foreign name and last name. Since there are no restrictions on this, of course, if a stranger can work in Serbia, nor can there be such a restriction, this means that according to a proposal with a stranger, just like this, a law with a stranger can conclude a contract of work for a certain time, without any restrictions. It seems to me that this solution will eventually create an unhealthy one, create an unfair competition on our market, because, for example, the employers of Subotica will employ citizens of Serbia with Hungarian citizenship. For example, if they employ a Hungarian citizen, they will be able to have with him a working contract for as long as they want, and if they hire, the Serbian citizen then that work can indeed take some time. Also something can happen in Mali Zvornik, Novi Pazar, can happen in Dimitrovgrad, Medvedja, etc. We all know where that would lead. I don't think such a thing should be allowed, because on the one hand unfair competition will be introduced, on the other hand discrimination, and on the third hand what's very important is that long-term national interests will be threatened. Of course, the second flaw, as I also believe, I have already told the apparent legislation, is precisely from Article 82 of this Amendment and Supplement Law. In fact, we can't afford that luxury of letting pregnant women get even with all the other employees. As a DHSS, we simply cannot accept this kind of a member of the law, nor can we go over it lightly, and therefore, to the same end, we have responded to the amendment. We are even inclined to call on the Ministry to simply give up on that Article 82 and its position 1 which, of course, decidently states that in Article 187, at the end of Article 1 point 1 is added to the word: unless the conditions laid down in Articles 179 and Article 1 to 3 of this Act have been met, and if you read Article 179 point 1 of point 1 and it is said: "if the results of the work are not achieved", etc. It is certain that a woman who is seven months pregnant cannot achieve the results of work...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4114	Time, Miss Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4115	... which she had achieved before she was pregnant. Of course, about this and all the other concrete things in the discussion of details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4116	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4117	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, one of the richest people said on television, if we had hardworking workers like the Chinese who wanted to work for so little money, we would have prosperity. I commended him to own a high-class awareness of capitalists. It's the interest of every capitalist, to have a valuable and cheap workforce. We as a small poor country, obviously have one of the resources with which we think we're going to advance, cheap labour, just need to attract investors. So, the investor is there now some hope or salvation we should be counting on. I hear he doesn't think very well of our values. We hear we're lazy, lazy people and it just has to be much, much more valuable, head down, work and you'll be a great worker. It's nothing new. History is the struggle between labour and capital, between the servant and the master, so it was and so obviously will remain. But I'm talking about something else. If we have to do something, we don't have to praise him too much. We don't have to move into all this right now, swear to reform. What reforms? Let's see what those words even mean. What does reform mean? Reform means you're changing form into something better. But don't call mere restoration, step back, reforms. So, reducing the rights of workers who have been bloody acquired in the last centuries of fighting suddenly easily say no, that's too much, it doesn't bring enough profit and it's not desirable. The result is what we have in the world today, one terrible distinction, the concentration of total wealth in the hands of 3.4% of that population. Finally, I see we know who's responsible for the crisis. I'm not going into history. Looks like they're responsible for it, first of all, the workers. They didn't work hard, and that's one of the reasons why you're going into a crisis. It's not even the bankers who, with their financial speculations, are the world's economy, who are causing a crisis, and when it comes out of the crisis, they're even richer, but also many millions of unemployed, hungry, with no workers' perspective. That's the result of getting out of the crisis. I know we're too small an economy and a small nation under great influence, pressures, whatever you want, but let's call some words a real name. We had one psychological problem when we were already talking about workers. It's not just that they're lazy. They were convinced here for 50 years, that they were the owners of everything. They are the owners of Đerdapa, Kolubare, every company that it is social property and they are managers and owners. Suddenly without any revolution or blood, the governments said, no, no, that's bullshit. We're the owners and we sell whatever we want, buy whatever we want, bring in a "ban ship" whatever we want, and you, what we do to you, shouldn't have believed so much. This deception is something that has grown deeply into the disappointment of our working world and it is not so easy to learn from it suddenly, with a beautiful liberal story of how important profit is, how important it is to have big investors come, etc. I want to start with reality, is it really so that we had to count on us to be big when these investors came, then we solved it. An investor comes in, hires 100 people or 200 people in a factory, so if she stops working, he shuts her down, and those workers stay with us. Why haven't we tried our tradition to develop cooperatives? Serbia was able to hold itself 200 years ago in major conflicts with major forces such as Austria during the customs war and others. We paid thousands or millions to get some foreign investor to invest some money and hire a hundred workers. That we gave that money to the peasants, to try to join in cooperatives, to export both raspberries and caecies, and not to let the buyers take it for 10 or 20 dinars, and then sell it for 100 dinars and make 500 percent. We haven't tried what's called self-employment, to give money to families that want to start a business. There were many opportunities to rely on our own strength. Of course, I don't mind the big investor coming, but I don't think they're gonna be big here and they're gonna stay here. We have to create our own economy. We have some chance with this intelligence of young people dealing with digital technology, making software, a lot of things exporting themselves. No one's helping them direct and organize them. And finally, we don't even invest in that workforce we're discussing right now, which is education and health. An uneducated and ill worker, not a competitive worker, but our today's education and health care are something that convinces me. And in the end, don't give up any fluids so easily. When we say Europe, that's where we make great mystifications. Europe is not unique. It is not true that there are regulations in Europe what the Labour Act will look like. In every country they are special, each country has its own reasons why and how it solves it. Do you know that in many countries there are, there are mandatory decisions of workers in a private company, that there is mandatory participation within a private company, and they don't give a private person, they're all rights, and you workers while you're doing well when you don't work later? There are some liquids that are bigger than the neoliberalism of today that are trying to convince us that we have no salvation except that the richer they are, and the poorer they are, the poorer they are. Serbia is a terribly poor country and we must have some social solutions to what to do with this world. Someone here mentioned, a colleague, over-realizing, etc., who meets many countries that have worked very hard to build a neo-liberal economy. When the desperate millions of masses show up, they don't know where they're going, they don't have a chance, they don't have anything to live on, they ask their families -- what are you and who are you? I was unemployed for a while as a university professor. There's an unemployed man's problem, not just because he's not getting paid, he's psychologically demoted and destroyed. When a woman asks him, what about the pay? There isn't. Kids? There isn't. When a son asks, what does your father do? Nothing, not an employee. These are people who experience major social traumas and these crimes per family that take place every day, the result is precisely these neuroses. So, I mean, it's not all the dream of how we watch it on television, so, I don't know, this country has done this much, they've done this much, because they've long been rich and they've had colonies and robbed rich societies, so when the state isn't rich, but they'll survive, but those of us when they're out of a job won't. We also joined the Pensions Act with the Labour Act. I'd say that's a little cynical. Come on, if you don't, if it's work, we'll see if you can get a pension. What about pensions now? Austria has avoided a major economic breakdown now, unlike some countries, because Austria had the strongest pension funds. The rule of these funds is that you can't risk investing, it's an economic category, people have invested their money and worry about how this is going to develop further. There are many possibilities, but for all this is the assumption that here in parliament, with this little opposition that there is, the ruling majority does not view as some enemies that should immediately be attacked, that ministers with a thundery voice threaten, call for history, etc. Let's have some modesty. Calm down. You've been elected here by this House, you have to behave properly, to receive criticism, to go through some attack that you don't like, if an MP does, and not to turn it into a rally by proving that we are the salvation of humanity. I'm the oldest and the oldest and most likely human. I've been through everything, I know everything, and don't let me, if we start talking about history, I'm afraid we'll have very unpleasant conversations. I urge that every speech be heard, that every amendment be seriously considered, and that you know that what is outside this hall, that may be close to a million people who expect that something good will happen to them, that they will get some valid law, although I do not believe that this law will help them very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4118	Thank you. The word came from the Serbian government minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4119	Ladies and gentlemen, I won't, I don't have a thundery voice, and I don't want a thundery voice. Somehow, this debate, the entire government has decided, we as members of the government have decided to come or the largest number of us, to participate in the debate before parliament because we are not ashamed of this law because. This law should bring a good thing to the citizens of Serbia, and I am sad that many other people who had had a chance before, who had had a chance to change things in Serbia, then were silent, then did not express the desire to change things from the root and which essentially led to today being in a situation to get chestnuts out of the fire. It's just, when you look at the situation, I've been listening to some of my fellow MPs, who rightly said that some people have become much richer during the crisis, and workers are left out of work. I couldn't agree more. Some people became billionaires, bought huge assets, participated in such privatisations that they had to react from Verica Barac to the European Union all. The Serbian public was shocked to see how these people left hundreds of thousands to be precise from 2008 to 2012, 354,000 street workers. So many people lost their jobs, most of all in the private sector, and some people became serious billionaires in that period, and it didn't bother them. Unfortunately, the current government, the SNS, at that moment did not act on any authority. What I regret is that many in that period have not even been processed, some have not been asked a question. Investors not only didn't come, but they were leaving this country, it didn't occur to anyone to bring one euro here, not to talk about corruption that ruled the country, which is why we were high on all the corruption lists that all the international institutions had set up. It made it impossible for people to work in this country. I don't know what was waiting for this period to develop cooperative? I don't know why he didn't give money to young, family businesses, families to develop. I don't know who stopped them then? Who then kept people from doing that? Why didn't we give money to the peasants back then? Why didn't we give money to get things started? Who led to today's situation that wages and pensions in the public sector are 61% of public revenues? Who brought us into such a wonderful, let's just say, impossible economic situation? Our public debt increased by six billion euros from 2008 to 2012, thanks to the very irresponsible policy of the then government. So we've been put in a situation where no one in this country wanted to come or hire anyone else. Now the state has to do everything in its power to actually implement reforms. Psychologically downgraded and destroyed workers and Irons, Magnochroma, Novkablom, and many other companies where other people on the street were left out of work just when many didn't even want to ask anything, others were indifferent, others were looking forward to it, and when these people, no matter what motives, stayed on the street psychologically demoted, destroyed. This government doesn't want to see psychologically demoted or destroyed people, we want to see people start working, because all those who have told us wonderful stories for years, when they were able to change things, did nothing. Now we have a chance to do something, and that's why I'm asking all the MPs to think carefully and give their support to this law, because this law should allow some people to start working again, go to work in the morning, get investors into this country. Anyone who tells you otherwise is not honest and does not tell you anything that is good for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4120	I thank the minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. For his word, Professor Dr. Janko Veselinovic reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4121	This time I am not sure that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, but I will ask you – is it possible that my understanding of the assembly work is, I am talking about Articles 108 and 27 of the law we are discussing, just asking one chairman, please give me an answer, do you know that any country of the world in Serbia once, the police minister defended the Labour Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4122	Thank you. Mr. Vesenovic, the entire government has been invited here, all ministers are participating in the debate, if they feel that there is a need to explain and provide an explanation within the law we are discussing today, they can take the floor. I believe that the discussion of the police minister, Dr Nebojja Stefanovic, is certainly very useful for parliament and MPs, and thus he received his word. Minister Alexander Vulin called to say the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4123	In response to this question, except, as a matter of fact, all members of the government are legislators of these laws, but specifically, the police minister has great responsibility when it comes to the PIO Act. A good part of the benefits of a job is for the Ministry of Police. What would be a dispute if the police minister spoke about it? Why would it be so controversial for anyone to propose? Where does that come from, especially if it's the police, so it's part of our society? Are we ashamed of the police? Have they become a problem from somewhere? The police have 47,000 members. That's 47,000. It's 47,000 families and they have no right to say what they think of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4124	The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4125	Thank you, Madam President. I admit, sometimes each of us is in the heat of a parliamentary struggle to reach the Rules of Procedure, sometimes abuse. I advertised Article 107. I think it's a lack of respect for the Serbian Parliament's dignity to report to the Rules of Procedure, and then say, "Well, no, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure." The dignity and construction of dignity is the need and work of all the MPs, whether they are from the government or from the opposition. I think the proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a collective body, the SNS as the most dominant, greatest and most responsible. We don't run away from that responsibility. After all, I think it is far better to have all ministers here in parliament than it was at a time when ministers fled the National Assembly and we had to beg them to come in here and answer certain questions, and I am talking about the time of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic. I think the humiliation of dignity is what happened a few minutes ago, but the humiliation of dignity was when the Labour Act was adopted in 2001, so one of the MPs, it seems to me, Mr Bora Novakovic, voted from Thessaloniki. Even then, you polluted this Labour Act, which was more liberal than this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, which is now in the process, but at the beginning you polluted it with things that are not for parliament, which are a disregard for parliament as institutions, which are disrespect for Serbian citizens, which is that the 2001 Labour Act was voted from Thessaloniki. That's what MP DS Bora Novakovic did.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4126	Thank you. I believe that there is no injured article 107, although it refers to the chairman, Bečić, although I also listened carefully to the discussion of the MPs you called for. And he said himself that he wasn't sure it was even a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to make a statement about this? I'll realize it's a no. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable presidents, respected ministers, today we have two laws before us that have recently caused serious public reactions and, I may say freely, have been even subject to the abuse of various groups in the public. These are amendments to the Law on Labour and Amendments of the Law on PIO. Of course, these are the two laws we're all particularly sensitive to. The labour law should regulate the basic right to work and to work life, so that someone can live a decent life. There is only one condition: that you have a place to work. Today we have heard a lot of qualifications about this law, but what we have all agreed, it is that it improves exactly the relationship, that the law itself is a better solution than the previous Law on Labour, i.e. to amend and supplement the Labour Act as it has been in practice so far. Of course, there is no perfect Labour Act that will simultaneously satisfy all interests and needs of employees and all interests and needs of employers. The labour law is always a compromise of what is best for society as a whole and what will certainly lead society forward. What we are truly concerned about is one of the exact figures Mr. Minister presented today, which is that in Serbia we have less than a million employees and a million and 700,000 pensioners. So, one employee supports almost two pensioners, and one pensioner endures many more members of his family. We came into a vicious circle as a society and this is an attempt to get out of that vicious circle rationally, positively, as easily as possible and as quickly as possible. That is how we in New Serbia understand the amendments and additions to the laws that are before us. My esteemed colleague Dubravka Filipovski individually spoke our views and our analysis of the bill before us. Mr. Minister today has just told a fellow MP that he has not made a concrete proposal for change, and I have one application for Mr. Minister, just knowing that he is benevolent in the matter of persons with disabilities. I think it's only a failure to do it in Article 43 that the board may yet propose this amendment. Thus, Article 43 amending Article 101 adds the new position 2 which reads: “The employer is obliged to ensure a reasonable adjustment of the workplace and the process of work for a person with disabilities. ” The introduction of this provision would result in the constitution guaranteeing special protection of persons with disabilities in the field of working relations, Article 60(5), and the implementation of the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which Serbia ratified in 2009. I really don't think there's any problem with this particular change through the board being brought into the law. I don't think the law will make it less quality. On the contrary, it will be more excellent. Just what the minister was saying and what some colleagues have noticed today, the law has made some less visible by now, or, as we say, vulnerable categories, have really improved their labour rights. What is Serbia's problem at the moment, which is a sociological issue, is that the work has devalued in Serbia. That's what we need to be concerned about as a society. The only thing that has increased is the price or value of jobs in the public sector. Serbia should worry about everyone wanting their employer to be a budget rather than an economy. Serbia's largest employer must be an economy to make Serbia a rich budget. It's the only rule and pure, real legality that exists when it comes to the development of a country. As for the second bill of law, the Law on PIO, of course, and we can argue about it day and night, and no solution will be ideal and will satisfy all those who are interested, but the right to retire is achieved by citizens and no one has the right to deny them. Society is obliged to provide them with a peaceful and dignified age after the past work. It's hard to secure funds. Today, we have come to the clear, exact data of the truth that at a time like this, in Serbia that is in crisis, in Serbia that is in transition, in Serbia that has many sociological traumas, after all that has happened in these areas in the last two decades, it is really difficult. It's the responsibility of all of us. We'll slow down when and how much we need to move to retirement. I think that what is offered, especially when it comes to women, is something that we will stand for in the next period, that however, the retirement of women and their retirement pensions are slightly different from the general situation, because women in Serbia who retire are not in the same health and social situation as women in other European countries. So women in Serbia left behind not one but three working centuries when they came in the year to earn their pension. But about that -- then. We have before us a proposal that we said as a Parliament club that we would support, however, and here we had a concrete proposal. We have seen that in Article 9, which changes Article 60 in item 2 after point 2), which lists the points in which women are allowed, point 1) and point 2), that a child is enrolled for a half-year of employment for a woman, for two born children for a year of work. We have a proposal as a parliamentary group, and I think we're going to stand up for it in some period that's ahead of us, no matter how hard it is to realize in society, that two years of working hours are being signed up for a woman who's given birth to three children and three years who's given birth to four or more children. Of course, and to move that line a little earlier, to, say, 2020. Because of Serbia's demographic image at the moment and because Serbia is one of the oldest nations in Europe, I think we need to think about this aspect, although we are aware of how difficult it is at this point to realise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4128	Time. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4129	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, after this long and exhausting debate that is likely to continue, I will try in these few minutes that remain for my MP group to give some of my vision of this law, i.e. Amendment to the Labour Act. There was a lot of discussion on the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs yesterday, where we stayed for four and a half hours, and one or two hours we discussed this law. For the sake of the public, since I can see that the views are already being used here and there is only a moment of voting waiting, I will try to explain and point to the things that were probably, since we haven't heard from the promoters, the reason why the talks at the Social-Economic Council, which was long before the elections and especially after the formation of the government, until the day before, announced as a place where compromise will be made, where there will be a consensus and where an agreement will be made, on the one hand, between the unions, the government and, on the third hand, employers. As a result, we have an urgent bill that came to the MPs yesterday to discuss the principle, and tomorrow we will probably in particular, the amendments, so that Thursday or Friday this law is passed. The view of the congregation’s majority is quite justified that what it considers to be right and that it should be adopted, it puts on the agenda and vote. It is normal for the opposition to say everything he thinks is wrong, and it is the citizens who will judge whether they have given their trust and votes to people who deserve that trust, or whether they trust it next time in the elections to deny it. Here we have heard a few thesis, and one of them is that this law will bring an increase in employment, an inflow of foreign capital, new investments, and that, on the one hand, this labour law, it is one of my thinking, is maximumly liberal to employers, maximumly restrictive to employees, and that is possible if the congregation majority so solves, where the employer has much greater powers and much more legal opportunities to cancel the labour contract. On the other hand, the employee, i.e. worker, has less rights to defend that work and less opportunities to earn. Now let me explain it to you on a few examples, which we will work through the amendments in detail tomorrow. In the law, unlike the old Law that was passed in 2005, the compensation for the vacation is quite different. Under the new law, the fee is lower. Under the new law, there is a difference in severance upon retirement, or loss of employment. It's smaller. There's a difference in the payment of shift work. Under the old law, work was paid on the second shift and the third shift, and under the new law only night work was paid, 26%, as it was under the old law. Under the new law, work on a certain time is twice as long as it was under the old law and now stands at 24 months, with the possibility of re-employment for 24 months, under certain conditions. This reduces the right, we discussed it a long time ago on the Labour Committee, and reduces the possibility for young people who are first hired to be creditworthy. Because if someone works two or three times a year, according to our banking system, according to our laws, he's not creditworthy. I asked the question yesterday – how people imagine that someone is forming a family, that we are trying to fight white plague, and we are not allowing the basic right to work and the basic thing that young people should have, which is that they are creditworthy, so that they can form their family and their household. What opened up a lot of controversy, that's paying for past work. According to the old law, past work has been calculated from the moment of working relationship to the moment when it is calculated. So, I, who have a job job for 30 years here in the Assembly, have been accounting for 30 years of past work and for all those who are like me on permanent work in the congregation. Under the new law, only past work is accounted for by the last employer. What is important is that it is the same thing as the congregation's majority, and it can make such a decision and form such an attitude, but it is very important to tell people that after the law has been passed, a troupe of employees in Serbia will have a lower salary of between five and 10,000. I'd ask someone who's an economist and who knows accounting to calculate how much less pay I'll have than Monday, when this law is passed, and how much less pay will you have? Why am I saying this? This is no political demagogy but, dear friends, when we return to our places where we came from as MPs to the Republic Parliament, we need our neighbours, our relatives, to explain why we voted to have a lower salary? Why did we vote that they had less compensation for their vacation? Why did we vote to have less severance? Why did we vote not pay for their shift work like it was? Because, as Professor Micunovic said, once acquired rights should be improved, not reduced. We should explain to our voters that by reducing past work payments directly to capital owners, employers, we give 40 to 50m euros annually, if we count on 800,000 people employed in the economy. There's economists, let them deny me if I'm wrong. Again, it is the right of the congregation's majority to pass this law. It's the right of the opposition to fight for some of his ideas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4130	Thank you. You've wasted your time with the MPs' group. I've extended seven minutes and seven seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4131	Can I just finish my sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4132	Here you go. It's seven minutes and 19 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4133	The New Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, will support the bill if you adopt our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4134	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4135	The simplest and most accurate thing would be to say that this is because the policies of the previous governments have led to the fact that there is simply no money in the budget, especially not for the public sector and bureaucracy that we have inherited, as well as for all that awaits us. But let's take a turn from what you said. First, it's not true that you don't pay shift work. Nighttime work is being paid 26%, as so far, and shift work, in particular said, is being paid in accordance with the collective contract. So, you and your employer will conclude a collective contract in which you will arrange how much shift work will be paid, and you know why? Because it's not the same work in the mine and it's not the same work in the store. And that's shift work, I'm sorry. It can't be paid the same way. There's a union role to play, to sit down with his employer and figure out how much it's gonna cost. We didn't foresee collective bargaining, it's a chance for collective bargaining. We have professional people here who deal exclusively with working relationships. It's a little illogical to ask for everything in the Labour Law. Then what is the role of collective bargaining and unions? Then what do we need unions for? Then why do we need employers, if we need the Labour Relations Act to predict every detail. We predicted, it exists, the employer and the union, that is, the employees will agree on it. It's part of it. Then, severance. Except for the fact that the economy simply doesn't have the money and that the smallest entrepreneur, that he had three average profits of a lot, the employers were looking for one, the unions were looking for three, it was broken somewhere in two. But, as you know, severance for retirement... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4136	Minister, your microphone's off.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4137	So retirement severances should serve to make a new pensioner have something to live on between quitting work and getting a first pension. So, as you know, there's no waiting here anymore. A permanent solution awaits, but temporary is paid immediately, so you no longer have that space. On the other hand, it was important to say abuse, but it was that employers avoided a month before you retired to fire you, just to keep you out of severance. And that's what happened. This is, among other things, a way not to. As for working for a certain time, you see, you and I both know, you're a doctor, you work at the state administration. In essence, you and I both know that it would be safe and in medicine, and here I guarantee you in the state administration how many examples do you want of people who work for 10 years at a certain time. Ten years at a time. The contract ends, it ends for two days, it ends again for decades. Here you now have a legal obligation to make it maximum. After that, either you take him in, or you fire him. You have no other way. That's actually more favourable. Let's get this straight. We have the strength when you're three years old. That's when you work on some projects, which is something that has nothing to do with this. I already explained the past work, that's how it is. I'm looking into my case. I worked at the state administration for two years or less than two years. I have over 18 years of work. All this time I've been doing in private businesses, and all kinds of things. That's what's gonna apply to me. To the vast majority of people who work in the public sector, which is 740,000 people, they will not, because they are by the rule of one employer and there will be no major effects for them. As I have already explained, and that is a fact, whether I admit it or not, in the private employer you, as a rule, have an agreed compensation that has nothing to do with past work and no one shows it through past work, but you already have an agreed compensation with your employer. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4138	I thank the minister. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: Replica. I suppose MP Bradic is looking for a replica, but he has no basis. Article 104, read nothing, no offensive expressions. The minister just explained. You have no right to a replica. Item 3 on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly. You have no right to a replica. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4139	Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are today ahead of us the first two in a series of reform laws that the National Assembly should adopt by the end of the summer, which should completely change the economic environment in Serbia and make Serbia an attractive destination for attracting investment, i.e. that as a consequence we have an increase in employment, we have a growth in gross domestic product and in the final instance an improvement in the standard of living for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Since my colleague was talking about the Labour Act, I will focus in this brief discussion on the Law on PIO. This law falls within the order of a small number of laws that have experienced the greatest number of changes in the last 15 years and, I would say, for a reason it has been so. The functioning of the PIO system is vital to the functioning of the public finance system and that is one of the main reasons why we have been trying to find some solution that will be the final solution to the problem, and we definitely have a long number of years of problems with the functioning of the PIO system. A PIO system based on the principle of so-called "PIO" is in effect in Serbia. pay as you go the way you pay, ie so-called. Generational solidarity or intergenerational solidarity, as you will, in which those who are employed today are full of budget and thus pay pensions to people who are currently retired. The system became popular in the second half of the 20th century, and then so on. The “baby boom” that occurred after World War II when in that period, therefore in the second half of the 20th century, there was a large number of young people, mainly because of the “baby boom”, and there was a relatively small number of those who met the conditions for retirement, or were pensioners, whether because the lifetime of people at that time was much shorter than today or because the Second World Work brought a large number of human victims. Unfortunately, the situation has changed significantly in the last 20 years of the 20th century. First, unfortunately, because "baby boom" has passed, that is, the number of children born in the 1970s has decreased significantly, and secondly, not unfortunately, but fortunately, the citizens' lifetime has extended. The system that worked so beautifully during the first 20 years of the second half of the 20th century and which allowed many benefits to be brought to the pensioner simply became, somewhere from the 1980s or the 1990s, totally unsustainable. The EU and US countries recognised and recognised in time the need for the PIO system to be reformed and to be compared to the current situation, the one that was at the moment, which is even worse at the moment than it was then, i.e. to change the whole system and to change the way pension payments will be financed. On these problems facing the developed world, Serbia has several more very significant problems that make its situation more difficult. In the first place, I would say something that we often talk about, but sometimes we forget it, which is that Serbia has faced the last quarter of the century with one of the largest brain drains, at least in this part of the world, and some say almost worldwide. Then we lost those young people who were supposed to fill the pension payment budget, and then people, who, because they were educated people, were supposed to be the most full because they were expected to be people with above average incomes. Today, we have a situation where our youth unemployment is almost 40%, and yet these are the ones that are supposed to be filling our pension fund. We have a problem that we hope will be resolved to some extent, and if recently amended, the Tax System and Tax Administration Act is recently applied, as announced, which is that a number of non-aware employers avoid payment of contributions, which once again endangers the sustainability of our PIO system, i.e. the PIO Fund. After all, we have something probably almost unrecorded, at least in the region, which is that it has an equal number of employees and pensioners. Where private and public sector employees are taken into account. The minister talked about it, I'll relate to what he said, although I must admit that the research I found gives something different results from what you said. According to one study, in order for the PIO system, set up as it is set up with us, at the moment it can work, it takes seven people to come to the pensioners, namely the employment and pensioner relationship to be three-and-a-half to one, which is even a little more than you said. To make it clear to the citizens, among other things, why we have to change this law, I think it is worth the attention and memory of the fact that Serbia last had these parameters in 1981. So, more than 30 years ago, and already some 25 years ago, the Pension-Invalid Fund began to record losses in its business, and these losses that are cumulative, i.e. by self-cumulating, therefore, they are permanently increasing. When we look at all this data, then it's clear that the necessary reforms of the pension system were practically imperative, not something that was some kind of whim or any kind of desire of this, or any other government. No matter what I've said and what we've had, it seems to me like four or five pension reforms since 2000 on here, we haven't done much in this pension-involvement system, or let's not say that I'm politically incorrect, we haven't done enough. That is why we needed to resort to these solutions that are in front of us today, which will certainly not come to the approval of a part of the citizens. We fully understand them, but on the other hand, we have to tell them that the only argument we have to offer is not in favor of what those who would say about this, because here today is the evaluation of the Fiscal Council of Relationships for this law, in which, as the only two options we have, when it comes to reforming the pension system, one that is essentially not a reform, which is to keep this status quo, that is, we're practically not changing anything, which is going to say that we owe the country further to the border possible, after which there is some Greek scenario. Another possibility is to reduce drastic pensions to below 40% of the average salary in Serbia, which is something that would also not be acceptable for pensioners and something that I have to say unlike what we do, is not a reform measure, nor is it an essential measure, nor is it something that changes the situation permanently. So we had to resort to something that would permanently improve the situation in the pension-inhabited insurance system in Serbia. I believe that the biggest controversy is precisely causing this increase in the age limit for women, for retirement from 60 years to 63 years by 2020, or 65 years to 2032. I am quite sure that the legislator, whether it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the competent minister, cannot be happy with such a solution, but also, I would say that at this point was the only possible solution, unfortunately. Reality says that we need one and a half billion euros a year to maintain the pension-inhabitation system, which is being transferred from the budget to this Fund, that natural growth is less than zero, that relatively many pensioners are increasing from year to year, that there is still a very expressed desire for young people to leave Serbia and something that, when it comes to this very often we forget, is that unlike some of the older generations that have also left, as it is said, by the belly for bread abroad, these today's young people who have left, or those who have gone away in the last quarter of the century have gone to never come back again. It's a great loss for Serbia. We also have a rate of unemployment that is high, or perhaps even better to say too high, we have a number of pensioners who are unrealistically high because I would say the country's favourable relationship to early retirement, which has been the case in the last twenty years. So we could have been looking for other solutions. To go to the European Union in search of solutions is not good, because they have an even more restrictive policy than ours. If, for example, we wanted to look at the so-called sign of the quote -- over the board, or in our neighborhood, we'd see that all the countries of the region are, and here I'm going to give a few examples of the countries that are in our immediate environment and that were once part of Yugoslavia, they're far ahead of us when the reforms of the pension-inhabited system are. So, let's say Republika Srpska, which may not be expected is a leader in the region when it comes to reforming the pension-inhabited insurance system. For example, Republika Srpska passed the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act back in 2011, which increases the limit for women to 65 years by 2019, so unlike our country in which it will only happen in 2032. Montenegro, for example, started to increase the retirement border for both men and women in 2013, with the border increasing to 67 years for men by 2025 and for women by 2041. Croatia passed a new Pension Insurance Act last year, which increases the border to 65 years for retirement for women by 2030, but starts immediately next year with an increase in the retirement limit for men and women by 67 years. In order to understand how important this is for today and how much the EU will also insist on it, I must tell you that the European Commission has strongly criticised the Croatian government for slow implementation of pension-inhabitation reform. Last year, Macedonia also raised the border once for the retirement of women to 62 years. So, when we look at all these examples, it is obvious that this proposed solution is not only not too restrictive, especially in relation to the developed world or the countries of the region, but it has, on the contrary, even respected and protected potentially endangered categories of the population, precisely by introducing a gradual increase in the age limit for pensioners, especially from 2020 to 2032. Since I no longer have time, I can only say that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support these two draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4140	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4141	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the chairman, ministers and others, I must point out that trade unions, professional public, students, NGOs have always been for a common solution to the law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act. This right is not denied by abolishing public debates. That's why you have the right to express your views. Advocating the views of only the political coalition currently in power is not the current option that has proved years ago. We know that all the political options were such and had such a majority, and they were never completely positive. It is unnecessary to create a situation where a worker is obliged to make a profit only to the employer. The pillar of society is not just a political party, parliament, government or anyone else. The pillar of society is the very worker with the salary, satisfied and protected worker. As long as he is considered a burden to this society, society will be unstable. Let's not compare the Labour Act to the other in very advanced states of ours, unfortunately, because they first provided pay, and then they denied them certain rights. So the degree of satisfaction with them is far above the level of this which we are currently introducing here. If there is a possibility, give it to us, too, because all the promises so far have not filled the pockets of workers and have not accelerated the economy and I do not believe that this way will have prosperity in the economy. That is why my voice as the only union in this House cannot go in favour of political parties, no matter what the political party is called and where it stands. It can only be for a better working status, because I am not a political MP, but a MP. I took an oath, and I plan that everything that's written there, given that I've taken it very seriously, I plan on acting in accordance with that oath. For all the others who plan to vote for such a labour law, I only strongly recommend that they prepare an explanation for all their friends, neighbors, relatives, son, daughters that if they get fired to explain for what reason it was good and positive for them. Such a law on amendments to the Labour Act in general has been reduced in the opinion of all trade unions to achieve purely political objectives. Why am I, as the only employee representative, saying that the law is not good? Because workers are deprived of their rights because of institutional discrimination, the right to work, because of the possibility of violating personal and family rights, because workers are turning into cheap labour, because of the possibility, the wide possibility of abuse, because of the manipulation of the workplace by a bad employer, but I mention the bad employer, because everyone is given the same opportunities, I'll explain this a little more seriously, because let's say the employer allows him to quit the employees because of the behaviour that constitutes a criminal act. However, this is given to him without determining whether or not there is a criminal offence, as well as the possibility of giving a measure to an employee if the employer considers, pay attention, I stress, he considers that he has violated the labour obligation, again without any process of determining responsibility. These are flaws, this article 179 is the basis of the direction of this law whether the law is good or bad. It all essentially comes down to this one member who's troubled, precisely because of what I've just explained. I'll explain more closely in the context of the amendment everything else. I would only like someone to answer my question, and there are ministry gentlemen – in which section of the Labour Act exactly allow for new jobs and new jobs? I didn't find that part, otherwise it only enables employers to quit, not new employment. It's very important that the public sees today who's even trying to protect acquired rights and who's reducing them. Not to be critical of everything proposed in this law. In this law of course there are good things, and we discussed it on the board yesterday, of course, the colleague mentioned, the profits are very nice and normal. However, I would fully agree that the state should break the whole situation, because I think that since the state is all of us, so not only the Government, not just the Parliament, I think we should go to a referendum and then we'll know who has a majority on this issue. I'll look back briefly, just through one sentence and the Law on PIO and just ask one question. How does this PIO Act fit the promise of previous governments in the first place, and how does it even enable new employment if the working age extends to all employees? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4142	The word is Mirjana Dragaš. Here you go. I'm sorry, Mr. Vulin has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4143	You know how, if you're selected on the DS list, then you should first meet those 358,000 people who were fired under this law, and ask them how they were fired under this law and why it was so good to vote such a law by which they were fired. This law will not fire anyone, as this law will not hire anyone. This law serves to enable the economy to function, and not just this law. Bringing only changes to one law, however important it is, is simply not enough. You need the law on bankruptcy, the law on privatisation, the law on social policy, it's all laws that make a total picture, and that's how it's employed, so something's essentially changing. You know, as we could hear here, we are in our working legislation at 93rd place in the world. If this will move us a step forward, it is more than justifiable and it will help someone to get a job, because then they will come to a country where labour legislation is not in 93th place, so they will feel it is worth coming to that country and it will be worth doing something in that country. Don't make something out of this law that he's not. This law regulates an important area and helps make the overall picture possible, enables space for investment, enables you to be relieved of what you are doing. Come out with that attitude, complete demagogy - because of this law you will be fired, no one will fire you for this law. As you said yourself, you say, a bad employer. Is there a law against a bad employer, is there a law that will make a bad employer good, is there a law that will make a bad worker good? No, there's no law like that, you can't do that. As you well know, then don't make public expectations where they're not really there and that they're not going to be. This law aims, and that is a general assessment, even of the most critical, that it is better than the previous law. Yeah, it's better than the previous law. If that's all it was, it was worth it for, but it's certainly not just that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4144	Here you go. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, a replicator, mentioned party.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4145	Minister Vulin, the DS did not vote for the law that was passed in 2005. Then Vojislav Kostunica was in power, we were in opposition. Even Boris Tadic wouldn't sign the law. The second thing, you keep repeating the thesis, from the top of your party down or not your party, but your coalition, that DS is guilty of firing 158,000 people. That's what you link to the Labour Act. There is no causal link between firing people from the private sector at the time of the economic crisis and the labour law, as you have stated, nor do you know how to explain it, nor are you even aware of what you say when you say it. She's guilty of a lot of things, which is the price of the election, but you and your party and those with whom you are now in the coalition are also guilty. Like if I said you were guilty of 100,000 deaths in the former Yugoslavia or 150,000 expelled, etc. That's not correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4146	Ambassador, you've exceeded your full replica. We're in the middle of something. In fact, you're using time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4147	I'm trying to say that when you use such information and then you expect the DS to keep quiet about that untruth, about that structure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4148	No one really expects that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4149	Of course, then let me say just how disgusting this structure is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4150	I don't know what disgusting means.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4151	I know, and Minister Vulin knows very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4152	Here, use a little more of your time, but a replica of what's said. Replica means an answer to what the minister said.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4153	You can't talk about the political party's responsibility in the context that you said, without expecting your former party to JUL or your current Socialist Movement not to bring someone into context with the horrors you've carried out over this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4154	You're out of time. Thank you. The word has first Minister Alexander Vulin, has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4155	This is naturally expected, when you have nothing to say about the law you will try to insult, to do things that are not like this high house. But, well, we can do that, too, just don't worry, we won't insult you, we'll be very specific. If you're looking for a link between the fireds and the party that did then the government and it was crucial in power just needs to, here's to take a little example. Vojvodina Development Bank - 400m euros in losses, in 100% control of DS, from founding capital to management, all, 400m euros in kidnapping from this nation. The withdrawal of money, budget money. The 400m euros are something that we are now thinking about how to save, how to get that money back, to think about how to make that money a part of the economy. Let's not go any further, 400 million euros. So, the Vojvodine Development Bank equals Bojan Pajtic and you have nothing to think about. I'm sorry, it's a causal relationship, nothing else. If those 400m euros had been spent in the economy instead of spending them on something that the police would eventually have to prove, which has nothing to do with the economy already has nothing to do with classical crime alone, surely these hundreds of thousands of people would not be out of work. That's the connection, if you don't understand the connection.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4156	Thank you. People's MP, if you could explain to me on what basis do you want the replica? Answer, answer. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: You ask me to explain to you whether I can get a replica or not? ) You do not have to explain, under Article 104. Rules of Procedure of a causal-consequential relationship, you appeared as a replica, i.e. in the form of a replica. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Tell me, can I have a replica or can I not? I don't understand when you're throwing me out of my place, you have to come in and explain it to me. Here, you have two minutes to replicate. Explain if there was anything offensive to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4157	Madam President, I've signed up for the third time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4158	You have two minutes and please don't waste on me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4159	It is not convenient when things are brought in, I repeat, several times in the context of accusing a political organisation of some serious crime. In that situation, either arrest the man at the head of that organization immediately or don't bring those things up. It's very unfortunate for me to list to you now the public enterprises run by your coalition and the losses you've managed to record in the last two years, so to conclude that Alexander Vukic or SNS is responsible. It's equally inappropriate and I'd say even without the sight of what you've just done. But I'm used to it and believe that in this congregation where you're not often, I'm constantly hearing things like that. However, you have nothing to support in practice, in a legal sense, in a judicial sense, and then you attack a political organisation that is very small in relation to your result, but it bothers you and you can't bear criticism. I ask you nicely – imagine me saying that you are now personally responsible because you were in that party even though you came out of it at the end, that you are personally responsible for all the horror that has been delivered to this people, hundreds of billions of euros in damage. I ask you, as far as you go, it's not true that we have nothing to say about the law or who insults you. Who insults you? You insult us by saying we're thieves. You insult us by destroying this country. You personally insult us by running the unions. That's incorrect, Minister Vulin. That's incorrect. Then I look at you and I say you have the nerve to say that to all the people in the O.R. It's really not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4160	Please, MP, you've spent two minutes. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4161	I'm sorry, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4162	I'm sorry, so it's the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4163	It is a replica because it is the mention of President Vukic and the party. I don't understand why someone's breaking up, 354,000 people are out of work from 2005 to 2013 in Serbia and period. From 2005 to 2013, the DS created the fate of this country. You can't say now, nobody has the right to say – you know, it's someone else's law, we didn't vote for that law. Why didn't you change it? Why didn't you respond to that law? You've seen he's bad, you've seen people lose their jobs. What was the reaction? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You can't say that the global economic crisis is responsible for everything, and in the face of this global economic crisis, you've come down with no idea. In the global economic crisis, you reacted to a fall in economic activity by increasing pensions by 72% and by increasing salaries in public enterprises by 68%. In this way you burned seven billion euros that are now coming back, which are now being serviced, which we are now trying very hard to get and reprogram these loans under more favourable conditions. Where's the responsibility? It's a crisis. It's someone else's responsibility. Only you who have had all the leverage in this country, who have used these levers for personal gain, for destroying the economy, for unmistakable cost increases, are you alone not responsible. What democracy is and what kind of parliament it is not to say – you are responsible. It was nice to drive in armored cars, it was nice to use the benefits of power, and now we're not responsible, it can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4164	Thank you. Borislav Stefanovic, replica of Zoran Babic, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4165	Thank you, Madam President. Please don't talk about blind cars, the people see what you're doing, but I wouldn't go into it right now, an uninterrupted story, it bothers me, really, who did what. You know, that already in Serbia they call you - Mr. Previously on Babic. You know, since that kind of shows the constriction of your argument, because you're two years old and something more and absolutely nothing to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4166	Ambassador, this is already an insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4167	Why? The constraint of argument?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4168	You'll be analyzed when I give you a stenogram. Please, but I'm asking you to avoid any insults. You'll see when you get a stenogram that you've overstepped the practice of our address.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4169	Excuse me. This is the first time I've heard of it, but thank you for warning me. So, the fact is that our government has increased salaries and pensions, is that it is now respected to us as a great sin, but it is also the fact that at a time of this economic crisis we are not getting out of, and just look at how many people are out of work in the surrounding countries in Croatia, Slovenia, BiH, Romania, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia. Look how many people are out of work. That's why there are elections and that's why elections are lost. I ask you, when you think you're doing something, not just announcing and talking about what the evil "yellows" were doing. You've been in power for two years, I keep telling you again. People, talk about what you're doing, and if we're sinful, arrest, burn, forbid, close, do whatever you want. You won't scare me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4170	That's out of the question, MP, I'm not gonna let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4171	I insist, please, give us a date from when you accept the opposition's words in terms of criticism. Give us the date since you gentlemen are responsible. Let it be, for example. September 1st, and I'll be quiet by then, just to hear when you're going to do something.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4172	You used two minutes. I thank the MP, we are just discussing the Law on Labour proposed by the Government and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic, and that closes the circle of replicas. Enough with the replicas. Here you go, we're done with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4173	Thank you, Madam President, for doing your job in a safe and responsible manner, concentrated. Because you warn when it comes out of the business frameworks, but I like these insults. You know, when there's no answer to everything they've ruined, devastated, destroyed, the only thing I can do is call you ugly names. It is true that the SNS has been in power for two years. We're proud of those two years. I'll list just a few things you haven't been able to do in 12 years, and we wouldn't have made it in 24 years if you were still in power. I am thinking primarily of the conclusion and bold decision to conclude the Brussels Agreement, to apply the same Brussels Agreement; a better international picture of Serbia in the world. Serbia and Belgrade have been accepted by partners in both Brussels and Washington and Moscow. Getting a date for starting negotiations. Fighting crime and corruption. I see this is your most painful subject. What did you do, and you had 12 years to do? What did you do besides fabricate explanations? It is no longer the world's economic crisis, it is now Croatia, Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, which is now the fault of some other countries. Now there's an excuse for losing jobs there, too. Yes, they were lost, but there were responsible governments who had the answer to that, which they had the answer to with the state's savings, and not with the blatant waste of money and the further borrowing of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4174	The word has a colleague Mirjana Dragas, she has been registered for a long time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4175	Dear Parliament Speakers, honourable ministers, gentlemen, when we talk today about amending the Labour Act, I would briefly start with the picture where Serbia is today. The number of employees – 1,715,164, of which around 900,000 works in the public sector and about 700,000 in the private employer. The number of unemployed – 792.888, say, never higher unemployment in Serbia, which almost leaves for one third of young people. Number of pensioners – 1.700,000. When it is added that we are in charge of over 60% to 70% of GDP and that the budget deficit by some indicators is minus 2.5 billion euros, I simply have to call on all of us, i.e. by addressing the general public to say that life is at stake here, it is about Serbia's sustainability. If I were to add a big problem of unemployment to the big problem of demographics, I would say that in one case and another, there is a huge deficit and that in front of all of us, no matter what party we belong to, whether we belong to employers or unions, there is one big challenge in front of us, to respond to these conditions so that Serbia is sustainable, to be a developmental, perspective and good place to live, especially a good place for young people's lives. In such conditions, when everything changes in Serbia, when fewer and fewer companies are working, we are considering and adopting new amendments to the Labour Law. It's a system law that concerns everyone and regulates a very complex area. This law has changed since 2000 several times. It has been mentioned so far here in the debate in 2001, 2005, 2009 and 2013. These today are, however, very significant changes affecting both the employer and the employee. It hasn't been in the last few years that with a reform course like this, it's going to change the law, and our conditions are getting harder today. Today's changes to the laws we're talking about need to enable, just to make it easier for employment, especially for young people, but also for those older ones who need just a few years to retire. As a state, we have stepped into the major changes that require of us, first of all, these economic conditions in which we are today. Then, it is a European legal framework that we need to adapt our overall economic and social and political system. This has been accepted and signed by many conventions, international labour organisations, for which we have all voted, which when we discuss individually are absolutely unquestionable, but today when they need to be implemented and implemented directly through the law, it seems to be a little harder to do so. We can talk today when it comes to the overall structure of employees of several groups. They are the ones who are employed in the public sector and are under one special hat where there are regular salaries, protection, one public sector that is arranged. On the other hand, there are a number of employees working in the private sector and in the last ten years, disobeying the law and not responding adequately to the law-respecting state, it has happened that the solutions to the Law on the work of the private sector and the private employer are not respected. These workers work, but basic labour rights are not affected by the state, the employer is irresponsible, and the worker is multiplely endangered. Finally, the third category is those who are unemployed. Who protects their rights? Whether unions are as they are today, and in what way union rights, or the overall human rights of the unemployed, and whether I am asking myself a question now, but also to you, whether the unemployed should form their own union, in order to have someone organized to speak for them. So, by changing the laws we are discussing today, the economy needs to be free of certain commitments, some financial obligations, unnecessary administration, which should allow significant vitality. Big changes, like I said, happen for all the participants in this process. I will, for example, only mention those that seemed significant to me. Changes for the employer, must give a contract of work, in writing, that contract of work must stand at the place of work, must pay off earnings and contribute regularly, must account for earnings and issue, a paper we call an executive document. There is no work on black, there has been introduced and greater rights and competencies have been given to labour inspection, and there has been an introduction of demarcation, charredness, criminal policy. I will simply point out that about 40 criminal measures of different graduations or their degree are intended for employers, and over 20 measures, criminal ones, are intended for non-respect of work by workers. When it comes to employees themselves, there is a contract for work in written form that defines his place of work, his working hours, his breaks, the possibility of overtime and all others, work during the holidays, etc. It defines his profits. Also, this worker is, as prescribed, sorry, I am now using a word that is exceeded and that is not mentioned anywhere in this law, which is a worker, there is no more, but employees. So, employees, it is envisaged that there are and are clearly defined all those opportunities and conditions in which, when he does not respect his work obligation, he is given harsh penalties. There are about 16 to 20 of them, if I counted them well, by noting that I am only now talking about those where a worker, as a consequence of disrespecting his work responsibilities, can be fired from his work. The cancellation of work and noose around the neck, a very radical measure that is necessary, but there is. I'm just going to do a parallel to say that for those forms where the employer does not respect his obligations under the law, only those criminal measures that are infringing character have been imposed. Is it adequately measured? These new measures envisioned by the new law have introduced various forms of flexible employment, remote work, work at home and their conditions are then clearly defined. In all the beauty, what changes and gives certain dynamics to working relationships is that there are various forms, forms and opportunities for young people to get a easier and simpler job. It's true that once he's hired, it doesn't provide him with work for a lifetime, but you don't have any knowledge of the entire working life today. We have to learn our whole lives, to gain new knowledge, to adapt to changes, because at the time of information, there are dynamic changes in life, to require adequate answers from all of us. The solutions that have been given contribute to the expansion of the capital market, labour force, the arrival of new investments under conditions of course and some other reform laws and possibly change, therefore, above all, to reduce administration, to make it easier to obtain permits, etc., which only then brings or opens up new employment opportunities together. A new possibility has been opened that is called -- a readiness to work with a certain financial compensation. In this law what I think is good is that clearly defined minimum profit and what is done, where it is said to be a minimum labour price, time spent on labour, taxes and contributions, of course with the possibility of increased earnings on certain elements. Also, a minimum labour price consisting of the existential and social needs of the family and the employee themselves has been defined, as we would be told by the consumer basket, from the employment rate movement, from the GDP growth rate, from consumer prices, from labour productivity, from the trend of average earnings. So, one complex, and so on purpose here, and I quote, the complex of elements that make up a defined minimum labour price, which, by my assessment, means that the government has come responsibly to assess and the possibilities for this labour price to be naturally adopted in the context of social dialogue or subsequently to do so by the government itself. The elements that will rise and change from this time to the better, will also change that minimum labour price. What I might mention in accordance with the electronic systems is the work book we've been used to for so many years. The documentation is conducted and stored by electronic means. The central register shall be established. I think these are very important shifts in this system that provide speed and efficiency. Unions. I personally consider unions to be a very important and responsible segment within the framework of the regulation of these total relationships. But at this point, they also have, like all of us, one big task, which is to find themselves in a new focus with the obligation to react to all the changes that have to happen in the work process and to modernize themselves and to transform themselves and to exhibit themselves, i.e. represent the interests of all participants in the work process, and those working in the public sector, and of the private employer and those unemployed, creating the possibility that this number of unemployed is essentially less in Serbia. So, unions absolutely have to establish their own representativeness. When it comes to all the changes this law carries with it, I would stress here the importance of inspecting work that gets more authority, greater and better organisation and greater jurisdiction. It could be better, faster, and more organized in the next period. When it comes to criminal measures, more degrees and categories exist. As I said, I may, in line with what I have previously mentioned when it comes to the degree of responsibility for the employer, because there are only penalties provided for, and since we have so far been represented by a lack of respect for the law and in relation to and behaviour towards the state, because they are not respected and paid contributions and taxes but on the other hand, which is even worse, the work itself is not paid, and the work is goods. Work is owned by an employee who works with an employer and cannot, as it cannot be left the store without paying the goods, so I don't think someone's work can be taken that creates new capital or new value without paying him. So perhaps as a warning measure or a more cautious measure, as I was saying yesterday on the Labour Committee, a higher level of responsibility could be foreseen. Today, a fellow MP mentioned even a criminal responsibility. Work has to be paid. The work must be respected and such sustainability is impossible to continue to exist. So, if I were to talk about this any further, I'd say that we don't have these conditions that are so problematic, because all these conditions exist in the West. There are precisely Western European democracies and states where a huge number of our people come out as soon as possible looking for a place and a possibility to work in Europe. If we bring such conditions here, it's important what our labour price is, and at that cost of work, we cover all other needs. I'm going to cut my discussion short because simply, I need to say one more thing about the amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. In Article 60, it is proposed that a woman be included in a special internship by half a year when she has one, two or three children. Given the demographic situation, I suggest that each child be one year at a time. I think that this measure is not excessive and difficult given the problems we have, because all we are doing is in vain from the point of view of some future and sustainability of Serbia's population. Also, when it comes to equating work experience for men and women, I have a simple message – I agree with that measure in the new conditions in which production work is not difficult, I think it is sustainable. The state has its reasons to develop social institutions to help the family, that there is equal availability of jobs for both men and women, that profit is equal for the same job, the same qualification, of course for men and women. A special message to girls, which is a matter of their present and future time – education, education above all else. After all, I, from my express, come on, the worshiped, our first Serbian Minister of Education, Dosite Obradovic, will say a quote - woe to that people whose mothers, sisters and wives live in the dark. So, if we look at it that way, in the end, I still have two sentences for the end, equal availability possible in all professional affairs, in the running affairs, in the affairs of political life and in parliament, and that perhaps in future times, and there is no need for a clause on the existence of 30% of women in parliament, there can be 50% versus 50%, or just as much representation in the government or elsewhere. In any case, when it comes to amending these laws, I must stress, of course, that the Socialist Party's parliamentary group will vote in favour, not only of these but also of all other reform laws that provide Serbia with the way and development of progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4176	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4177	Thank you. The direct cause of the idea of amendments to the 2005 Labour Act was the decision in 2012 that something must be done with 57,000 workers who have been from the company since 2008 to restructure everyone with salaries and contributions to the RS budget without, of course, making any other profit. The problem with the existing law was that they needed to pay high severance fees and that it had practically become blocked any process for companies that, under the law, were not working but being paid out of their budgets, could not be liquidated, could not be bankrupted. The support of the World Bank, the support of the American Chamber, the support of USAID and that law and the accompanying laws should remove the first burden from the budget, so that 57,000 workers are no longer paid out of the budget, this is a direct occasion. What follows are additional provisions and as you can see, no one here is making criticisms and no one is dealing with populism and demagogy. Instead of understanding that this is because we have matured as a society, unfortunately, other amendments and additions to the provisions of the Labour Act have become the subject of political folklore, with a lack of public debate, with a lack of dialogue and with a very often clean lie. The provisions of the Labour Act will be easily explained by the fact that there is one Marija Marić in Vranj, who is 46 years old and 24 years of employment in the textile industry and four years is the last in the same employer. Before that, she worked in a company with different founders, had a break-up, and the Assembly paid her contributions after 2001. Marija Maric, who has a salary of 40,000 dinars next month, when this law comes into force, will have 8% less, 3200 dinars less. Her colleague, Milica Petrovic, who works in the textile industry in Zrenjanin, and is ready for retirement and will retire before the first of January 2015, will get two severances, not three severances, by way of force of this law. Therefore, the entry into force of this law produces consequences immediately and almost exclusively for workers employed in the private sector. That's the key to my criticism. The negotiating position for individual extended collective agreements in public enterprises remained strong. The workers of the state administration and the administration are almost not covered by any of these provisions. All that the provisions that will change the position of workers in payment amounts in rights are that the employer can save and that, as I read the law, only employers who have more than 1,500-2,000 employees. That's enough reason to have a serious dialogue and I'm hoping for him during the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4178	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4179	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I want to say first at the very beginning is that during today, we did have one quality and content debate and what I can do to draw some conclusion at this point, and what seems to me to be indisputable from all those suggestions, from all those proposals, and also criticisms that could be heard at the expense of the amendment and addition of the Labour Act, so one is definitely necessary to adopt amendments and additions to the Labour Act. Serbia needs a Labour Act which, among other things, is said to increase investment, will increase employment, but which will protect the basic rights of workers on the other hand. That's very important. Serbia needs a Labour Act, I would say, which will not characterise, define a worker who is used to living honestly, an honest Serbian worker as the most responsible for everything that is bad today in the system, for catastrophic robbery privatisation, and for what you, Mr. Minister, have said today, which Serbia has lost 358 thousand jobs. So Serbia needs the Labour Act, and I think we all agree on that. Of course, it is important to reach what is a social consensus about what are system laws. Of course, it is important to reach a consensus when it comes to social dialogue, but, on the other hand, the government is only one of the participants in social dialogue, besides employers and despite trade unions. What I want to say and what is our opinion is that the government has shown one determination and responsibility, that the government has entered into this story with the idea of maintaining the atmosphere of the agreement, to retain the atmosphere of the talks and to reach a consensus and compromise on this extremely important and significant issue and that the government has shown both commitment and patience when it comes to other participants in the dialogue, of course, I also think of employers, I also think of trade unions. If you have the fact that you, among other things, Mr. Minister, have said that over 75% of the very important content of the bill has been agreed, and if on the other hand you have the fact that you are going up to talk to 100% of the wishes and the intensity that all 100% of the wishes are absolutely fulfilled, then you can conclude that it is impossible to come to a compromise and consensus. There is a compromise if all three of the participants in the social dialogue, and the government, and employers and trade unions take one step back and step away from what is wanted, in order to reach a compromise, in order to achieve a consensus in the general interest of citizens. Of course we respect workers. We respect those who are used to living honestly from their work in Serbia, but we also have to take care of those who do not today. So we must take care of those who are employed, but we must also take care of those who are not employed. We also need to take care of young people who have finished colleges, who have completed schools and expect employment and want a decent life, a life of their honest work. That's exactly why we're doing this today. The social environment, we'll agree completely, is very difficult. Changes and reforms are necessary, they are inevitable and no one seems to me, except for the previous government and this government in continuity has dealt with this issue enough, because it has taken care of the ratings, and it has not taken care of what is the essence, and the essence is Serbia's future. This government, like the previous government, I'd say, is running a realistic policy. So this government is dealing with difficult economic problems, going to meet these problems, trying to offer concrete solutions that are in the interest of citizens, but this government is not telling citizens what they would like to hear, not fairy tales, but what is reality. It is important to hear the opinion of each of the participants in the social dialogue. It's important to hear the union's opinion as well. It is important to reach a consensus on this important issue, but it is also important to respect the will of most Serbian citizens. The vast majority of Serbian citizens in the early parliamentary elections held this year clearly said – we want modern Serbia, we want economic and financial consolidation, we want reforms without which there is no positive shift. Neither the trade unions have a wallpaper on the absolute rights of workers, nor employers have a wallpaper on the absolute rights of production and enforcement, and yet the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the state as a third, first or second participant in social dialogue must take care of both and the other and has the highest responsibility. The government today shows it takes responsibility for Serbia's future. One of the key objectives of the government of the Republic of Serbia is economic and is financial consolidation. With this proposal, the government shows that those key economic and budgetary parameters want to hold firm in its hands and will not allow it to manage the situation, and will not allow the situation to govern the government, and thus to manage the whole of Serbia. So today the government shows one commitment and commitment to reform processes. We're taking the first important step today. We are today starting essential reforms and taking a step towards, I would say, healing the economic system and towards greater employment in Serbia. Serbia must be reformed and therefore brave and difficult and painful and economic and political moves must be taken, but such a policy has just been recognised by Serbian citizens and such a policy has been evaluated by citizens in the elections. So the citizens said we want reforms. This is the necessity, necessity and reality, and we need to continue the reform path and reform direction. Reforms in certain segments are painful, but they cannot stop, because if there is no reform process, if there are no system laws, if we don't adopt system laws, there won't be a positive shift, and that's probably the common interest of all of us. So there must be an improvement in the investment climate in Serbia. Serbia must continue an attractive investment destination, and it cannot do so without reforms and cannot do so without the adoption of a set of system laws. So when we talk about how painful the reforms are and how difficult they are in certain segments, we should always ask the question of how much it costs to postpone reforms, how much each citizen of Serbia costs. You have listed only one information – 358,000 people are jobless, or Serbia has lost 358,000 jobs. It's a catastrophic data and a catastrophic fact. We have two alternatives today, two directions. One is a reform, and the other is, unfortunately, a bankruptcy or a Greek scenario. So, when it comes to the Labour Law, I want to say that this Labour Law is certainly better than the existing legal solution. I want to remind you, we are one of the few MPs who voted against the current Labour Act. I don't mean to brag about it today. Unfortunately, what happened in the past, we today are hardly able to change and we want to, hardly be able to change what was done and done in the past, but we can influence the present and we can build the foundations of some new future and that's why we're doing this today. We learn lessons from the past, but we have to move forward. For Serbia, valuable time has been lost, there may be time for some political parties, there may be time for some organisations, but there is certainly no time for Serbia. This bill is better than the existing one. He is in the interest of workers, he is in the interest of employers. We believe that it will prevent abuses when it comes to unconscious employers, but also when it comes to unconscious workers. On the other hand, it is custom, we believe, markets and it is the custom of new employment. It's completely open, so there's no one here interested in firing. It's an interest to be employed. The right of workers, it's a legitimate right, but it's hardly going to be possible to achieve on the street, it's hardly going to define a better amendment. A quality law requires dialogue. The government has shown both will and determination both for dialogue and for compromise and consensus. What is a very important question, and I think the minister said that during today's debate, what is a violation of labour rights in this legislative proposal? What, in particular, makes it impossible for the employer to attract and start production? What I want to say at the very end, between what is reality, a realistic law, between what can be defined as a list of good wishes, as a party that has first and foremost responsibility to citizens, we accept realistic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4180	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4181	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today we have a very important proposal to amend and supplement the law, which preceded, if you remember, last week a set of laws that were defined in the prime minister's exposé as four pillars of reform. This was the beginning of essential reforms which today, with this law on amendments to the Labour Act and the Law on PIO, we practically lead to solutions that Serbia needs to put in a position to be competitive, market-oriented and socially secure and ultimately responsible. What's important to say is that this moment of passing these legal solutions was supposed to be many, many years ago. But what's more important is that we often close our eyes to indicators that push us to certain legal solutions. Indicators relating to the period from 2007 to 2013 say that 72% of pension increases occurred and that is what is said several times in today's discussion. But what you have to say is that 54% of the budget is actually pensions and salaries. It is a very high percentage, i.e. 61% of the total revenues that Serbia practically pours into its budget. If you add certain credit obligations to that, then you realize that as if you were projecting your home budget, this budget does not correspond at all to the economy and to the citizens of Serbia and is not able to provide and be sustainable. As such, we as a state cannot deal with any economic activity. It is normal, then, that we are in a situation where private sector businessmen do not want to hire people, have no desire to have certain business activities and investors, especially those relating to co-operation with foreign countries, do not want to invest in such a country, or in such business activities. That's what happened. First, we had a global economic crisis in 2007, and in 2008, a serious group of individuals, who were extremely irresponsible in certain political places, made a decision to project a budget that would be 20% higher than the previous one, and hence economic activity, due to the economic crisis, were 20% less. What does that mean? This means that the budget projection for the whole 40% is missed. At that point, it was quite natural that there were major layoffs, but from 2001 when the first Labour Act, which was the basis for a certain type of road to Europe, which at that time Serbia was on its way, and until 2010 to 2012, had experienced 165 small and medium-sized enterprises shutting down, to keep about 200,000 people out of work, so I'm talking about the private sector, the state became the biggest employer. Today, it's modern to have a job in state authorities. No one wants to work in the private sector. We have come to the conclusion that the average salary in euro is 530 euros in state institutions and 400 euros in private. I can tell you from personal experience that in many of these discussions, since I spent half my working life in the state and half of the private sector, and for the last seven years in private, and today I am in the private sector with the employer, I simply have no problem with working contracts. Private entrepreneurs and, after all, companies don't have organized unions. Why? Because you have an employment contract, which accurately defines the obligations of employers and employees. If you have any problems, you're going to negotiate with the employer. And so far you've had layoffs without any definition of procedure. So far, the courts have made certain solutions and objects that were in the drawers, which had never been brought to life, and never had the workers charged, and were unjustly fired. Let's not talk about the part where it was a matter of privatizing certain factories, when there was a very large number of people out of work. They've never experienced justice or justice. By making changes and supplementing the Labour Act, you are in a position to come into a situation that, on the basis of precisely defined and prescribed standards, you come to have the opportunity as an employee to collect everything where you are damaged, but by doing so, the employer has defined your obligations under which you are obliged to work. Why did this law in the first place cause certain different opinions? I think it's a minority union, because if you take the whole number of unions that have supported these amendments to the law, you'll see that there are fewer unions that are called representative, with more employees essentially opposed and that they mainly co-operate with trade unions represented in front of state-owned enterprises and state-owned companies. When you compare the private sector and the state sector, you will see that, essentially, those who receive about 50% more wages than people in the private sector are the most resilient. What is more important is to say that these amendments and additions to the Labour Act have been supported by the Fiscal Council, which often the opposition likes to be called on, but he himself says that this law should have been passed much earlier. They supported many international financial institutions, but what is important, the International Labour Organisation. It is one of the organisations that is relevant when it comes to business legislation. What do we get by this law? We've explained that we're getting a better market economy, that we're getting around the possibility of opening up a larger number of investments, and by doing so, a larger number of jobs. Finally, what this law defined, which is very important and should be highly commended, is that the representativeness of the union is being examined over a certain period of time. Why is representativeness important? If we all as politicians have certain periods when we go to elections, every four years or so, maybe every two, if each director goes to a certain kind of competition every four years, every two, or every year, then it is quite logical that union representatives also go to their own members to determine and confirm their representativeness in front of the state they want to negotiate with. Otherwise, in the modern economy, in developed European countries, trade unions and employers negotiate alone. There's no state as a mediator. The state is here to design a specific strategic framework and business policy, but in business legislation employers and employees, that is, trade unions and employers themselves. In these negotiations, they simply come up with certain common solutions, which the state must accept. What's very interesting in public these last few days, which is that it's precisely those who represent union leaders of these largest unions that have shown that, after all, the highest incomes are from the state. Why? We've learned from the media what the union's receiving is, although many presidents... For example, Mr. Orbovic is angry that he is even asked by a journalist how much monthly income it is, because it is a shame. I really don't have a problem with that, but we have a problem with that other part of the budget, which is actually a membership of the board of directors of the PIO Fund, which, of course, goes from all Serbian citizens and the part relating to the commission of the Social Policy Committee of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and European integration. Therefore, the part comes from the Republic of Serbia's budget and has a responsibility practically to the government, including directly to parliament. The second part is very interesting, it is related to the amendment and addition of the Law on PIO, which is that Mr Orbovic was also the chairman of the Board of Directors of the PIO Fund. This means that he has literally managed this country's social policy for the last four years. In this way, all those who attack the social policy of the PIO Fund should address the unions because the trade unions managed state property. So we come up with certain questions that we also ask the Minister that, after all, inform the public in any way and how has the property been managed so far? How many receipts were, not only Mr. Orbovic, but there is also the largest union of Mr. Cank, how many were these receipts? Based on these receipts, we can conclude and draw certain conclusions on who we represent. Are we representing the part relating to the social, or to the part of the pensioner, or are we representing the employees he presides over? It's something that we have to, in some ways, open up completely as a question today, because it's not just Mr. Orbovic here. We have over 500 unions in Serbia and today-to-morrow, eventually it will come to the conclusion that employees will want to know who runs the organisations that are citizens' associations and should represent the issue of workers. When we talk about the law, which took place in terms of pension insurance, we can see that from 2015 on every six months, we will have an increase in that age limit that you will be able to retire, if you have full years of employment, but you don't have to have years to live. After all, you can retire 65 years ago, but you'll have some penalty points with which it's just not worth it to be retired. That's what's very important to say. Today, Serbia has 1.7 million pensioners with its seven million citizens. With so many pensioners and an economy that is in this situation and when we have an increase in wages in the public sector, which is much higher, which from 6,700 to 26,000 dinars, and with farmers from 2,600 dinars to 10,000 dinars, then you can see that the current pension insurance system was completely unsustainable. Why is it good that we make these changes? Because then we are going to meet the European values with which we open up many other investment opportunities, which are the possibility of raising the percentage of participation for supplementary insurance, which anyone who has a particular salary will want to supplement so as not to have a small pension, for example, which would have been designed about 15,000 in the current situation, but we want to pay for this supplementary insurance or we will increase through certain life insurance policies, because Serbia is not at the European level that requires Europe. Now we're between four and five percent of that extra insurance. Some percentage in the EU is between 30% and 40% and we are far from it. What are we getting here? We're getting the opportunity to form investment funds. With the help of investment funds, you can do a lot of things, not only in that part of pension insurance, but also in the investments that go through health insurance. As you can see, it's all connected courts. So, these amendments and additions to the Labour Act and the Law on PIO are one reform path in which Serbia is going and nothing can change anymore. Serbia is going to reform. In these reforms, as our predecessors would say, we change many things and put them in certain forms, and for these forms the citizens of Serbia have declared that European forms are, that certain European standards are. If we compare what was in 2001, if you do a comparative analysis, and I asked certain lawyers to do one analysis of the 2001 Labour Act and this law now, then you will see that the 2001 law was much more rigid by certain members. As you can see, in three years' time, with certain interruptions, the employee could be held to a certain degree, and the proposal of our law was to be two years. What should be commended is that these exceptions have been introduced in this legal solution, which is that you can in certain cases, when it comes to projects, when you are working with foreign citizens or on a project, replace five years for a certain period of time, and especially those people who achieve certain conditions for retirement. It is important to say that in the case of vacations, the proposals made by these amendments and additions to the laws have been directly applied by the International Labour Organisation conventions and therefore this law shows that it has international support. What has not been in the 2001 law so far is that there can be compensation for untapped vacations and only in cases of termination of employment. That wasn't in the 2001 proposal. As you can see, the 2001 law was much more rigid in certain members because it wanted to show, at that point, that Serbia was unequivocally directed towards the European path. What is important to say is that the profit, which has so far been left to the employer's mercy and mercy, has now in some way provided the employee with the opportunity to collect. That's what the courts have been doing so far. As I was saying, these items were kept in a drawer and, after all, they were never employed after 15, 20 years, because of their obscenity to charge. This is no longer the case. No employee will ever tell you that this law is bad and that the employees are in a worse position than they were. Only one who is malicious, who has simply not read, who is hypocritical, can say such a thing to you. Finally, as far as the law is concerned, in the contract annex, when it comes to cases that bring part where the employer can simply offer a certain redistribution of another post or wants to quit, they are parts of the laws that are very subtle, when negotiations and conflicts occur between the employee and the employer themselves. These are usually the hardest moments in this business legislation, but also in life. There is then a comparison between the 2001 Law and today. You can see that there was an opportunity in the 2001 Law to conclude an employee's labour contract, but that doesn't mean that he has to and does not mean that court disputes have to be settled. Now we have a case that simply you have to conclude a certain contract, but before that you have to offer, according to your professional preparation, an adequate second job. It just shows a great responsibility for the Serbian government to simply provide all employees who are now on the labour market for the future. What is still to be said, as a summary of this whole proposal, is that it is more conveniently regulated and precise in this process, that changes in working conditions, cancellation of deadlines and everything else is more favourable than in the 2001 Labour Act. In voting day, the SNS will fully support this law. Because, together with the laws on privatisation, bankruptcy, planning and construction, we will practically start a market that has been sleeping so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4182	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4183	I don't have that information. Of course, we can get them, because it's a public matter as much as anyone on the budget and who's on what board of directors as much as they get, but I'd just draw attention to the fact that we're just this bill of amendments and additions to the PIO Act changed the governance structure of the PIO. You had a board of directors who had 21 members and a board of supervisors who had seven members. I don't need to tell you that, of course, everyone was paid for it. Of which, the structure was this: seven members of the board of directors were given representatives of unions, one association of farmers and one representative of employers. The other seven were given by five employers plus two from the government and the third seven were representatives of the pensioners' association. The state of Serbia touches a pension fund with 45% each month, with an absolute minority in the governance structure, or in the board of directors. Now it's changed. We only have the board of directors, of course, which makes up a total of seven members. This means - four representatives of the state, one representative of the union, one representative of the employers and one representative of the pensioners. And that's it. The state takes responsibility for its pension fund, which is, after all, the biggest part and financed. I think that's a good thing, and I think we should say hello.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4184	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4185	Thank you. The chairman, respected ministers, is no doubt that the SPS parliamentary group will support the law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act in the voting day. Speaking of this law, given that today's SPS has been honored that this law has fallen and that it is classified in some last bench of the opposition, I must point out that we are far from that last bench, that we passed all our exams, especially on 16 March 2014, when we showed where we are now and where those who call us that way. What is very important to point out and what is somehow avoided today, Mr. Minister, is that this law actually enters into one process of further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Serbia with EU legislation. Namely, all the more significant labour-legal institutes contained in this bill are undoubtedly in line with EU legislation, so before being accompanied by the Convention of the International Labour Organisation. In this regard, we already have confirmation, because the international convention, or the International Labour Organisation Convention, has supported precisely those working-law institutes that are now a qualitative shift and a qualitatively better solution than any existing system solutions. What the SPS parliamentary group wants to send as a clear political message to citizens is that this law is not, nor should it be a cause of fear for employees and that this law should be an encouragement to the unemployed. Because this law, as has already been said, does not undoubtedly provide for automatic law enforcement, but creates only one environment on which all conditions for more efficient employment will be created. In that sense, I will repeat and conclude, the SPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4186	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Let the People's Parliament of Katarina Rakic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4187	I would pray for silence to be heard, for it is really important that we discuss this law in a responsible way. I'll start my presentation with one paragraph. I'll read the passage of a politician what he said 13 years ago. He said – this system of laws, tax laws, the Law on privatisation, the Labour Act is a unique and coherent system, an unbreakable system. The market economy we promised Serbian citizens implies three cornerstones, private property as a dominant form of property, competition on the market and the labour market. If this law is meant by the Labour Act, privatisation and bankruptcy, we do not adopt, we will not be able to develop as a country and we will not be able to implement certain reforms. What is more important, this great politician emphasizes, is there anything more natural than for a worker to stop a working relationship if he does not carry out his work tasks, unless he has the right knowledge, if he abuses his work obligations, if he abuses his illness? No -- Bojan Pajtic said in 2001, when he was a major liberal Democrats, and we see what the development path is from liberal Democrats to Marxist and what DS lawmakers are doing today. How is it possible that today, on the side of workers, those who have left 400,000 workers without a job and who are engaged in one demagogue that they are on the side of workers, and who have drawn their hand in the pocket of all of us, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all the honest workers in this country who have made a fair living on their bread and who have lived on the hope and ideology that DS has spoken every day for the past 13 years. I want to look back on the positive things of this law. No law can be at the will of all, but this law is so balanced that it respects the rights and gives certain relief to businesses on the one hand, and on the other hand respects workers' rights. Also, I think it is important to support these amendments and amendments to the law and that this is a step towards establishing a healthy foundation, a healthy economic system in Serbia that we need, above all, to employ young people. Young people in Serbia who finally have to get a chance to work in their country, to start their families and to welcome that deserved age in one prosperity, but not the well-being in which we will suffer unhappiness, but the well-being in which we will really turn our sleeves and work for our country so that we can compare ourselves with the more successful economies that we can see in the region and in the EU. This law defines certain areas, among other things, regulates work for a certain period of time. What we are changing today is a two-year limitation, as far as working indefinitely was concerned, and we had a situation where employers had violated the law so far, and every 11 months they fired workers, and then in a month they were re-employed to avoid applying them permanently or for a certain period of time. I believe that through this one measure of state, first and foremost, employers will control and have one measure of inspection control, that after two years, first and foremost I think of the younger world and younger workers, they will have to if they meet the conditions and if they respect work ethics to get the right to work indefinitely. It's also an important measure of the power of the executive I.D. If the employer does not pay earnings for last month during the current month, any employee may at a lightning speed report it to the competent authorities and make an express judgment allowing payment as soon as possible. Today, some say that this law is favoring employers, but unless you give an electronic slice and you give a cut about your income to an employee, the employer is obliged to pay a fine of between 800,000 and two million dinars, which is proof that this law is not unilateral and is not brought without consensus. It was also brought as with consensus, with all the relevant factors in this country that make up the economic environment and who, together with us, want us to do something good for this country. There has been an extended collective agreement, more specifically the fact of a collective contract, but as you can see it has remained in these amendments and amendments to the law, only it is increasing today that we have to have 50% of the businessmen in one branch, as regards the union of employers who agree with that agreement and with that agreement, so that the government can collectively extend it to that branch to everyone else. Which means that there is still a fact of the collective agreement, only that we have taken it seriously and asked the entrepreneurs to take greater part in the process itself, to make a better decision and relieve and remove the shackles from our economy. The elimination of double bonuses, we came into a situation where someone abuses, so they say there's night and work on shifts. Then you take 26% because you work shifts, plus 26% because it's nighttime, or it's nighttime. We find it inadmissible that, we had such examples in "Collabarians", where workers were sued and 52% asked for wages because they worked at night, because the law was not so clear and I think we have made it absolutely clear to these measures what nighttime work means, and what it means to work on the first shift. The union rights, it's true that we've made decisions that are limited trade union rights, and I really had one personal experience that six months ago I was in a private company where, when I was walking with the leadership to go around the drives, to see, as a young man to get to know what a public enterprise was, as workers saw leadership, they all got in better and moved to their jobs to work, but a certain group of people sat in the corner and completely ignored that anyone was even walking the engines. To my question of who these people are, it's union leadership, which means you don't have to do anything, it doesn't matter who's going to work for you, and in most cases it's those who are members of that union or those unions who are fighting true for their rights, but who today have shown the seriousness to know what the state has to do, because they've faced reality based on a catastrophic situation that has simply come under irresponsible authority over the past 15 years. Also, the obligation to keep a contract at the place of work, Mr Babic said, is really important that if you work in one company and you lose that contract, so you have to go to Nis to get it, more specifically inspection to check whether it is in the central office, in accounting, etc., and then on the basis of that time that you are given to factory and make a contract or forge or do anything else that is not in accordance with the law where workers are not properly protected. This measure will end it, it will finally stop working on black, and that is what we need. As a young man, I really want to finally live in Serbia where a young man will be registered, not get money black on his hands, but be able to boast that he is finally working in his country fairly and responsibly and earning money for life and can plan his family. The aim of this law is certainly to improve the conditions of business, to transfer employees from black or gray zones to a legal zone where we will finally know what is the number of legal employees, and not the people working on black, then the increase in domestic and foreign investments, because these reliefs, as well as the set of those laws that we adopted in the previous two months, and which we will adopt in the next month, gives us the right to finally welcome the day that we can expect in Serbia investments that they will hire, so I am truly standing by younger people because they need the job most, but also those people who have a few years left to retire. I am fully convinced and convinced that our older citizens will also be sacrificed for who knows which way because of us young people in Serbia who want only one thing, which is the right to work, the right to work, the right to earn money and the right to family. I therefore believe that the SNS will support this law, that other MPs will also support this law and that we will finally implement reforms in Serbia that we have been delaying for 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4188	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Katarina Rakic, and let the MP Vladimir Djukanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4189	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Ministers of Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. We are facing today's proposal to amend and supplement the Labour Act, which represents only one step forward towards reforms in Serbia, only one step forward towards the EU path. These steps are really not easy at all, but aware of what we are doing for the future of Serbia's citizens we will certainly not give up on this trip. With this bill we certainly want to protect workers first and foremost, and we want to protect employers, all those who want to hire Serbia. For decades, and more than that, there was no courage, and there was no will to pass such a law. We all thought only of political points, we all thought only of our chairs, they didn't mean workers or the economy of Serbia. They also brought the state on the verge of bankruptcy and workers in Serbia at the edge of the misery. Today we have a situation that it is those who have brought the country into such a difficult situation that they invite workers into the street. I wonder today why they didn't invite them to the street the moment they were left without a job, why didn't they invite them to the street the moment their companies collapsed, why didn't they invite them to the street when they were pushing foreign investors? No, they destroyed everything and now they're calling the street workers. Do you wonder where your workers are? Only one who invites workers to the street today, only he is personally responsible for 200,000 people who have lost their jobs, 200,000 people, and only in Vojvodina. According to data I received from the NZP in Serbia, we currently have 790,000 unemployed people. In percent it looks like this – up to 30 years, young people, in this part, make 26% unemployment, over 50 years that percentage is 25%, and the highest percentage is certainly between 30 and 50 years old. This is certainly a scary piece of information. More than that, it is terrible that these data are certainly not final because not all unemployed are registered in the employment service. Serbia really needs changes, it needs to be cured, it needs to be a healthy economic situation to attract foreign investors to hire young people. All those who want to invest their money in Serbia, all those from abroad agreed and accepted this bill. What makes it clear and accurate that there is no room to read between the lines. Earlier on, it's right in that space between the lines, right in that so-called. The holes in the law gave individuals privileges, so they weren't all the same to say so. This law is exactly the opposite of that and this law clearly and precisely defines concepts such as work for a certain time, then the conditions under which an employer can fire an employee and cannot be extended from that framework, then more precisely determines the price of work. This law is exactly the opposite of that. This law clearly and precisely defines concepts, such as work for a certain period of time, and then conditions under which an employer can fire an employee and cannot expand from that framework, and then more precisely determines the price of work. This proposal for amending and supplementing the law is in line with all European Union regulations. What I will specifically look back on, and what brings as a newspaper this law, is something that will certainly be helpful in hiring people who have many years of internships, not to tell older people. So far, we have had a situation in our economy that the employer was obliged to pay the employee a past internship for all years, which seemed like this – that if the employer hired a worker who is 25 to 30 years old and works with him for, say, just a month, he is obliged to pay him all that past internship for all the years back. This certainly did not suit employers, so they avoided hiring older people, and on the other hand we had a problem with people who had so many years of internships, and on the other hand they did not exercise the right to retire, what about those people. We just forced them into a gray zone. The second thing that will be abolished by this law is something that I can freely say is a public secret in Serbia, and these are what are called blanco-signed agreements and terminations of working relations. Every worker, in fact not everyone, but most of the workers in Serbia were in the previous period, was simply forced by private employers to sign a document that allegedly agreed to break up a working relationship. Such paper was held by the employer in his drawer and could be activated at any time when it suits him. Exactly, this example and many other examples disproves what the unions claim, which is that the still applicable Labour Act gave workers safety. That this is not the way it says that between 2005 and 2012, when the Labour Act was in force, 354,000 workers were out of work. So how come this law simply created the safety of these workers? How come so many people are out of work? Of that, 380,000 in the private sector. You will agree, according to this data, something was more protected by the public sector, which is precisely because of the irresponsible policy of the previous government that the public sector used by hiring its people. In such a way, it also led Serbia's economy and the state to bankruptcy. By passing one of these laws, we will certainly avoid the bankruptcy of Serbia and certainly create a better and more orderly state from Serbia. We are aware that this law is certainly not a list of good wishes, but we are ready to take action, because we are unlike those of us responsible people. As I have already stated, this law is extremely clear and precise, but that is why I think this law is a problem for some. Last week, I attended a meeting with my colleagues, SNS MPs, with members of the Assembly's Labour Committee, organised by the union presidents. I can say for myself, and I hope my colleagues agree with that, we were really caught up with what we heard there. We expected from this conversation that we would hear clear and precise data, or answers, which do not correspond to them in this law, which is not the custom of workers, which they are specifically complaining about. Unfortunately, we have not received such answers. We got insults, we got a reason that the laws were sent by the great gods, that we were thugs, that we were sloppy, that no laws were passed on to Pendrek. Well, gentlemen of the union, I want to tell you from this place -- the Serbian Progressive Party really isn't to blame that 500,000 people were out of work in the previous period. The Serbian Progressive Party is not to blame that workers in Serbia are humiliated and forced to work on black. Gentlemen of the union, stop fooling the workers, your job is to protect their rights. But after all the conversations we've had, I wonder if you're protecting their rights, or just protecting your privileges. Unfortunately, now you've found, more specifically, an ally. You've got allies in those who've been destroying our economy for years. You've got allies, so now you can fight reforms together in Serbia, together you can fight jobs, together you can force investors from Serbia. You found that you're doing it now at this point. Now that someone finally started doing what was supposed to happen a decade ago. When he took matters into his own hands and gathered the courage to pass one of these laws. Now that the economy in Serbia is in motion, when new investors appear, when new jobs are opening up. Obviously, someone is threatened by this law, the Serbian Progressive Page is a promise and we will proudly bring it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4190	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Djukanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4191	Thank you, Your Honor. He still said in his own time that a person who is left-handed in his youth, and that after his 30 ’ s, he did not realize it was a delusion, he was actually supposed to become a conservative, the question is how capable she is of politics. I'm glad, Mr. Vulin, that you're taking it slowly, but it's not clear to me that people who were so fiercely critical of self-government in 2001, and believe me, I remember very well Mr. Arsic because you were a member of the Parliament back then, I remember that period because I was a congregation reporter, Mr. Pajtic's statements against self-government. Now it's simply unclear to me how the comrades and friends turned out to be. Here we are experiencing a nirvana of these left-wing ideas, and if someone buried the work in full, in a legal sense, that word, if someone ran the worst, that savage liberal capitalism, was just run by his present comrades and friends. I cannot accept such hypocrisy, and I must admit, as far as the amendments and additions to the Labour Act are concerned, and otherwise I will tell you, in 2001, these people passed the Law of Work that was in theirs, it seems to me, the 101st member ordered that the employer could fire you, not ask you, nor any explanation to give. You could've just been run out of the company without any reason. It didn't bother anyone at the time. It was then justified as we move towards a market economy, a market economy, and today when we have experienced the consequences of all these laws in the erosion of our economy, in the complete collapse of our economic activity and everything, it now bothers when the law is passed that you have the responsibility and employer on the one hand, and the rich and the workers on the other. In 2005, it went to another extreme. The Labour Act was passed where the employee allegedly protected himself. We really got into a situation where you could fire the same guy who didn't even do anything at the firm, but he couldn't get fired at all. On the other hand, he had fully dimmed further employment. Then we experienced a situation where 300 and a few thousand people lost their jobs, that middle-generation, that's what's worst, people who were 40 or 50 years old, who got fired in those wonderful transition circumstances that the DOS executives then introduced to us, stayed on the street and couldn't get to work because they introduced amazing provisions to say, you have to pay compensation for all the years of work. No employer, of course, would accept that. Now this law introduces the possibility that these people, too, that's what's most important, who are 40 or 50 years old, who still have the opportunity to work, that they can get back to work. They can be useful again, work in certain companies, depend on which employer is needed. That's what I think is the key to everything. This raises the economic activity of a single country. We unfortunately pass this law, I said as a result of the complete destruction of the Serbian economy. We had here and that's what's scariest for me when people who are out of work call themselves losers of transition, so unfortunately they're losers of transition, but we've had as many winners of transition that have become suddenly as I said "friends and comrades". I just have to tell you "friends and comrades" from the opposition, Edward Cardellj died a long time ago, and also self-government socialism with him. Today there are entirely some other circumstances. When we talk about unions, I, Mr. Wolin, must resent you, as I personally resent and perhaps Mr. Wolfich. I have the right as an MP for the ruling majority, I object that they have spoken to these union representatives in the first place. I would never speak to them myself. Because these representatives, self-appointed union representatives, have never fought for workers' rights in their lives. On the contrary, they enjoyed the worst possible privileges, and the workers were out of work and, of course, the families were destroyed through privatisation, through robbery privatisation, through the destruction of factories, and they were naturally rich and had bank accounts, excellent cars could fly wherever you wanted. What kind of union representatives are these? That's why I can't understand that they're inviting someone to the street today, and all these years they haven't moved their fingers to provide something for a worker, and so I have to admit, I resent you personally for talking to them. I don't think these people are any kind of employee, and I just didn't need to talk to them. But, okay, I understand the democratic capacity of both these governments and anyone who wants to respect the conversation. However, they do not have the exclusive right to pass any labour law. This is a good law as soon as they touch the gentlemen against him. I believe you've really done something useful. A few minutes ago, a question was asked to Mr Stefanovic, and I feel bad that he is not here – why does the Minister of the Interior defend the Labour Act? Well, please in time, it's great, we've experienced that we don't know how many unions, all supposedly representative, there are some people who don't come to work at all, and they're being led that the workers are M.P. and they're getting paid, that's why more is to come to the Home Secretary and explain that such things won't be possible in the I.P. anymore, it's become an unsustainable situation. There's been a lot of employment in the administration, and it's time to, of course, raise the private sector. This law is something that encourages the development of the private sector, and I am very pleased. I'm glad you can get a better job under this law than you've ever been before. It is also important to know the responsibility of workers, it is good that you can easily get fired, and there is no employer who will fire a good worker. A good worker, on the contrary, will always be stimulated and watched to be further encouraged and disturbed by doing the best he can. Therefore, these are really good amendments and additions to the law, these are real reforms and I hope so, and I must admit that I am still suspicious because it is a very difficult economic situation, but I hope that this is exactly the kind of reform that we can move forward and I believe that Serbia is going to have a better time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4192	Thank you. The word of the people is Vesna Rakonjac, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Nebojsa Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4193	Thank you. I am taking the opportunity as chairman of the Labour Committee to primarily thank the representatives of the Ministry of Labour, who worked with us yesterday to clarify the disputed so-called ". disputed some members of the law, in their concrete, unambiguous and professional answers that simply removed all the dilemmas that existed. In order not to repeat myself, because my colleagues have exhibited everything that this law does well, and it also brings well to employers and foreign and domestic investors who will improve the real sector and speed up employment. They also bring good news to those hard-working categories of people who, at a time of incorrect robbery privatisation, are out of work, and these are people in serious years, highly skilled people that every employer would want for himself and for himself. I believe that by eliminating past work in the employment of a new employer, this highly professional person will lose nothing. A good employer knows that he recognizes a good worker, a good expert, and as it is everywhere in the modern world of practice, gross profit and gross earnings contracts are negotiated, so I simply don't doubt that he will be paid adequately for his work. On the other hand, when we talk about the protection of pregnant women's rights, this law in one part of it has restored the dignity of pregnant women that they can simply, without contempt, go to their doctor for review and not fear and not make up any other reasons, just enough to report to the employer and go to the appointment. Another thing we heard, which is that we sanction this law in some way, that is to say put the employer in a privileged position in relation to the pregnant woman, which is when we say – except in the cases referred to in Article 179. And a pregnant woman like any other employee has to respect work discipline, and that this is not as simple as giving them notice, is that, before handing out a job notice, the employer is obliged to send a written notice and leave an eight-day period, so, if something that is not in line with the Labour and Work Discipline Act is repeated, then this situation comes forward. You will admit that no employer will easily, with much explanation, give a warning to pregnant women only because she is pregnant unless there has been a serious breach of duty. On the other hand, I agree in that part that a woman who is seven months pregnant will not be able to perform the tasks performed by other employees, but it is clear from the law that in no case should an employer endanger the health of a pregnant woman or breast so that she can be transferred to a easier job or be paid leave for that period. Therefore, these legal solutions, neither pregnant nor mother, nor breast-feeding, have lost anything. Another important thing, which is clearly defined, which is a stricter legal policy when it comes to criminal provisions for so-called. The gray economy, that is, for working on black. We know that some workers who work on black, especially visible only when there's some work-related injury, which is characteristic of the construction industry and of the builders. So we are aware that various manipulations are taking place in this area, and they simply pose a threat to the health and life of the employee. This legislation is clearly regulated, clearly specified provisions that the employer must be employed to have an adequate employment contract, i.e. all the papers that the law stipulates he has on the employee. He cannot make fictitious contracts, antidate them simply to the inspector for work must provide everything necessary on site and at the moment of inspection. What's very good is working for a certain time and I think it's a good thing it's 24 months away and it wouldn't be manipulation again when this provision is at stake, and it's not possible 24 months to repeat itself in the same employer's endlessness. After 24 months of temporary work, an employee may work for a specified time, but with another employer. So far, it wasn't a practice. So, they've been working for a year, they've been cutting jobs and they've been working forever for a year for a certain time, and that's exactly why they're not wanted for bank loans and they're not socially safe. As for the extension of work for a certain time at 36 months for a new employer, I think it's very good, because in those 36 months, a new employer will develop his job and make it possible for new people to be hired. It is also very good that this time limit can be extended for those who are missing up to five years of retirement time and that these people get their dignity back, not to go from unloved to unloved for six months, to a year and thus collect the necessary years for retirement. What's interesting about this law is trial work. During the trial work, the employee can also work on several related jobs, so that it can prove itself and simply convince the employer to take him into the collective. What's very good in this situation, and if he has concluded with the employer a termination contract the employee has to get an explanation why he wasn't accepted by the employer if the employer decides not to accept it. I don't see why we're afraid if they're clearly defined and specified what it's like to be in breach of duty, and I think that's how only those who don't meet their labour obligations will be sanctioned, that they'll simply be sanctioned by those who said that they can't be paid as little as they can work, that that time is long gone, and that they'll be stimulated by workers who work hard and earn for their lives. It is also good to prevent abuse of compensation for shift work. It is clearly defined that night work is within the framework of shift work and it remains. So, don't manipulate that shift work has been suspended. As the minister said, working shifts in the afternoon at the store is not the same as working shifts in the mine. It's completely two different categories, and it's just the same as when we're talking about the benefits of a job internship. Can't have the same benefit as the secretary of a mine director or a mine manager and the same benefit as the miner. You have to admit that's incorrect and unfair. I'd still look back on only one segment, and that's the segment of the PIO Act. There was a lot of controversy about it, about the extension of the years needed to exercise pension rights, and that way we will destimulate employment. I'm going to quote the Ministry's representative who explained it simply and plastically yesterday, which is – when you have one employee who needs to go to early retirement or, by some benefits, you'll get one pensioner more and the number will remain the same, provided you hire another person to do that job. So you can see that there's a discrepancy. So, I think this reform law is going to run our economy, hire young people and make what we planned, and what we planned and what we did, we're going to present to you after a hundred days of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4194	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nebojsa Petrovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Mirko Krlić. Here you go, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4195	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is very easy for some people to deal with politics because they have absolutely no responsibility for a public spoken word. And today I've had the opportunity to hear a lot of such discussions, but since I haven't had a chance to replicate, I'll only take one minute to replicate another to Stefanovic, who unfortunately isn't here. The Socialist movement is a party formed six years ago, there are leftists who were in other parties before that, but the largest number of us were not in any party before the Socialist Movement, so absolutely connecting the Socialist Movement with some past times is inappropriate and untrue. If there is a dilemma whether this law, i.e. the law on changes and additions to the Labour Act, will be reformal or not, one thing is certain – it has been written by time, the time in which both Serbia and Serbia's economy, economy, finance, were found, where all both employees and unemployed citizens of Serbia were found. He was an inevitability. Whether it's reform or not, it's not just going to depend on what text it says, but rather on our endurance to apply that law. It contains several very important institutes that I consider to be very important in terms of the Socialists. I hope that counterpart Djukanovic will not be angry, left-wing can last a lifetime and those two institutes are contained in two values that I think are very important and are for Serbia's well-being and for the benefit of Serbia's workers. First, the mention of the Institute of Executive Immigrants, it is only shown here that one of the attributes or means of forcing the realisation of the money made by the employer, but the idea was essentially a little deeper. It is the need to treat the employer in the same way everything that enters the process of work, what makes the excess value, or that profit, as we call it in capitalism. If you have to pay for the machine you want to buy, lay down a guarantee, if you have to put a guarantee for the material you spend in the manufacturing process too, it's perfectly logical that you have to lay down a guarantee, or provide any material value, any other, to which those employees you want to include in your manufacturing process, in this process of collecting excess value, or profit, you also provide. You can't take workers on the labour market without designing the necessary money for their salaries before, so the Institute of these executives is much deeper and much stronger than it has forced itself or the ability to collect that money earned by work. Another value, which I say again, has for us left-wings a little ideological sound, is that this law brings one significant novelty in the necessity of pooling union organisations. We are all aware that there are tens of thousands of different union organisations in Serbia today, which are among themselves and each other, quite uncomplicated in any more serious idea of protecting workers in Serbia. In this way, I think that in the future it will create serious and significant by numbers, union organisations that will also be authentic, will wear, to say their strength, their strength from the work itself, that is, from membership that corrects it and directs its leadership. In this sense, I expect that very soon in Serbia, new major serious union organisations will grow, which will have their full autonomy, and not such a scattered and politicised union organisations. It is very important for us because we believe that this will be a serious weight in the future, i.e. against the heavy desire to have capital to that extent, so to speak, behaves as an ossion and, I say, ignores the interest of employment. One thing that's simple and it's unnecessary to prove, which is that since 2001, since that famous February 12th on here, there really happened one, I could say so, even though it sounds rather difficult to say that term, genocide. Robbery privatisation in Serbia was a genocide of Serbia and of employment in Serbia. Those who carried it out, those who took part in it, are today transformed into protectors of those who have brought them into the situation they are in. All I can say is, God forbid those working people whose rights are protected by those who took them there. Another comment only related to the Retirement Insurance Act. That is, quite simply, my application to the Minister, if it is possible for the Government, since we have failed to propose this amendment, to consider, and that is precisely what the board of directors mentioned earlier, or to amend the law in this regard, by reducing the number of members of the Management Board. I think it would be very bad if for the next six months, such a system of management of the PIO fund remained, given that the law provides for the change to take effect only on 1 January 2015. I think we should make that addition that this member of the law, I think, is an amendment to Article 155, comes into effect immediately after being published in the Official Messenger. I have very strong arguments for that. Through my insight into the last month and a half, I've had the opportunity to get acquainted with an extremely serious Javilu, and I could say with the unserious handling of the PIO fund's assets, because most of them, not to mention almost all of the grant contracts for the use of PIO's assets were made without any compensation. So it's the rehabilitation centres, it's a business space, etc. So 90% of the cases are about giving that space, or the property of the PIO fund without any compensation. I have information that this property is later leased. So someone's making a handsome income from this country's assets, and by the way, you have a situation where we have to finance a PIO fund, or that money from the budget is spent on that purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4196	National MP Dr Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4197	President-in-Office, Article 107. Rules of Procedure. The chairman seems to me that you haven't listened very carefully...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4198	I heard. I know exactly what you're going to say, that privatisation was genocide. How should he react to the chairman at this point?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4199	So this is the situation we had in November last year. They reacted to this situation from various international organisations, including the Jewish community in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4200	Please, don't compare it to privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4201	Chairman, please get serious. The previous speaker said...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4202	Please don't tell me, I'm very serious here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4203	The previous speaker said someone in Serbia had committed genocide in recent years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4204	He said the privatisation was genocide.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4205	It means there's been genocide, and genocide by definition...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4206	Please be precise for the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4207	... The international crime of total or partial destruction of the people of a national or ethnic or racial group and that term is used with the pietate and at certain times according to this definition. You let the previous speaker say that someone did genocide and you didn't warn him, you didn't give him a warning, and you're still talking to me about what you were supposed to do. I believe the previous MP has violated the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think you broke the Rules of Procedure because you didn't warn him. We've already had a case like this in the National Assembly. I ask that the Messenger be excused, that you may warn him, or that you, in the name of the messengers of the assembly, may apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4208	I can only ask the MP if he wants to apologize for the part of the speech that he said the privatisation was genocide?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4209	Do I have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4210	There's no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you know that. Would you like to apologize?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4211	I'm staying with what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4212	He doesn't want to apologize. Do you want to vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4214	Thank you. It will be voted in the voting day that will also be decided on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which I do not think I did, and if you consider it so, fine. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4215	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, I will try to make the most of this discussion, estimating that the MPs have said much about this law in particular, but I simply must make a contribution to the better understanding of the importance of the Labour Act and that request for a causally consequent relationship that Mr. Minister has already explained well. To understand the right measure of the Labour Act, we must at least return a little to the near past, because avoiding the past and running away from the past often becomes a future that can no longer be escaped. Under the slogan of the root reforms of the social system after 2000, two then key laws, the Labour Act and the Privatisation Act were passed. I'm deliberately mentioning this causal relationship because it really exists. It's not about the text of the law, it's about their implementation. I think the economic fabric of Serbia's state is more broken down by the way these two laws were implemented than by the collapse of the SFRY, by bombing and sanctions. In fact, the Labour Act had its basic purpose in firing workers without any responsibility for their further destiny, since workers are only organized forces when they are in their factories. Then when they're on the street, they're disoriented by mass, they're prone to various kinds of manipulations and, above all, political influence, and that's why we got these unions like we have today, which are more like political parties and petty private organisations than serious associations that care about workers. In this way, a clean space was created for the sale of state and social assets. The domestic and foreign tycoons, but also the political elite, have become the owner of everything in Serbia, but not with the goal of speeding up production, but of making it cheaper and more expensive to sell. Those who implemented the Law on Labour and the Law on Privatisation in this way, I will give my previous colleagues a second term, participated in a joint criminal enterprise towards the Serbian economy. They deserve to spend one part of their lives in prison. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What does this look like? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4216	Don't get baptized. Just let me know when you get that. Don't throw it away. You're doing just as ugly a thing as what you're turning on. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: What does this look like? ) Here, honourable MPs, I invite you to shout from the bench, it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'll take a break if the order can't be held in Parliament. It's my right. I ask the MPs to pay attention to the speeches. We have censors on one side and on the other. I don't want to be a censor to anyone. As the left hand warns me, so I pray that he warns me some way and the right side. Don't censor each other and jump out for every word that's said here, please, please. I'm asking you as chairman so we don't censor each other. Woe words, we will warn them if they are directed to you or to someone who can hurt them. Please finish your speech. Please don't cause such a violent reaction to your opposition colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4217	Of course, no one was told those words, and I'm surprised, Mr Babic has repeatedly noticed how certain MPs are recognized when it comes to stealing, thieving, prison and similar words. I don't know why. Let them think about it themselves. I really didn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4218	That's why I couldn't warn you. You didn't specify who it was.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4219	I'll do it again. Those who have implemented this Labour Act and the Privatisation Act must spend one part of their lives in prison, not because something will be fixed, but that justice will at least be a little satisfied. Behind every law, there are men behind every policy, and there is man and his work. This is the part I want to talk about. I want to talk about the man and his work. I spent the past two years in the Kosovo and Metohija Office as a close associate of the minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4220	I ask the MP to speak strictly of the subject. The subject is two laws. The other MPs spoke 80% of the subject. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4221	It's only dark. Just a little patience. I can immediately say that I do not belong to the same ideological position as Minister Vulin, but I am extremely pleased that he is finally at the head of the labour ministry a man who defines his public action as a struggle for social justice. Serbia deserves it. We finally have a lefty in the right place and I see it only well. I've had the opportunity to learn about creativity, energy, consistency, and, above all, the dedication of Alexander Vulin...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4222	Ambassador, I would like to ask you about the subject of the Law on Labour and Amendments of the Law on PIO. You'll make a problem for me that I'll have to tolerate others when they talk about something else. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4223	I'm talking about the Minister and law enforcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4224	Don't talk about the minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4225	I have to. That is why I am absolutely certain that this law will not be a dead letter on paper, that it will be literally implemented and that the Ministry of Labour will surely react first if any bad consequences are carried out by the law. Following the good intentions of the Serbian government and the Labour Ministry, I call on all MPs to support these changes to the Labour Law in the day of voting, fully convinced that they are going towards a better life primarily for workers in Serbia, but also to raise the Serbian economy and the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4226	Thank you. The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4227	Thank you. Article 107. I'm grateful that you reacted in some way. However, when here for the second time in, say, the last 15 minutes repeat two terms that are very dangerous, one is genocide, and the other is an organized criminal group, and of course it is said – those who, who, who have been in power, those who have carried out, are those who, I think, although I know that no one has said the exact name and name, agree, but you will agree that this is a very dangerous thing, especially when it comes from the ranks of the majority. This opens exactly what I think we should all avoid, and it is not only difficult words, qualifications and threats, but also something that tries to present to the citizens of Serbia as a regular state of affairs, that the opposition is criminalised, organised into a criminal group and involved in crime, and those who say this may have personal knowledge from the time they associated with Minister Knezevic during privatisation in Zrenjanin, so they can confirm it. It's called a personal case projection, as Mr. Vukic says. You have to act like it's not happening, because it's not good when we get up. We could say a lot about them, but then it won't take anywhere. I think you had to warn the previous two speakers about the use of inappropriate terms, where the term genocide is offensive to the victims of genocide, and the term organized criminal group is offensive to a healthy brain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4228	Thank you. I don't think I've hurt Article 107. This declaration of dignity did not in any way hurt the National Assembly. I can't agree with you that it's defined correctly, it's not even spoken to which parties are meant, not the name or last name, so my hands were tied to respond properly. Secondly, I've received so many criticisms over one single warning I've made over the past few months, as I've been working on, from a certain MP. You know the warning draws certain material resources. The press conferences have been held daily for this reason, so I have the utmost confidence to give notice to the MPs. If you insist, then please do not criticise me and hold press conferences as the president uses business provisions. If you think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, please tell us, we'll vote on it. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: No. I thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. He's got a head start.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4229	I'm reporting after the Rules of Procedure's injury, sir. 27th and 108th. Although you are working hard to be first among the equals and to maintain order at the National Assembly, I think that some of the things that are out of reach, out of reach, are out of the power of the National Assembly, of every MP. They repeat and I will repeat until some MPs learn it. The National Assembly is not a courtroom. We're not prosecutors, we're not judges, we're not lawyers. Mr. Goran Knezevic was proved guilty in a long, exhausting and painful court procedure, although the regime at the time was politically accounted for using the country's judicial system for 13 months or 15 months. Finally, the country's judicial system said Goran Knezevic was not guilty. That is why the unpleasant scenes are when the MP again, hiding behind the immunity he has as every MP, puts again on the pillar of shame and Goran Knezevic and takes for himself the role of both prosecutors and judges and all that no MP has the right to do. Of course I'm not Goran Knezevic's lawyer and Goran Knezevic doesn't need a lawyer. He showed his innocence in court proceedings. What kind of justice did we have before the reform of this government of Serbia show such things that man was detained for political persecution and reckoning within a political group, one political party kept in custody, on God's justice for 13, 14 months.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4230	Thank you. You probably won't, honestly, I didn't notice which MP mentioned the Prince. I would react, indeed, just because I don't want any qualifications of that nature to be presented here. We're not a courtroom. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlic came forward. On what basis do you want the word? (Mirko Krlić, from the place: I was put in my mouth something I did not say.) You have no right to a replica. You didn't mention it. (Mirko Krlić, from the post: I report from the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107) Article 107 was used by someone in this circle. You need to make another provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4231	Then we can do it by Article 103. In the discussion I was talking about, I was only talking about a joint criminal enterprise, not a criminal group. That's two completely different ideas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4232	You're still abusers, you're on your way to replication. The People's MP Dragan Shormaz, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, came forward. Which member was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4233	Mr. Babic called for an article. 27th and 108th, just to remind you, and I'm referring to an article. 104 and 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4234	Articles 104. and 107 were used as well as Article 103. So 103, 104 and 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4235	Article 104 isn't. Mr. Babic picked up the article. 27th and 108th guaranteed. That's what he said when he got up, you can check the stenographic notes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4236	Let me take a look. Article 104 is a replica. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4237	Article 107. Speaker at the Assembly session...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4238	Article 107 was used.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4239	It's not. Who used it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4240	It's used, but not to argue.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4241	Who used it. Here, let me ask you, who? If you know... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4242	Ambassador, we're not in a position to communicate like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4243	I'm telling you it's not, you say it is. Okay, but I'm also unhappy that you said you didn't hear what your colleague said, and that's about your sitting down.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4244	I thank you for your objection to my holding the session, but I ask the MPs to follow closely, since the Rules of Procedure have hundreds of members, and to refer to someone who has not been used. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4245	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today there have been good discussions on this subject, and I think it is a record number of interested in saying something about this law, because over 60 and some speakers have applied to present their opinion, some advice, or perhaps some criticism. What's always acceptable to me is critics, not critics. To be honest, today what I heard here, I didn't see that there were those who were interested in being critics. I think the opposition has also been very patiently commenting on everything, and I think the real critics are out of this room, and it's those people who don't want us to make a common solution, but to bring confusion into all these good intentions that the government has had with the amendments and additions to this law. Maybe this isn't the most ideal law, it's better than the last one. It's not ideal for employees either. Maybe he's not the most ideal employer. By being better than the previous one, the JS parliamentary group will support these amendments and amendments to the law. The more transparent it is, the clearer it is, one proof that we are going into reform. It is evident that this may be the biggest step towards these reforms and EU accession. People suffer from imbalances between public and private, real sector, not only in the public sector, wages are twice as high compared to the real sector, but because people who were in the public sector actually had serious protection of some trade unions at some point, and people who worked in the real sector very often did not have trade unions behind them. It is democratic, but it may be a little devastating that there are 23 thousand organised unions in Serbia. I think that proportion bounces in relation to the region and the countries we strive towards. I was glad today that, at one point, the defence minister, the police minister, were here with us, and it's a good thing that you're still here with us, as someone who has great experience in our territory. Why do I tell you this? Today, all things have been said, and we have touched the smallest details of this law. I've personally had one thing drawn attention to, and that's a member of the 9th of this law. I'm going to give you a suggestion as to why I think maybe he should be changed. Whether at this point or in another, you'll judge. Why is your experience of our territory of Kosovo important? Because you know we signed the Brussels Agreement between Belgrade and Pristina last year. At that point, we realized that unless we did something about the national strategy to fight the white ball in the future, it could be very easy to sign more such agreements. So please, if not now, then in some future changes and additions, because I believe we will discuss this law after a certain application of that law, to pay attention to Article 9. For technical reasons, I haven't submitted the amendment today, but just to distract you. I heard at one point that someone mentioned it, but let's keep that in mind for you. It's that in Article 9, we can change Article 60 of the Law, where we change attitude 2, in my opinion, from one requirement to you government ministers, to make one national fight or national strategy for the fight against the white plague and to make the next change, which is to include the insurance company, the woman in a special period of three years for every child she's given birth. Now we've got equalization between the interns and the men. Now they're going to need an equal number of working hours or years to retire, but I think this article or the amendment, however you accept it or in any future implement a new amendment, can affect it. I repeat once again, the JS parliamentary group will certainly support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4246	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4247	Thank you. We'll definitely think about it. You just need to know that, as this equation takes place very gradually and with very broad time limits, these measures, which you spoke of, referring to Article 9, will also follow that equation. I understand your intensity and we certainly need to think about it. I answered about the other thing. You probably did one slip, by accident, but I wouldn't want that slip to go away without a little correction. The Brussels agreement was not signed between Belgrade and Pristina, as nothing was signed between Belgrade and Pristina. The agreement was signed between Belgrade and the European Commission. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4248	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4249	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Vulin, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vucic, in his exhibition, which he submitted to this high-level House of People's MPs, in the April 2014 elections of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, said on page 6, among other things, this, quote: "To develop the potential of human resources, to attract investment and build an economy for the future, the current government will engage in three large tasks that we are fully committed to," the quote concluded. He said the first, quote: "Reforming the way our economy works by adopting a very extensive, detailed and serious package of reforms in parliament," finished the quote. Dear ladies and gentlemen, these would be new fundamental, detailed laws that would create a real market environment in Serbia and help destroy the corruption that destroys our society and the state. These laws would reform the way in Serbia and allow for much more investment and capital, and that means new jobs. So we would try to save the country from the collapse that the former government of the former regime led to. However, the reform law, which this parliament is due to adopt, is the Labour Act, as well as the Law on PIO. Dear People's MPs, the government made them up in record time, delivered them to parliament for consideration and adoption. That's how SNS and its president do it by system – seen. Under the so far 2005 Labour Act, the criminal policy of those who had previously led the country, the former government...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4250	MP, please, there will be a protest, you must not speak criminally. Get it out of your speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4251	... They have led to the downfall of the number of employees by 354 thousand, mostly in the private sector, which is to fill our budget. Therefore, it is normal to resort to amendments and additions to the Labour Act. Dear ladies and gentlemen, these amendments and additions to the Labour Act will make it easier, the first employment of older people indefinitely, secondly, to remove the obligation for employers to pay the severance fees for the entire employment period because Serbia was the only country in the world. As a result of such a provision, the businessmen hesitated to hire persons with long-term employment or to conclude contracts for a certain period of time, thus avoiding the obligation to pay a high severance payment in the event that the need to hire workers ceased. The new provisions concerning contracts for a period of time allow easier employment on projects limited to several years and gives opportunities to newly established enterprises to close a two-year contract for employees, as it is estimated that it would be necessary for open companies to stabilize on the market. New changes will especially please the unemployed because the law will allow both work on a distance and working part-time. The adoption of the Labour Act is a step in the right direction towards the determination to implement reforms and to launch business activities, and that, ladies and gentlemen, means to create new jobs. It is good that the support of the Labour Act was given in particular, first employers' organisations, second Serbian Chamber of Commerce, third individual unions and fourth large enterprises. It is not good that support for the Labour Law was not given by the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia, the United Border Trade Unions "Independence", which unfortunately deals only with their privileges and not the right of workers. In the end, it is good, first that the Labour Act will allow for greater employment and less layoffs. Secondly, it is good that this law will allow employers to receive new workers with their flexibility. Third, it is good that this law will give inspection a much greater role to contribute to the fight against the gray economy. Fourthly, it is good that this law is one of the conditions for foreign investment in Serbia. Fifthly, it's good that this Labour Act abolishs the privileges of union executives and not only well but also excellent. Sixthly, it is good that this law will allow new types of employment, which will especially please the unemployed, such as. long-distance work and part-time work. Seven, it's a good thing this Labour Act predicted abolishing administration and paperwork because it envisioned the introduction of electronic communications. And eight, it's a good thing this law will allow workers to go on vacation after the first month. Finally, these laws fall into the order of reform laws that will ensure a more favourable, stable economic environment, and this is the basic prerequisite for foreign investment, and this also means the creation of new jobs. These laws will certainly contribute to the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia for which the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vucic, and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, so warmly advocated. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, MPs to give your vote for reform laws, especially the opposition gentlemen, because you will show the team that you are also for the modernisation of Serbia, which is probably our common goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4252	Thank you, MP. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if the President or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4253	Since it's a bit of a cheerful atmosphere, I'd say the previous speaker didn't just mention the first lady, he forgot about Brian. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, as my colleagues from the NDS have said today, we cannot support such a labour law. We also said why it was like that. Because this law does not allow new employment but makes it easier to fire employees in Serbia. It's clear to everyone. I wouldn't be dealing with the charges that have been made here today to the previous government, because this government has been blamed by someone before them. They can't get into the hands of state affairs, they're pulling on others. However, the sad fact is that according to data available by the World Bank, Serbia is the last place towards labour prices, not only in Europe but also in the world, the lowest labour price. So, the cost of working in Serbia per hour is 115 dinars, and Romania is ahead of us when calculating the course on today in Romania is 1.14 euros, in Brazil 1.15, in Lithuania 1.76, etc. So, unfortunately, Serbia, Mr. Babic, is in the last place at the cost of working in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4254	Please speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4255	Yes, but Mr. Babic throws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4256	I'm warning Mr. Babic, in the sense that he's not communicating with you, he's communicating with me. There's no warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4257	Mr. Minister, what has the Labour Act been waiting for so far, why hasn't the previous government adopted it if you wanted to create conditions for foreign investment? Why in the middle of July? I don't think they're at sea because they don't have the money to pay the sea, they're probably somewhere in the country, helping their parents or processing their grandfathers. Why in July and without a deal with social partners without unions? Why on weekends in 24 hours of emergency procedure? Why did you read the exposés this morning or what we could call it in such a way that we couldn't understand it. It turns out that we can make it very clear that you're telling the truth with the 1994 speech, because 20 years ago your previous party was made. A relationship to unions is not what you can brag about. The attitude towards workers is not what you can boast of, Mr. Vulin. So this relationship is like workers are some excess, some burden, and just pensioners, they're just a burden to the state. Only they ate state money in the past few years. Mr. Vulin, you know that pensioners receive twenty thousand dinars of pension. The average pension is 20 grand and the average salary is 24 grand. Have you tried to put yourself in the position of a pensioner who needs to survive from first to first with 20 grand? The good part of the pension is in the range of 12 to 20 grand. Did you put yourself in the position of a pensioner or a worker with 20 grand to feed his family from 1st to 1st with 12th or 20th? You by this law, Mr. Vulin, take them more from that salary linearly to everyone. Based on the fact that you're going to take someone's past work, Mr. Vulin, because the other day a lady met me in Novi Sad and asked me if it's true that because I worked in higher schools, I taught physics, I had more employers in the next period, because two years ago I came to work at a new school, and would I not be admitted to past work? That is what doctors who have moved from one home to another ask. Mr. Vulin, the Labour Act is not the main thing why foreign investors don't come to Serbia, why are they bypassing it? What do the people who are supposed to invest in Serbia say? I'll list a few of the remarks they have that they don't come to Serbia for, which is why they don't invest. According to Milos Djurkovic, president of the US Chamber of Commerce in Serbia – the most important thing is regulation of property regulations, respect for intellectual property rights, yesterday was a debate in the Assembly on respect for intellectual property rights, then, Gabor Beckeri, vice-president of the Foreign Investors Council – legislation is untransparent and unpredictable, often changing laws, it is hard to read. I quote: "When investors invest money in the country, they want to have predictable economic conditions on the long term," they don't mention any labour law. The government says it should boost the country's economic growth and at the same time take care of the interests of its citizens and find a balance between them. Andreas Hayvenhaver, a trade adviser at the Embassy of Austria, says – the main problem is too much bureaucracy, slow judiciary, systemic corruption, does not mention the Labour Act. Dmitar Halfina says the problem is bad infrastructure, bad business environment, not to mention the Labour Act. You're saying that the Labour Act will get foreign investors, I guess we have an even lower labour price, I guess we should go below this labour price, I guess we'll pay people even less than this price you've been talking about. Is that how you think you're gonna attract foreign investors? They'd be very happy if this law would solve that question. We've made amendments, trying to fix this law. However, without other system laws that resolve these issues, there is no recovery for us, no employment for us. Where are you going to hire people to be fired under this labour law? Did you ever ask a question, when you say 350,000 people were fired under this previous law that we're changing now, and how many thousands of people would still be fired if there was this more liberal law? Maybe 500,000 people. So it would be easier to fire employers. How do you think you're going to prevent the layoff by adopting a more liberal law for employers? There's something wrong. I guess it's stricter conditions for employers, huh? It's only then that you're preventing a reduction in unemployment. On the other hand, if you say that you're going to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4258	Thank you. You've spent all your time with the MPs. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4259	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've worked really hard to track the previous speaker. Maybe I'm not smart enough, but what he's trying to say is, he was really unconnected, except for a few things that have nothing to do with the truth. When it is said that at the cost of work we are the last in the world or in Europe, it would be much nicer and better if it were legitimate and said – in 2012, we left it to you. Well, in 2012 we were the last in the world and this is the product of the rule of the political party of the previous speaker. And if we wanted to spoil it, we had nothing to spoil, because you didn't leave us anything. The empty house doesn't break down. There are other parameters and other measurable things. We were the last in the world to fight corruption, so we fixed it from 86th to 72nd place in the past two years, but it took both political will and desire to build a state of strong institutions. For the freedom of the media, we were the worst from the space of the former Yugoslavia, and now we are, according to data, the second after Slovenia, and I speak for the space of the former Yugoslavia. After the deadline for obtaining permits in 2012 – the last in Europe. Therefore, the only thing I can agree with is that this is one of the laws that creates a better business environment and no one will explicitly say – yes, the Labour Act, but the Labour Act is one of the laws that creates a better business environment. Without a better business environment, no investments, no investments, no new jobs, no new jobs, no lives in Serbia. Understand that chain once. This labour law is a law that has been made, which is more liberal than the existing one that has failed to even preserve jobs, let alone open a perspective for new ones. In addition, what often some people in this hall are whaled by large foreign investment is likely that large foreign investments are the sale of social capital or the sale of Miskovic's share of Delta Maksija or bonds or I don't know what. What doesn't exist in economic logic, so much foreign investment and losing jobs, that's impossible. Investment brings new jobs. We lost them in Serbia, which means there were no real investments as soon as jobs in Serbia were lost.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4260	Time, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4261	I conclude, the SNS will support this law, which is a European law, which creates a better business environment and opens the perspective of new jobs in Serbia, which is the desire and policy of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4262	Thank you. Borislav Stefanovic wants 10 seconds. I'll interrupt you in 10 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4263	Thank you. The Democratic Party cannot support this law because it does absolutely nothing and I call on the SPS, the SDPS and the PUPS to vote against this law...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4264	Thank you, that's 13 seconds. Dr. Janko Veselinović, come in. What do you want? Replication to whose exposure? He didn't say your name. It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I can't hear you very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4265	He said. Can you give me a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4266	You got it, just say what an offensive term it was, then it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4267	He was talking about exposure that was unrelated.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4268	You know what you said on his behalf and on the account of the parliamentary group? Since I have the right to give a replica, I believe there is no basis for replication and I thank you. You've used your time, and now we can't get the debate back to square one and everybody's using a replica whose base it wasn't. I give my word at the end to Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4269	You know how, no matter what fraction DS says, there's always one thing in common, and that's that the facts are completely non-binding. Opinion is allowed, but the facts are not binding on anyone. You know, the average salary in Romania, which is talked about here with such contempt, is lower than in Serbia. And this despised Romania has a 22m-capital market and is a member of the EU and we, in addition to this despised Romania, need to convince foreign investors to come here, and they only have the advantage of having a 22m-domestic market, lower average earnings and are members of the EU. But we will solve it, as we resolved in 2008 when Boris Tadic promised 500,000 new jobs, 500,000 new jobs. That's what we got 354 out of it, or how many thousands have already been fired. Only an unwitting man can say that this law is more rigid than the last law. No, it's not predicting the reason for firing anything that's bad for a worker. That's not an ugly word. It's something that's good, because the worker knows what a breach of discipline is, which is why he can lose his job and not get it done, and the employer can't quit without clearly foreseen reasons to do so. Why are you talking about employers as the worst thing in the world? Well, I guess there are some people who hire, I guess they organize production, I guess a worker and an employer should be on the same side, doing something. I listened carefully, as the whole of Serbia listened to this debate, and I really did not hear arguments in favour of the fact that this is an anti-work law, and especially not that it would improve the dismissal. I repeat, the law is not necessary, because if it were, would all these hundreds of thousands of people be fired? You know, since there's a lot of mention here of JUL and my membership in JUL, let me tell you something. I left JUL in 1998 as deputy director of the Directorate, so as another man of the party, at a time when I could become the youngest minister in Serbia's history. So I left JUL when he was at the height of his strength, and I didn't leave my party when she was at the bottom, like you, so you dumped her and left her...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4270	Minister, I have to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4271	So you left her and left her when she was weak and no one looked at her alive. Now, I'm out of power, I'm out of political division, I'm out of control when I'm in power, not when I'm in a poor opposition, so when I have to beat her up. It's your political right, but just so you don't give me something that you don't have the courage to do yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4272	I thank the minister. Replication rights are given to MP Marko Djurisic, mentioned by the party's president.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4273	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it's clear from this latest statement by Mr. Minister why it was necessary for him to read the opening exposés, because apparently when he doesn't read, he says those things that are absolutely unworthy of this home. Please, if you haven't followed correctly, you could have listened to the arguments all day why this law would not achieve what you stated to be the basis, which is to attract foreign investment and create new jobs. All day long, in this little time we've had we've talked about just that. If you didn't want to listen, that's already another problem, but you don't have the right to talk about how MPs here don't make arguments when they're discussing, especially after today's discussion, because what you could hear from opposition MPs was just arguments. They were not praised to the Prime Minister, the President of the State, the Government, I don't know who else, we had the opportunity to listen and praise about you and about your character and about the work and the Brussels Agreement and about the defence of Kosovo and about everything else that is not the point of this agenda. Who had a political destiny and what he did in politics, I'm always ready to talk about it. I've been in politics for 25 years. I'm the only one who's ever had an idea. I was never in power because I wasn't interested in the government as such. I was an MP in this assembly for 12 years. I was once part of the ruling majority. I used to be an opposition MP. I did the best I could to make this country better. Were there any mistakes? There were mistakes. We paid that price in the election, we'll pay if we have to and in the future, we have no problem with that. But we've heard one amazing thing here, it's said that prison should end up with people who have enforced the law. I'm asking you, what does the government have to do to enforce the government?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-15-0.u4274	Thank you, the replica is finished. Dear Members, I hereby conclude a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. The session's next item of the agenda is tomorrow at 10.00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladimir Pavicevic, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Branko Ruzic, Aleksandar Senic and Dejan Nikolic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that, apart from the representatives of the motions of all members of the Government, I have called for the meetings to be attended by Aleksandra Damnjanovic, State Secretary of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Marko Blagojevic, Director of the Office for the Aid and Reconstruction of Flooded Areas and Daniel Nikolic, Head of the Office of the Secretary General of the Government. We continue to work and move on to a common principled single search on the acts referred to in points 3 and 4 of the agenda. Consensually Decisions of the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for action in the agenda under points 3 and 4 and before the opening of a joint principled single search, I remind you that it is appropriate to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary groups. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2), Article 192(3) and Article 228(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled search and a single search into the proposal for a Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia and the Report on the elemental flood disaster, which has hit the Republic of Serbia and the measures taken to save the population and defend the threatened areas from the floods. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
