ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 11th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 153 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 168 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Mirjana Dragas, Mladen Grujic, Momo Colaković and Suzana Spasojevic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure and exceptional for Monday, other than those laid down in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. The sitting session that was delivered to you contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the sitting, i.e. in accordance with Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. The word of the messenger of the people, Mr. Alexander Jerkov, is according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear members of the government, this is not about you what I'm about to say, but about the National Assembly. I think, Mr. Vice President, that you have violated Article 151 and Article 153 of the agenda, that whoever called the session and put together the proposed agenda, on which we should plead, has violated those two members. In fact, in the sea of laws that arrived on Saturday night, there is also a bill on amendments and additions to the 2014 Budget Act, so-called Rebalance rebalancing. I'll remind you of article 151. The Rules of Procedure, which provides that the draft laws that come to the Assembly should look. In fact, it states in paragraph 2.8 that if it is about amendments and additions to the law, which is the case with rebalancing, it should have a review of the provisions of the applicable regulations that are changed, or complemented, in brackets, by drawing up a part of the text that is being changed, and writing the new text in capital letters. There's no such thing as a rebalancing proposal that we got. Article 153 obliges the speaker of the Assembly, in our case, as the president has been prevented, although it is not reported that he will not attend the session, as is done in these situations. It is important, in accordance with Article 153, to return this proposal which is not prepared in accordance with this Rules of Procedure to the Government, to ask the Government to prepare it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and then to re-determine it, otherwise, the Rules of Procedure prevent us from discussing it at all because it is a bill that is not prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I believe that it is important for the government to adopt these 160m euros quickly for Er Serbia, but don't drag us into it, because there will indeed be a bad picture in this assembly, not in the Government, whose interest is that in the Assembly as soon as possible. So, please act in accordance with Article 153, return the Government to the Rebalancing Proposal, because we cannot discuss a bill that is not prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16940	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement on this in the voting day? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. I thank you. The government has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Serbian Army, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – 13 abstentions – there is no vote, 161 of the total of 179 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstention – there is no, 179 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the Credit Line Guarantee Treaty for the Deposit Insurance Agency between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 versus – nine abstentions – there is no vote, 21 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that most of the votes the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on co-operation in the veterinary field, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, abstention – there is no, 178 of the 182 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed to put the draft law on granting a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of OTP Banka Serbia a.d. Novi Sad, Bank of Intez a.d. Belgrade, NBG Bank Malta LTD, AIK Banka a.d. Nis and Uni Credit Banka Serbia a.d., under the responsibility of JP "Srbigas" Novi Sad, who submitted to the National Assembly on 15 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, v – 10 abstentions – no, 22 of the 186 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft law on the takeover of the AIR Serbia a.d. company, according to legal and physical persons on the basis of the services and goods delivered and the conversion of those obligations to the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 16 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154 against – 12 abstentions – no, 21 of the 187 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that, on an urgent procedure, the draft budget law for the Republic of Serbia for 2015 be put on the agenda with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2015, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2015, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the National Employment Service's 2015 financial plan and the proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2015 Social Insurance Fund, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – nine abstentions – there are no, 22 MPs did not vote from the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – 15 abstentions – there is no vote, there is no vote by 16 MPs from the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2014, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – 19, the abstentions – there is no, 13 MPs did not vote from the 189 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Serbian Progressive Party MP group has proposed that the draft decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – three abstentions – there are no, 175 MPs have not voted among the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Act amending and supplementing the Excise Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – 17 abstentions – there are no, 15 MPs have not voted among the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft amending and supplementing the 2014 Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia with the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for the year 2014 and the Proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision of the Amendments and the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2014, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 20 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – 16, the abstentions – there is no, there is no vote by 14 MPs from the total 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – 10 abstentions – there is no vote, not by 21 MPs from the total of 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – 18 abstentions – there are no, 12 MPs did not vote from the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending the Value Added Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, v – 18 abstentions – there is no, there is no vote by 13 MPs from the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending the Law on the return of seized property and compensation, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 December 2014, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, v – 18 abstentions – there is no, there is no vote by 13 MPs from the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, under Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on: the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014 with the Proposal for a Decision to give consent to the Decision on Amendments to the Treaty on the Financial Fund of the Republic of Serbia for the year 2014 and the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision of the Republic of Serbia and the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2014; the Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia for 2015 with the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2015; the Proposal for a decision on the granting of the Agreement on the Law of the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia; the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of Serbia for the year 2015; the Proposal for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Social; the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws; the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Social; the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws; the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws; the Laws; the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws; the Laws; the Laws; the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws; Does the MP, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – 22 abstentions – there are no, 10 MPs have not voted from a total of 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in the whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – 24 abstentions – there are no, seven MPs did not vote from a total of 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the 11th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, in general. Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014 with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Republic of Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2014 and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the National Employment Service’s Financial Plan for 2014, 2. Proposal for a Law on the 2015 budget of the Republic of Serbia with a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for 2015, a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2015, a proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2015 Financial Plan of the National Employment Service and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for the 2015, 3. Proposal for a law amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on value added tax, 7. A Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law amending the Return Act of the Abuse of Assets and Compensation, 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, 10. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of OTP banka Serbia a.d., Novi Sada, Banca Intesa a.d., Belgrade, NBG Bank Malta LTD, AIK Banka.d. Nis and Unified Banka Serbia a.d., under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad, 11. Proposal for a law on the takeover of the obligations of Air Serbia a.d. towards legal and physical persons on the basis of services and goods delivered and the conversion of these obligations into public debt of the Republic of Serbia, 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on a guarantee for a credit line for the Deposit Insurance Agency between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We're going to work on a set agenda. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16941	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I would like to suggest that, under Article 97, paragraph 3 of the debate on all these 12 points that we have put on the agenda today, we extend to double time for ten hours. Regardless of what half of the laws we are discussing today were given on Saturday afternoon, which came to the Assembly on Thursday, given the importance of the points to be discussed, which are budget rebalances for 2014, the next year's budget, the three laws which increase the debt of the Republic of Serbia by more than half a billion euros, I believe it is necessary to extend the debate, because I am sure that the MPs, in addition to the short time they had to prepare for all these agenda points, have much to say, so I propose that the Assembly declares itself on extending and doubling time for all these points of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16942	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda under points 1 to 12 and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time for discussion in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since a representative of the parliamentary group has proposed a longer debate in principle, that is, the time for debate for parliamentary groups, I propose that we put this proposal to the vote. I suggest that the MPs be heard. Here you go. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 169 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We're moving on to a joint principled single search. The word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16943	Mr. Chairman, I believe that members of 86 and 87 as well as members of 41 have been violated. The Law on the National Assembly. Because the MPs didn't have absolutely time to deal with 12 acts you put into a joint debate, but of course it's not hard for us. You can do it in one day, but because that's what you wanted to cover up all the bad things you're trying to impose on Serbian citizens through this budget. In particular, in article 87, you had the opportunity to do so. Madam President, to hold the session elsewhere, in a physical sense, I think it has broken and I think it was much more economical and practical to hold a session in Germany 11. Since the material is about seven pounds [7 kg], it's nice to meet you there and finely raise our hands and adopt everything the government has imagined to adopt, it really doesn't make any sense physically or in a material sense, or in a substantive sense, as we're going to point out during the debate. I think you could still have avoided this situation because the president had no reason to do this again, at this speed, except, of course, to meet the government who is trying to cover up everything that's wrong and what he does every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16944	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16945	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I consider the injured Rules of Procedure to be Article 108. The budget of a country is the most important document to be adopted during the year and which creates the fate of a country for next year. I think this waste of time over the past few minutes, a few dozen minutes by calling the Rules of Procedure is a waste of time and it is a prevention to get to that document as soon as possible. When it comes to those who have many 12 points of the agenda, I would remind you that this National Assembly had 73 points of the agenda on 5 May 2010, that on 29 May 2009, it was 59... Marco Djurisic, from the scene: You're bored with this nonsense. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16946	Mr. Djurishic, please don't throw the speaker away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16947	... that on May 13, she brought 45 points together, that on October 18, 2011 she brought together 37 points. So much for that very extensive agenda. I will remind you, when it comes to the budget that the budgets, for example, were adopted in June 2007, I will remind you that the 2004 budget was adopted in April 2004, and I will remind you of just a part of what the SNS once asked for, and it was denied duplication of time, so let's just say 12 times between 2008 and 2011. Of course, the congregation’s majority at that time always refused because it felt that the five hours was enough, but we also have three cases in the Eighth Assembly when instead of five hours for the debate, time was cut to half and two and a half hours respectively. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Chairman, to introduce this session into normal flows and start talking about topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16948	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16949	So 104 and 106. You, Mr. Chairman, have allowed Mr. Babic to talk about article 108, which provides for a statement of notice and what the Administrative Committee does. He did not mention, for a single moment, what Article 108 is about. You could have interrupted it, though, because by breaking up the other members of the Rules of Procedure again, he had replicated to me, in particular, without any substantive explanation, logic or anything else, as we unfortunately did to him. So, it's not too hard for us to get you 112 acts together, I just said it would have been much better if we'd done it in Nemanja's 11, not to waste any time. What do we need the Assembly for, what do we need a debate for? We're gonna go over there nice and we're gonna put our hands up after that myonic reckoning and that's it. That's what this is about. That what was done with the rebalancing, we pointed to Mr. Chairman, that what was done with the rebalance, at the last moment, had no other purpose than to cover up the mistakes that the government was making, not to save on time. Then Mr. Babic, with your tolerance, quotes a member of 108 who has nothing to do with this unless he asks you to give me a warning about calling the Rules of Procedure. But it seems to me that you've been wise to keep it quiet, so I hope that's what you'll do in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16950	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to allow me at least to open a joint principled single search so that I can put order into the debate of the MPs. The word is a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16951	A member of 103 who speaks of what a person who wishes to point out to the chairman in breach of the Rules of Procedure is obliged to do. If we're in the middle of a session when the MPs can come forward, advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and say what they want, then we can do that. We can now say that kids don't go to school today because there's no 25m euros in the teacher's salary budget... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16952	Miss Jerkov, this is now really turning the National Assembly into something that isn't her role. Please point to the Rules of Procedure if you think he's been violated. Let me give you an explanation and let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16953	I would do that to Mr. Becic if you would explain yourself. The last time I pointed out, you said - I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure and you didn't give any explanation, so we can do that. It's just that we say what you want, you say. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, and that's how we do it. Just say that we all know and that's how it works. That we all, as Mr. Babic, report that we are replicating instead of advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but obviously it's no problem when he does it, but the problem is when one of the opposition's MPs does it. Please don't work like that or if we work like that, then let us all act like Mr. Babic, so you can see what this is going to look like today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16954	I thank you, Miss Jerkov. If you have noticed, so far have three MPs since the opposition's breach of the Rules of Procedure and only one MP from the post. I don't think it's an equal way of performing in the National Assembly. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16955	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe he was injured in the presentation of Mr Babic, a member of 107, where he said in attitude 1 that the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. We haven't heard a word about the injury of the Rules of Procedure in his exposure. We've heard pointless claims about how it was once done. Never in this assembly, at the same session in a united debate, have budget rebalances for the current year and budget for the following year been adopted. Not a single time. This majority obviously wants to set new standards in devising parliament. Your role as President of Parliament is to protect the institution of parliament and not to allow it. What was referred to as a breach of the Rules of Procedure was in this sense, to protect this Parliament and its dignity, by allowing us to conduct a good debate. We can't have a budget rebalance debate that we got Saturday afternoon. It was sent in a way that wasn't according to the Rules of Procedure. That's what my colleague Jerkov was talking about. That rebalance is a disaster, a shame. It wasn't done by the Rules of Procedure. There is something hidden in it, and it is your obligation to preserve the dignity of the congregation and not to allow it. The budget is due to come to parliament on 1 November. We waited until December 18th. Instead of two weeks minimum, as long as it took for the Rules of Procedure to stand before it was adopted, we have four days. And here someone gets upset when they say it. We've come here to discuss and we don't want to take any insults and listen to senseless claims about how something used to be. I haven't counted how many times I've asked for an extension of the debate in this term. I'm not 12 times, I believe, as my colleague Babic said, in four years, but I'm certainly half of it in less than a year. We'll get to those 12 and 22 and 52 very soon, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16956	Time, Mr. Djurishich. Thank you. Mr. Djurisic, I think only after what you and Mrs. Jerkov have said after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, can I just ask you, do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? Yeah. Thank you. Miss Jerkov? Yeah. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16957	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Rules of Procedure, Art. 103 and 104. I don't think what I'm saying is pointless, but it is pointless what they did. And because of that, a reminder of everything the former regime has done, and in some parts of our country like Vojvodina, and the current regime, it is painful. It's not just painful for us, MPs, it's painful for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I don't see any connection, Mr. Chairman, which you're allowing, and no reason why you're allowing -- if on one hand the budget is being reduced, if the budget rebalance is being diminished, and I'll remind you, and if it's painful for some people here, in 2009, it was also the budget rebalance, then you didn't represent it so badly. But if we have social networks, and I've been following it well in the last few days, measuring that budget, for God's sake, it's so big and heavy that they couldn't bring it to the Assembly, and then they were comparing it to pets-- what's bigger -- a pet or a rebalance is bigger, and on the other hand you say something's hiding. So how can something in this kind of material be hidden when everything is transparent and public? Why are we talking about the reasons for this budget rebalance? Let's look at the reasons for the 2009 budget rebalance. And this rebalancing was due to savings, because of what this government has promised the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and what we have achieved. Once again, I will no longer report for breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, Serbia has no time to waste time. We want to work and let's talk about the proposed agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16958	Thank you. Miss Jerkov, you answered your word again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16959	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Article 85(2) - the draft agenda of the National Assembly can only be included in the proposals for acts submitted in accordance with the Constitution, the law and this Rules of Procedure. The budget rebalance was not submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You told me without reason that you didn't violate the Rules of Procedure. Please show me where in the draft amending and supplementing law for 2014 there is the part which Article 151. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the bill must have an explanation, where is the crossed part of the text of the law that is being amended and the new text entered in capital letters – the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not prepared the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? Please give them back the bill of law. There will be time, we can give AIR 160m euros to Serbia in four days. We don't have to today when educators strike because there are no 25m euros for their salaries. You know that a little bit and insults them. In addition to being incompatible with the Rules of Procedure, it is more than problematic. And to Mr. Babic, let me just say, a pet might be easier than a budget... But he's certainly smarter. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16960	I ask the MPs to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. Surely, Miss Jerkov, after so many years, is not worth teaching you the Rules of Procedure now. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Does the Assembly want to make a statement? Yeah. I thank you. Mr. Djukanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16961	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 92. - the session agenda is determined by the National Assembly. We've established it and it's time to start working. The fact that educators don't have salaries, so we with this budget a billion and a hundred and a few million euros, all we have to do is pay back what they left us here. Don't let them talk about the educators that led to the beggar stick. Therefore, I ask you, Serbia has to start working and let us start working, and if they want, they can go on forever. For seven years, the final account has never been given to us here, and this is the first time that the budget is very fundamentally explained in the right way, and it is really time to start working and this session takes some normal course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16962	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, no matter what you've reported to a member and pointed to a member who hasn't been injured. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Mr. Sutanovac, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16963	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, has been injured by Article 107. My predecessor just hurt that member by...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16964	That member's already been quoted, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16965	In his presentation, he committed an injury, and you did not warn him. The facts do not stand as Mr Djukanovic said. The fact is, if you think of us as Democrats, we never had a minister of education. Mr. Minister of Education sits here. He'll tell you if a debt was made at the time or not...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16966	Mr. Sutanovac, no one mentioned DS when he mentioned the minister of education, and please don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16967	So I have two minutes to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16968	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16969	So, two minutes from which you're taking 30 seconds. What's with the anxiety at the beginning of the session?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16970	Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16971	So you were obliged to warn Mr Djukanovic not to address his fellow MPs in this way. Because we've never cut anyone's salary in education, just like this very bad government does. We haven't cut our pensions... We didn't owe the state eight billion. [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16972	Yes, I am, Mr. Sutanovac. And I won't let anyone break the Rules of Procedure like this ever again, calling on the Rules of Procedure. Anyone who speaks besides the breach of the Rules of Procedure will be taken away from him, and I will apply the measures of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16973	Mr. Chairman, Articles 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure. I believe that some fellow Members of the people from photographing pets...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16974	Mr. Granny, don't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You can't talk anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16975	I'm talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16976	Don't speak after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. According to Article 97(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby inform you that in addition to the representatives of the motionor, all the members of the Government, I have been invited to attend today's session by Nenad Mijailović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mirjana Ćojbašić, Assistant Minister of Finance, Irena Stevanović Gavrović, Assistant Minister of Finance, Radmila Jagodić, Assistant Minister of Finance, Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour, Employment, Boračka and Social Affairs, Mr Nenad Katanić, Assistant Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Branko Drčelić, Director of Public Debt Management at the Ministry of Finance, Ivana Magdić, Assistant Director of Public Debt Management at the Ministry of Finance, Ružica Tripić, Head of the Ministry of Agriculture and Protection of the Environment, Slavica Manojlović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance, Ivan Maganić in the Ministry of Finance, Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance of Finance of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Ljubljana. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and to Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principled and uniform search on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Act on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, with the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Financial Fund of the Republic of Serbia for the year 2014 and the Proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Decision on amendments to the National Employment Fund for 2014 of the Bank, the Proposal for a Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia for 2015, the Proposal for a Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia for the year 2015, and the Proposal for a Decision on the National Employment of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) The word has a finance minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16977	Thank you very much. I will try briefly to present two basic laws and explain the essence of the following laws. Although the number of laws listed here sounds impressively large, it is practically a matter of minimal changes in the laws that allow budget implementation. The first point I want to say something about is budget rebalance. It is very important that we put things in the real context and first bring about the rebalancing and this rebalancing that we propose to resuscitate the funds in the context of the savings that we expect. So the first and most important information - the budget rebalance adopted in this assembly envisioned a deficit of 225 billion dinars. With the state on December 19th, Friday, our deficit is 155 billion dinars. That's 70 billion lower than the deficit that was foreseen in the rebalancing. The reason is that there is less capital expenditure, less enforcement, less material costs, an increase in income and a reduction in financial costs. In such a situation, we project that by the end of the year the deficit will not be greater than 190 billion. The reasons for each of these items can be discussed and we can explain to ourselves why this is happening in our budget system that is quite rigid. Of the 70 and more billion expected savings, we only foresee this rebalance to use those savings to pay the debts incurred two, three, five and more years ago, which we have been pulling for years and we have not had the strength, neither the financial nor the moral, to settle these debts. There are no miscalculations, nothing hides absolutely. I will read the figures that are proposed, and they are proposed solely because this Assembly passed the Budgetary System Act, which does not allow one category of savings to be moved, from one addition to another. Therefore, I propose that the debate on the essence of the constraints that we impose on ourselves and essentially transfer responsibility to another debate, we can consider amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. Today we're just solving a question that's a burning issue, which is that we're approaching the end of the year, that we're going to have a good, fantastic result of almost 2% of total reductions and one and a half percent after these proposed changes, to use those funds to pay for what we owe for a long time. I will now tell you who – senior courts and primary courts in total of two billion 756 million, mainly for the costs of lawyers who were officially defending Serbian citizens and the costs of experts providing court disputes with unbiased information, so that judicial proceedings can be brought to an end by law, so we propose two billion 756 million. We suggest that the Agrarian Payments Administration pays four billion and 33 million dinars of the leftover demand of agricultural producers that have been being dragged and increased for years, that we stop it once, that we have a clean start, and that when we consider the agricultural subsidy policy, we know that we don't have a debt table under which we've been towed for five, six or more years. The third item, Serbia's MUP, has three, four elements of the cost we want to help them return. One is a debt to Telecom. As you know, the MUP uses permanent communication in every situation and has costs that are 700 million higher than what they could pay for. We cannot expect Telecom to stabilize, restructure and privatise unless we resolve its claims in the country. We propose that these savings, which have reached 700m, be separated from Serbia's MUP to pay Telecom's debt. Secondly, the same explanation for the EPS cannot operate on sound grounds if there are claims in billions. We suggest that 470 million MUP of Serbia repay the EPS debt. In addition, we're proposing another 518 million for combined payment of back-up fees, so-called. Jubilee awards and charges for the transport of officials to the MUP. Finally, we propose that we grant 500 million additional funds to the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection for workers' severances, which could not be predicted in October since the response to the proposed programmes was greater than planned. Based on last week's data, and before that, we couldn't know, we expect the costs to be higher by 500 million and we suggest that the addition of 500 million additional to social programmes be separated. In total, it's nine billion. With today, if we add that to the budget deficit of 155, we get 164, that's still 36 plus 25, 60 billion and more. According to our estimates, the deficit will not exceed 190 billion and we will still have 40 billion or 1% of the social product compared to what we planned with the rebalancing. I think that's a fantastic result. I think it would be a bad policy if such a simple rebalancing, in which there is no ER Serbia or anything that is alluded here, were not used to repay the debts of the past. We have a moral obligation to do this. Those who think they shouldn't, if they had a majority in parliament, I would stand up. I'm not a politician, I'm not a member of any party, but if you had a majority, I would stand up to not having our debts pushed before us for years now when we can. This is an opportunity to start at zero, to start from a clean bill and to do these measures right next year. Where did these funds come from? They came first and foremost from the savings achieved by the finance ministry on items set out for the financial costs and for the country's expropriation. Since the expropriation process mainly for infrastructure projects is going slower in real life than is planned, there are still unused funds and we paid less interest and financing costs, which I also think is a good measure of success in the work of the Ministry of Finance. The finance ministry has offered three billion and 462 million nets to finance these proposed nine billion. Agriculture has provided a large part of these four billion by reducing the appraisal in other places, not getting into details, so the net effect at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture is billions and 940. So, out of four billion and 33 million farms alone, it generates more than half of the savings on other appraisals, and the rest of the budget provides them with two billion. In many ministries, savings have been achieved in those categories where funds will not be spent by the end of the year. Total effect, I repeat, on the budget is zero, all of these transactions. So we found savings on all the items, which I don't believe will be, or we're confident there won't be any use by the end of the year, so the increase in deficits, after these expected nine billion payments, will be at a level of 164 billion dinars. So I repeat again, that's 35 plus 25, or 60 billion. Budget for next year. As I said when we adopted the rebalancing, the effect of the smaller deficit will primarily reflect the credibility of the reforms we started, the reduction of debt and the reduction of debt financing costs. By the way, the 2015 budget was available over two weeks on the media. We have sources that provide full data in electronic vision, so I think you all knew. If the media knew and published all the data, I think the MPs probably knew, too. The 2015 budget envisions an increase in revenue from 27 billion dinars, from 897 to 924. We also predict a cost reduction by 27. Those are round figures. That means from 1110 to 1083 billion. This is the first time in years we've seen that we have forecasting nominal costs that are lower in the current year than in the previous year. It's a great success for us. Although inflation is low, the reduction in nominal costs is rare. In doing so, it is achieved under conditions when the total cost of debt increases. So we have a much greater cost reduction if we consider the cost of serviceing debts, i.e. interest, or so on. The primary deficit is significantly reduced by this move. Secondly, very important, we are increasing the degree of transparency of the budget. According to what we promised last time, we transfer all guarantees above the line. So after these two categories I said, the deficit is 158.6 billion dinars and that's comparable to the deficit in the rebalancing of 212 billion. If we add 30.7 billion and other financial costs to that, then we get a 191.3 billion dinar deficit. The deficit does not have a directly comparable figure in the past year because financial expenditures have been classified differently. But what is important is that it leads the overall expected deficit of the general state, which is not subject to consideration in this House, which is the subject of international analysis and our analysis, it is leading to a total deficit expected by around 232 billion, which is almost 70 billion dinars lower than the deficit that followed the rebalancing, when we calculated it in October of the month. That's the number we're targeting in our talks with the Fund. That's the number that international investors are looking at. That's the number that marks the beginning of a new path. What's significant about everything we've said? The change in the structure of the budget doesn't have much, but in all the places where we could make savings. What's most important is the trend of income is reversed. We are starting to increase revenue from the decline in income, as of August of this year, income has been growing and trending. We have a cumulative deficit after August of this year better than in 2013. For us, the trend in the collection of key taxes, excise taxes and VAT is positive and we overcome the figures achieved last year, partly due to the agile work of the tax administration, and in part it seems to me that people's expectations are changing, which people realize that tax discipline will be the government's number one priority and that it will no longer be possible to tax evasion, without responding to anyone, nor to the tax administration, nor to the law. The important second tendency is that, as I said at the outset, we are reducing not only the total expenditure, but we are particularly reducing those expenditures that are so-called acquired rights. I know it's hard, but I'm grateful to the citizens for accepting the meaning of the reforms we're carrying out, the sense of reduction. I have to tell you one thing, we haven't singled out any sectors since we don't think there's a fiscal measure that can favour sectors or favour them. I'm not a politician, but I want to point out one thing, we've had several meetings with representatives of education, education. People are bitter about the level of their salaries. Do you know what the main reason is? The main reason is to complain that they were missed in 2008 in the wage adjustment system. This is the main reason why they are today seeking one - time assistance or adjustment of their wages. We can't break our rules... That's what they say and please talk to them. It would be good for you to talk to them, as we do to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16978	I ask the MPs to allow the minister to complete his presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16979	I listened to you very carefully, and I didn't interrupt anyone. Therefore, I must publicly say for the sake of the citizens that the trade unions in education say the main reason for their strike and appeal is that they have been treated unfairly in 2008 and since then they have reduced salaries. I have to tell you the facts, because you're selectively using facts, and I'm not using them. It's very important that you have that in mind. So what the reduction has now come to a situation that was not good, that's what crossed the glass. Secondly, very important, we will look for solutions for these and all other problems in changing the award system to introduce an organized system and pay grade, which will valorize work, quality of work, level of responsibility and everything else as soon as possible. Then I think he's going to offer a basis to correct this injustice. We cannot correct individual sectoral deviations and individual deviations of individual professions, levels of qualification or complexity of work and responsibility with instruments concerning general fiscal discipline and reduction of general budget deficits. I didn't notice the ministers talking while you were discussing. Also very important, the trends that existed in the past are turning around. This budget is unique because it reverses trends. When trends turn, then you have a different perspective, a different view of the crisis, a different view of getting out of the crisis. Although at the beginning of the shift of trends numerical results are not sufficiently large, the change in behaviour is significant. Serbian citizens believe Serbia is on the right track. Forty-eight% of Serbian citizens believe Serbia, the programme it offers, has a perspective. Although they complain of the costs, although they complain of a reduction in wages and pensions, they believe that this programme and that these government efforts have a chance of success and support it in an all-out manner, I am grateful to them and I am grateful that they accept this sacrifice as an investment in the future, as a way out of this situation, from the difficulties we inherited. In short, allow me a few words about the situation in which we are making this budget. The macroeconomic movements in 2014 were not favourable to us. Even though we thought we had achieved some significant results, significant shifts, it doesn't matter who's responsible for it here, it's important that unemployment started to fall, that it went down to 17.6%, it's important that people expect a better and more important, as someone said, people vote not only when they vote for political parties and parliament, but they vote for money. The consumption and faith of people in improving all of this best shows. Consumer consumption is growing and it is one of the main sources of transport, new employment, growth of social product. Unfortunately, we are not an economy based only on the growth of demand, there are other restrictions on growth and development, but it is a sign that people invest, that people don't think it's going to be worse, but they think that it's going to be better is a very obvious and very positive thing that's happening with us. As you know, in this year we have suffered the very significant consequences of the flood. The international community's objective estimates say Serbia has suffered about a billion euros in cost, half of it is a direct damage, and half of it is a missed income, a missed improvement, a discounted profit, both businesses and individuals. As a result, there was a decline in coal production, electricity production, slowing down the social product. According to our analysis, the deepest decline occurred in the third quarter of this year and since then a gradual resuscitation has started. Although we are entering next year with an estimate of the social nominal, social product of 3,970 billion, it hides a small increase in inflation and a slight slowdown, i.e. a decline in social product, as a result of the shifted trends of this year. It's a highly conservative projection. It's a projection that's been done assuming that none of the positive effects happen, means that no finding, restructuring, resuscitation of production and other elements we count on. First, if Electrodistribution and Coal Production return to the level of production before the flood, it will be a significant positive impression, i.e. an effect on the social product. If the issue of Smeder and the chemical block is resolved, it will be an additional positive effect on the growth of the social product and on the level of the social product. If this solves any other systemic issues, if the investments currently planned and under way are made and other effects are achieved where we have been attracting investments that will eventually start to come out of the area of buying our market in the area of selling our quality services and opportunities for comparative advantages on the world market, we can expect that the real outcome in 2015 will be greater than that on which the budget is based. No one's defending us. Our fundmates say - the better, the easier the team will be. It's very important that I say one thing. The reduction in wages and pensions is not the goal, but the means to take the first step in controlling the fiscal situation. We do not prevent anyone and ourselves from being successful. If we succeed, we will have the opportunity to share that success. If you look at the amendment and addition of the Budgetary System Act, you will see that we have conditionally tied it all to our performances. That's where we said, in an amendment to Article 27, that we would adjust salaries and pensions to the moment when we meet the condition that the salaries are less than 7% of the social product and the pensions are 11%. At that moment, the adjustment formula, so-called "adjustment", takes effect. indexation, salary adjustments and pensions, which will allow that level to be maintained by 7%. I wouldn't go into the technical details of that adjustment, but the bottom line is that the moment we make progress, the improvement, the fiscal plan, and the economic growth plan, we're going to have a chance to share that improvement, and that's going to give everyone an adequate share of that cookie. This should be an interest and motivation for everyone, to participate together in improving and to participate together in resolving the fiscal situation and getting out of this situation. Secondly, very important, I don't know if you've noticed the details, but in our joint statement and after the Fund's mission, there is one very clear positive position that says – the moment we achieve a fiscal improvement, there will be conditions for relaxation and monetary policy. In combination, monetary and fiscal policy must provide a sufficient degree of macroeconomic stability. The moment we achieve an improvement in fiscal results, as we already do in this year, the moment we achieve a higher rate of tax collection, and we will not introduce new taxes and not increase existing tax rates, we will only improve administration and degree of collection, then the possibility will be created to ease monetary policy a little bit, to provide greater room for credit, for credit growth, for growth of finance of the economy and everything that goes with it. Important note. Serbia has one of the smallest levels of monetisation at its level of development in countries in the environment and in the world. As soon as we complete the key structural reforms that we implement in parallel with the budget, including the resolution of loans that are not financed, so-called. The MPLs, an environment will be created in which Serbia will be able to increase the degree of monetisation, introduce new instruments, thus providing means to boost production, create new jobs, and afterwards for economic growth and development. It's one of the key links of this budget to the program. This budget is the assumption of the program, but after that, the consequences of the program. The links between this budget and the government programme, which supports the IMF and the financial markets in the world, is that we are doing parallel measures on the side of expenditure, on the side of income, to solve the problem of the past of the old enterprises that have not functioned and have been in an unsolved situation between normal functioning and bankruptcy for years to finally be resolved. We are also launching a parallel process to improve the functioning and efficiency of public enterprises. The paper of this programme is that the budget, parallel to the Fund and parallel to the structural loans that we expect from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development from Washington and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development from London, is intended to support serious and credible programmes - solving structural problems in public enterprises. This, as a rule, will be a combination of repairing their financial structure, their corporate structure, improving efficiency and management, improving the way of choice and responsibility of management and what is most important, switching to performance criteria when determining success, and thus both wages and everything else based on the business of a successful company. Public enterprises, as a source of loss, will no longer exist. She'll have to close their losses, collect their claims and do business normally. You'll notice and we'll give you a list of all the users of the guarantees that are in the budget, these 30 billion plus two billion other financial forms. I stress that we will not, I can also read that list to you, give more in the current funding guarantee budget, the liquidity loan guarantees, means the main channel that the non-solid enterprises first covered their bad business with short-term loans that were often expensive with inappropriately short repayment periods, behind which the state had nominally stood. That de facto wasn't guarantees, it was direct funding from the budget, it was just happening below the line. That'll stop. So we're closing a channel that's been draining funds out of the budget for years. For us, a good part of the deficit when it grew from 30 to over 65, to 70%, it seems to me by the end of this year, a good part of it came from completely uncontrollable incomes. This time, the Assembly will decide directly on a budget that includes all the elements of funding and such surprises will not be. So, not only is there no surprises in the rebalance, and there are no secrets and no hidden transactions in this budget, and there are no hidden transactions in each of the following budgets, there are no transactions below the line. All applications shall be made in Articles 3a and 3b. You have a detailed description of all guarantees that are limited to structural development loans that promise to improve these companies, enable restructuring and normal business. This budget is part of a three-year program. We are in the last one even though we started on time, we have not yet finalised the text of a fiscal strategy that will be in the government in a few days, or we will refer to the government in a few days. You'll be familiar when that text is adopted. In 2015 he is completely, he is identical with this budget, and in 2016 and 2017 he follows the path that leads us to a sustainable fiscal position in which the deficit will be consistent with the levels of masticht. Whether it will be 3.5 or three or 2.9%, less important, it is important that we be within what the EU expects a country in the pre-accession regime to achieve and maintain. What is even more important than that, which is that we expect, especially after this deficit reduction in 2014 that by the end of 2016, at the beginning of 2017, we finally reverse the trend of debt growth as a participation in the social product, to stop it from moving slowly to fall. We're going to be five or six years old to bring it down to the level of the 60 percent masturbation, but what's very significant is that once it goes down, it's all about dynamics, endurance, social, political, economic, how much we can get back and how much. Secondly, from the point of view of debt, it is very important that we will make all extraordinary revenues, whether it is a better tax charge, whether it is a planned strategic sale or a reduction of the state's assets on use, concessions, or the sale of certain enterprises such as Telecom, revenue from these sales will be used strategically to reduce those debts that are most expensive and to complete those projects that have the highest degree of positive economic fact. So we're going to complete those projects that have been waiting for years, 5 or 10% to end. We will start new projects and, most importantly, we will do the things that make the biggest impact on job creation, future employment and future economic growth. It's a solid deal, the only question is that we make it real. I note that this means that there will be no spillover of higher incomes and capital revenues in consumption, until the conditions that we set forward are met, which is that wage participation is lower than 7% of the social product and pension participation is below 11%. A total of 18% of our expenditure will be related to performance, social product, growth achieved, economic strength achieved for the future. How does that relate to the movement in the environment? As you know, the projections were quite conservative three, four months ago. The recent events of this projection make it even less suitable for us and our neighbours and our main partners in the foreign trade. The EU, which expected a growth of 1.8% in 2015, i.e. by some estimates and even less than 1.5%, can expect even less. I think we're going to have to adapt to the movement in the environment and in that context we're looking for a solution for ourselves. Serbia is a small enough partner to be able to achieve growth and exports and increase participation in these markets in adverse movements. It's up to us to make the best of it. Our internal macroeconomic framework is such that, by reducing wages and pensions, we have in some way had a restrictive effect on aggregate demand. But as I mentioned, the data for the last month or two show that people spend their savings on future strategic procurement and that people expect a better one. These expectations are very important. We will statistically have a reduction in personal consumption and state spending, but we expect investment to grow and we expect export growth. It will be the main generators of growth in the next period. The moment we start to achieve positive effects in other fields and by removing structural problems from the past we attract new investors who will not only buy the market in Serbia, as the cement producers, tobacco and other products bought it, and they will not only buy monopoly chains, as did retail customers and others, but they will use our comparative advantage to go out to regional and world markets with products that have been made largely or entirely in Serbia, then we will enter a new orbit of possible development. Therefore, most of the countries in our environment began to make a real improvement and improvement in growth and development when it managed to attract foreign direct investment aimed at achieving and confirming competition in the world. These aren't phrases. This just means that it is crucial for us to organise ourselves, both parliament and government, to use all the resources and potential we have, from the IPA funds to the possibility of joining innovation initiatives and all other possible sources of growth, to valorize it in the best possible way and within the shortest possible time, to attract investments that are just going to use a comparative advantage of Serbia, to create niches that will valorize our advantages and increase our participation in exports and in the world. We already have positive effects of measures so far. So far, not only international financial institutions have expressed themselves very positive about our measures, which are looking very conservatively at it, but also individual governments, analysts, many institutions that objectively view things in the world. I think it's a crucial thing if we believe in our program and implement it, as we do, if we believe in turning these trends, as we seem, we do -- then the rest of the world will believe it. It's important for the people to see the way out of the tunnel, it's important to see the light at that exit, it's important to see the possibility of progress. Serbia still produces significantly less than its potential social product. We can strategically target investment and end projects that are important to increase our potential in the coming years. Even with conservative estimates, the IMF and we agree that the minimum growth rates expected in 2016 and 2017 are 1.5%, 2% and more. If part of the investment we are planning is realized, if that part of our construction operation and industry is activated, which can be activated and brought into a state of competitiveness, then we can expect an important improvement in the dynamics of economic growth and catching steps with the world. These aren't phrases. As you can see, in many places, once a successful thing happens, there are successes. You here, of course, have your reasons for criticizing certain things, but regardless of the criticism, if you just look at the synergy that comes between the JAT status solution that has lived for years, with old planes, at a minimum level of functioning, to a situation where it turns into a successful business, if you look at only the indirect effect of that, on the value of the airport, you'll see what that synergy means. I am not advocating anything here, but partners who are talking about the possibility of concessions on Belgrade Airport have made it clear that the value of Belgrade Airport has increased five, six, seven times over the past year and a half. So these are improvements that we can expect in the world – in the price of real estate that are still depressed, in the price of land, in the price of everything we can achieve, concessions on the roads, concessions on airports. The sale of Telecom is a way for us to turn an activity that we are not currently using sufficiently efficiently into funds, which will allow us to complete investments that are under way, increase our potential and move forward. In order for that to happen, we must complete the reforms we have begun. It wasn't a phrase to solve the company's restructuring issue. Mr. Sertic is here, he'll tell you in detail, and he'll answer your questions if you have them. We are entering the final stage of this process and we need to make it clear to everyone that we are solving the problems that we inherited and that people who work in these companies will be looking for the opportunity to find a place that is on the market, which is competitive, which brings income, rather than sitting and expecting a minimum wage that comes directly or indirectly from the budget. Not only that, it's very important to get rid of the illusion of the past. As you know, with the restructuring companies, the privatisation agency's companies, there were over 600 companies at one point on the list, and the total value of the debt claims by these companies was over 6.5 billion, of which slightly less than half fell to the combined state. So, the state as such, the tax administration, municipal services, electricity, gas and everything else. Some people have counted all this and said that the state is looking for billions, and we say that the state and billions will be very happy to convert them either into property or just to give them to someone who will offer a way out, a program, an improvement, something that will offer these companies the opportunity to survive on the market, to keep some employees, to offer better economic growth. So all those questions that you're giving us from the position of unrealistic perception of reality, I'd ask you to reconsider your position and look at the overall effects. The state doesn't want to waste any of the only dinar resources available to us, but claims that stand for years and only grow, claims that are unrealistic and that don't offer a way out of the situation are not good. Let me give you an example. Everyone in the world is telling us that we should sit together and solve the MPL issue. The National Bank isn't here today, and we'll probably come along one day to talk to you about how best to solve it. In order for us to be able to solve this, everyone told us, people will, the MPL means the cost, and in order to settle it, someone has to accept the cost, one time so-called. A haircut to get out. Banks, businesses, creditors will accept it only if it clears the situation and offers a profit in the future. If their expectations are negative or zero, then the loss doesn't make sense, then it's better to keep their heads in the sand and hope that something will improve. We want it to change. We want this budget and this reform programme to be the basis for people to see the improvement and for this expected improvement to be established to recognise the cost of the past, to resolve it and to move forward. Finally, I just wanted to say a few notes about the structure of the budget. As I said, the social product will be 3,970 billion, and we expect that personal consumption due to all the elements that we have listed will fall just like state spending, that investments in fixed capital, exports of goods and services will grow. We've written concrete rates in budget reasoning. The bottom line is that we have an improvement both on the side of the fiscal deficit and on the external trade deficit, i.e. the balance of payments deficit. It's the only way that if we close those double deficits, we'll get on the path of sustainable growth. What's the contribution? Investment consumption will have a positive contribution and the external trade balance will have a positive contribution, but we expect those elements of the increase in social product that are not yet valorised, or evaluated, because we accept the conservative approach of our colleagues from international organisations. Most important of the world, we expect that despite all these trends and difficulties, we have a continuous decline in unemployment in the way it is measured, and several of these ways differ in the number that measures unemployment, but the trend in all of them is positive and it is very important. For me as finance minister, the most important thing is that we are on the path of strategic reduction of participation deficits, deficits in the social product by 2017. The country's deficit, this 191 billion deficit, since the social product is slightly less than 4,000, is about 5%. Wait a minute, please divide me 191 by 3.970, that's 4.8%, slightly more than 4.8% will be the budget deficit we're proposing today for the assembly debate. The deficit of the total state will be slightly larger, which, as I said, includes the effects, i.e. the deficit at the level of local self-government and the deficits of individual funds that are also part of the general government. The budget system and the way in which the budget is planned and expressed. This budget is one huge step towards programming. You in most of the budgets have shown programs and projects wherever possible. I'm still not even close to satisfied with the quality of programming budgeting, because for now it includes sharing costs where we have a base, but does not include a wider programming framework. For example, the Ministry of Health in the budget only generates part of the income for the health system and part relating mainly to investments. When you consider their expenditures, you don't see the context in which it will be applied, you don't see any homes of health, no hospitals, no improvements in performance. I expect we'll be able to do it next year. So, when we propose that the state in the budget finance some new scanner or some gamma knife or something else, let's see how this affects the quality of diagnostics, the improvement of treatment, the concrete comparative indicators of functioning of health homes in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad. We haven't gotten to that yet. That's the real point of programming budgeting and then seeing at the level of units that make sense of what costs are, how they come about and everything else. The same thing will have effects both in school and elsewhere. When we see schools spend funds, then we will be able to achieve real effects among them and improve performance, i.e. to know where to intervene, how many means to raise the quality of education and real income of people in education. That's one side. The other side of the budget process is to look at the Budgetary System Act together and see if we can raise the level of flexibility. So far, we have 5% flexibility, we increase it to 10%. This will allow for enough flexibility in the budget, for funds not to be such rigid appraisals and for funds to be moved, for some savings to be moved to places where the bottlenecks are. Of course, we'll suggest that in the course of the year, we strengthen the monitoring and control system, because the essence of getting more rights is also to accept more responsibility. Therefore, all budgetary users, by obtaining the right, to have more free resources, to make savings, and to use those savings where spending is the highest priority, to be responsible for what they do, to explain to Parliament and the Government what they did, how they did, that we know that this is how we achieve the results we want. Finally, it is very important that we look at this budget within a real three-year framework. One budget cannot be isolated from creation in 2016 and 2017, in this particular case. Secondly, it cannot be isolated from all the elements that we have to dynamically adapt. We expect that early next year, as soon as we get out of this tense calendar, we will return to defining the laws on local self-government and the financing of Vojvodina. This is something that has been waiting for a certain time, and I think that Parliament will be the right place to consider, not only those laws, but all the financial and fiscal consequences of these laws, so that we have one system that is just and sustainable and that will be able to raise the level of fiscal transparency and accountability throughout the country. Just for a little while on the laws, I've already mentioned some. So, the Budgetary System Act I have already mentioned, other laws, changes are mostly technical in order to enable the implementation of the Budget Law, i.e. the rebalancing seems not important. In the case of excise duties, we have to provide an extension of excise goods treatment for Petrochemy, yes, so these are certain fractions they use for their own production, otherwise they would be burdened with additional labour needs, which I don't think is the goal. So these are the items that would otherwise be the subject of refaction, yes, and therefore we wanted to extend the validity of that law until better and better solutions were found. Value added tax, change is minimal. We are merely excluding in accordance with international standards and obligations that we have accepted that IPA funds and other funds of a similar type that are a de facto gift are not charged by VAT, including our participation in the financing of IPA projects, so that VAT is not burdened because it is an integral part of these international conventions that we have already signed and that all countries respect. The Restitution Act, I call it that, in fact, it's a different name, it's a little different, it's just that enough deadlines to issue financial instruments that provide restitution so we don't burden our budget over the course of the three years. Notice, we are not proposing to change the deadlines for payment, but just to move the beginning. So, we accept that in a shorter period of three years, a shorter period, the depreciation of these instruments, the payment of interest and the rest, but we only suggest that the beginning move to buy ourselves a space for fiscal adjustments in 2015-2017. These are minor changes to the profit tax laws that allow for floods and similar separations of corporate tax exemptions. We will probably have a chance to talk deeper about all these laws and as part of fiscal laws at some other time. Since we have very many demands both international communities and associations of international investors, FIC and those that assess the quality of the business environment, to look together at fiscal and parafiscal burdens and see what we can do to unite, reduce the overall burden, especially the burden that is not rational, which actually reduces investment space, reduces space for potential, or to develop Serbia's potential, to create new jobs. Our analyses show that sometimes reducing some of the taxes that occur at the beginning or abolishing the reinvestment tax can return multiple times through increased economic activity and all the other taxes it carries. I just wanted to add in the end that we have three elements that have been talked about, which have been shown extremely explicitly. So one is a loan to the Deposit Insurance Agency of 200m euros. Credits received from the World Bank to fill in spent funds used to finance bank deposits which unfortunately went bankrupt. We have provided an additional 200m-euro credit line that is a stand-by line, the funds will not be withdrawn unless necessary. Therefore, it is a special type of credit that serves as a reserve if God doesn't let something happen to the Deposit Insurance Agency, they need additional funds to meet their obligations, it will be used. The World Bank has already been given, this is 200 million from the IBRD. So to be precise, the World Bank has already given and this is already available, and IBRD funds will be a "stend Bay" arrangement. I note, that you will soon receive a package of new laws relating to the system itself, the definition of deposits and the work of the Deposit Insurance Agency, and this will be an opportunity to consider the modified way, the mode of their business, or their work, within the amended Law on the National Bank of Serbia and the Banks Act which will otherwise define the monitoring of banks, the identification of risks and the assessment of these risks and the necessary measures to prevent or resolve the status of banks. The second $200m loan refers to "Srbigas", which are commitments previously agreed, which provide them with the necessary funds to finance an increase in gas reserves in the Banatski dvor and gas commitments from earlier years. The goal is to make this the last such ongoing support, meaning "Serbiagas". After that, he will solve everything from his resources, he will refund funds and maintain the level of his reserves at the level needed. Minister Antic can explain the details. Finally, we included "Er Serbia", 19.5 billion dinars of credit, which is about 162m euros, which is a takeover in the public debt of domestic obligations "Er Serbia" to free herself and enter into this arrangement that it has. So that's the same thing as I told you, that's what we have 3.3 billion in restructuring companies. Most countries in the world write off such an obligation in advance, and we write them off from case to case, or where it is necessary to convert it into property, or write off for the sake of achieving a higher social goal. Therefore, these are historical obligations, the JAT firm, which actually ceased to exist with the formation of Er Serbia, and this is the solution so-called "Er Serbia". "pregnant past" to open the space for a new functioning. I know it'll attract criticism, but there's nothing unusual about it. Most countries in the world are doing it, and they all do it the right way. It is very important for us that all these things be transparent and explained on our path of European integration as an integral part of our commitments taken in relation to the overall size, structure and way of using so-called. ‘State aid’. These are the basic topics I wanted to mention in the opening presentation. I want to point out once again that rebalancing is an attempt to save that we have already achieved, use in the best possible way. Part of those savings, a very small part, so that's one sixth or seven savings, used to pay back old debts, and thus enables a new start. And secondly, it's very important that we have a budget that changes some trends. Someone can call it a historical budget, it can be called, for me the most important thing is to change negative trends, turn expenditures to start stagnating and falling, turn revenues to grow, first on short-term measures, and then hopefully on the basis of deep reform, tax administrations and everyone, the work of the state. Thirdly very important, we are reducing the deficit along the path we have already planned, which leads us to a sustainable level of deficits and debt. This should be parallel to structural reforms that are also part of the agenda, to be the basis for Serbia's improvement, for getting out of these difficulties, for creating a basis for healthy, new, direct investment, for creating new jobs and valorising Serbia's position in the Balkans and in the wider environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16980	I thank Dr Dusan Vujovic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16981	Dear ministers, the respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues, will immediately say that the SPO and DHSS parliamentary club will support the proposed budget. Serbia is in a difficult economic situation because policy debts are inherited – we will easily. Reforms are difficult but for that we can thank the previous governments who did not want to implement them in time. Serbia's budget, the robbery of Burazer privatisations, the tycoon monopoly over all economic branches in the country, privileged business status that had businessmen close to the parties in power, the signing of international business contracts at the expense of Serbia, and even the creation of a money extraction channel under the patriotism firm. Today there is a consolidation budget in front of the MPs. It allows the deficit growth to be halted, provides the necessary savings on the dissipated side in order for the three-year consolidation process to be successful and to enter into the second phase of reforms, which means bringing public enterprises into line and completing the restructuring process. The budget does not ignore capital expenditure, which, at the same time as consolidation, seeks to maintain an investment cycle, i.e. the conditions for investment in infrastructure are created. At the same time, this budget plan is more transparent than it was before. The budget is carefully planned so that it is not too restrictive to preserve demand and economic activity. In all, this budget maintains a reform and investment course for economic policy. The Serbian Renewal Movement cannot be against economic policy, which is their necessity, however unpopular it is. Such a fiscal policy and reforms are now being supported by the most important international financial institutions, the IMF and the World Bank. There are no more parties in this House, no more MPs who are anti-European. Many efforts have been made on the way to the EU, and Western forces have started to think seriously about us only when we signed the Brussels Agreement. The application of this document is a condition of all conditions. The Serbian Renewal Movement believes that a foreign-political partnership policy, a respect in which the prime minister insists, must not be torn apart by the illusions of individuals outside the government, that the Kosovo issue can be resolved by another proposal, in a different way, as it risks being built up so far. Without the application of the Brussels Agreement, these reforms and sacrifices will be in vain. Only a built-up relationship of trust and partnership with Western forces creates the possibility of economic recovery, and Serbia needs investment from the West, donations, European funds. That is why the Serbian Renewal Movement supports the reform course that Serbia courageously set out in a policy of agreement with Europe when the most painful topics are at stake. In the last elections, taking part in the list Aleksandar Vukic – The future we believe in, the Serbian Renewal Movement, along with the Serbian Progressive Party, has promoted programme objectives that involve supporting the proposed reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16982	Thank you. The chief of Parliament's group, Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16983	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the debate is united, I will first speak about amending the 2014 Budget Law. I will speak as president of the minority parliamentary group SDA Sandzak – PDD. When it comes to the October rebalancing this year, I would like to congratulate the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, we see, from the last rebalancing in October, has saved some 40 billion dinars. It's a good step forward in the work of our government. However, I also have a concrete proposal. Given that these funds will be allocated to various ministries, I propose that 1% of these funds, which is 400 million dinars, will focus on the implementation of the government's programme of the Republic of Serbia to return the refugees and displaced Bosniaks from the Pribo municipality in the last decade. We, as Government in 2012 and 2013, built 22 new house for the return of these people and provided compensation for the reconstruction of over 50 houses. However, in this year's programme, which is still up-to-date, no single dinar has been singled out. We have two things, or we're going to work on that program, and if we want to work, then I suggest that 1% of the funds saved to finish this program. If the government adopts a further implementation of this programme, the state sends a clear message to its citizens that banishment and emigration will never happen again because of fear of life or threats to life because of different national, religious or other belongings, such as when there has been an eviction of Bosniaks in the municipality of Preboj in the last decade. By stopping funding this very important project, we send a completely opposite message to the citizens of Serbia. That is why I propose that only 1% be singled out from these savings and that this year continue to realise the initial programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As for the projected budget for 2015, from a minority point of view, if we look at the amount of funding foreseen in the budget for 2014, when there were 17 National Councils and now for 2015, when we have 20 elected and another one is expected to be chosen, it is seen that the funds have been significantly reduced. You will see for yourself that by reducing the resources for the work of the national councils of the national minorities and the Office for Human and Minority Rights, very small, negligible savings are achieved, and we have enormous damage on our European path. That's why I propose to increase the resources for the Human and Minority Rights Office by at least 100%. The second thing, when it comes to the minority issue in general, on May 5th of this year, the EU's High Enlargement Commissioner, Mr Stefan File, came to Serbia's assembly president and representatives of all parliamentary groups, and then in other state-level meetings, made it clear that the states of Serbia could adopt a national strategy to address the issue of national minorities. Looking at this budget, I see that no ministry that is in any way related to the resolution of minority issues provides adequate resources. As you know, the 2009 Government of Serbia regulation provides for the establishment of a Republic Council for National Minorities, however, when considering this budget and designing this budget, we see that the Council has not been held and that is one step backwards on our European path. The competent ministries, if we want to do a strategy and if we want to do something for minorities, then the competent ministries have to provide for funds in this budget. There's nothing we can do without our resources. In particular, let's look at how many at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government where there are mostly the highest number of issues related to minorities. What can the Minister of State Administration and local self-government do with about a million and 800 thousand dinars? Nothing. He can't help any minority in any of the municipalities. You know that all minority issues, starting with education, culture, language and letters, the highest number of issues being reached is being achieved through the Minority Act, including the Law on Local Self-Government, which has not yet been agreed, but I think the Minister, or the Minister of State Administration and the Local Self-Government, will come into a very unpleasant situation with such small resources for this work. I think if we want to achieve something, then we can predict for every municipality so much funds in that ministry. Secondly, it is necessary in the drafting of this budget to remain competent ministries, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior and other ministries that will be involved in the development or implementation of strategies to address the minority issue must provide for funds. If this projected budget does not provide for those funds, then I think we are going backwards and we are showing as a state, i.e. the proposer of this budget shows that there is no interest in doing anything for minorities. Let's start with the effective participation of minorities in public life. If we wish to bring the national composition of the population of municipalities into line with the number of employed representatives of minorities in the Ministry of Justice, then it would be necessary to provide for funds in this budget for the establishment of a judicial academy for the education of minority representatives for the work of the competent judicial authorities, because it is necessary to include an adequate number of minority representatives in the prosecution, in the judiciary and later in other judicial and other bodies related to the Ministry of Justice. Secondly, when working, funds must be provided for the work of the Police Academy, if we want to bring the national minority composition into line in their midst with the number of employees. I must draw attention to the fact that in areas, specifically in Sandzak, in the areas of judicial authorities and police, the two areas, as far as Bosniaks are concerned, are almost being implemented apartheid in those areas. It is similar in the Presevo Valley and in other areas where minorities live. It means that the Ministry of Justice must predict, if we want to do something, if we want to do this strategy that awaits us, a minority strategy, we must also provide funds at the Ministry of Justice for the Justice Academy and the Ministry of Police Education and the Ministry of Culture for the Application of the Law on Information in the Languages of National Minorities and the Ministry of Local Self-Government for the Effective Participation of Bosniaks in Public Life, i.e. to apply the Law on Equal Use of Minority Language and Letters at the level of these municipalities. Without those funds, it's an empty story, as I heard on the board this morning, that after the adoption of the budget we meet either in January and February, we tell empty stories without funds. So, if we want to achieve an effect, if we want to take a step towards the EU, we need to approach the development of a national strategy to address the minority issue in Serbia. Once again, for those who were not particularly interested in having officially 20 registered national councils in Serbia, and yet a number of minorities who did not establish national councils. It means there's a lot more minorities. Why am I stressing this and why am I binding to the departments of power? We can best illustrate this through the fact that in 90% of cases, minorities live in underdeveloped municipalities of Serbia, which means that the most vulnerable population in Serbia are citizens living in underdeveloped areas, and unfortunately, minorities live in these areas. That is why I call on the legislator and the competent ministers to adopt the appropriate means in their proposal for their ministries so that we can do anything in those environments. When I was talking about budget rebalancing, i.e. amending and supplementing the Savings Act, which has been saved in the last three, four months, it is necessary to start a minority programme that opens their doors in Europe to return to the refugees, it is necessary to invest in the travel infrastructure of at least 100 million dinars, to enable these refugees, to give them hope that they can live in their homes that we, as Government, have made them, and those who want to return, and live in New Zealand or in Los Angeles or between those two cities, there is a chance that the state of Serbia wants to allow them sustainable returns and survival. It's a similar thing to using language and letters for all minorities. It's a similar thing to applying the Minority Language Education Act, printing textbooks, training staff, etc. It's the same thing about all other areas that minorities are interested in. Once again, I propose to the Government, or the Prime Minister, that, before the vote for this budget is passed, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the competent six ministers in accordance with this adopted regulation, we hold a meeting of all legitimately elected representatives of minorities with the prime minister and the competent ministers and to make certain adjustments to this budget if you want us to join the strategy and the practical implementation of the strategy for resolving the minority issue in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16984	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16985	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Chairman, friends and comrades, is ahead of us with the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. I, fully aware of the difficult situation in which the state is, will only give a few basic notes that are already visible, which I think I can help make this budget something better. I would begin my presentation to the findings, as always, that the crisis in Serbia is not economic but is necessarily political. The political crisis in Serbia has been going on for many years because the Republic of Serbia and the most responsible people in it are not ready to face the facts of the political fragileness of the system, as well as in certain elements of the unsustainability of such a political system. I'm going to elaborate that on the budget itself. First, let's see a few assumptions on which this budget is based. The first thing is that the budget, in itself, is based on the fact that the euro course is 119 dinars, which is already not true. Already the euro is over 120 dinars. The inflation rate for 2015 is projected, which I wonder - whether it will be realistic or whether part of the growth rate will flow into inflation due to the rise in import prices and credit obligations. The decline in gross domestic product of 0.5% was predicted, which is very optimistic, given the trends in 2014. Profits in the public sector are frozen, and this can sound good to someone who is less understanding in the economy, but the reduction of demand for profit cuts causes a drop in budget revenues and the basis for paying social contributions. The rise in unemployment from 17.6% to 21.3%, hence the planned reduction of public sector employees of 2.5%, is a very interesting thing, since the budget itself already envisions a flat-rate reduction of 2.5% in public sector employees and money for their salaries is not already planned for the budget. At the same time, it is not known how this number, or the percentage of employees, or anything like that, will be achieved and achieved. This reduction should be realised by 30 June under the State Administration Decision. It's obvious that nobody but the minister knows how it's going to happen right now. I ask the question - why is that? Why does that 2.5% of government employees not know what will happen to their fates, although it is clear that they are no longer on this country's payroll. We have a public debt situation, which is currently 22.2 billion euros or 70% of gross national income, 70% of gross national income, although legally 45% is the legal participation of public debt in gross national income. It is clear that in 2015 this percentage will grow and will go to 80%. I will remind you that the average is 60%, and that when Greece crossed 100% of the problems it was in, when it reached 120% was practically bankrupt, but I have one question – Serbia is not Greece. Greece is an EU member, she had someone to help her. Serbia has no one to help, and then we will be in a position to sell out the little resources left in Serbia. On the other hand, the budget deficit of 191 billion dinars or 8% of gross national income is a record budget deficit. It was never that much of a budget deficit. Someone will, of course, say, right now, that maybe that deficit, since it's shown in this budget, which we've had a chance to see, 159 billion dinars, not like I just said 191 billion. However, one who says that everything is clearly written in this draft budget knows very well the other part of the story that won't tell, which is the easiest thing to hide in a large number of sides and that it is the easiest thing to hide the fact that, let's say, an additional to 192 means 33 billion dinars is in footnote. Two hundred fifty million euros are in footnote, and these are expenditures that go to losers, so "Gallenika", on "Serbiagas", etc., etc. Half of the current budget, which is now planned here, will go to debt payments, half of it. So half of the budget is in the past. That half of the budget clearly states that we must be in charge of that half of the budget and another two billion in order to be able to essentially close what is considered this budget. Of course, I would say a few words about the financing of the AP Vojvodina, because in recent years, from 2006 to 2014, not respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by all governments, so far, the AP Vojvodina, which should have a minimum budget of 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, has been denied by not fulfilling that constitutional obligation for over a billion euros, by over a billion euros. The aggregate bill moved about 130, 145 billion dinars last year, and now it's over 150 billion dinars, and if we count the euro by 122, that's about 641 euros per citizen of the AP Vojvodina. So, the Republic of Serbia owes so much to its native AP Vojvodina under its own constitution, where the Constitutional Court has never announced it. That, I remind you, is so much money that it would be enough to build a sewer in more than 400 Vojvodina places where it is missing, that it would be enough to employ 200,000 unemployed people in Vojvodina, if we count one job 5,000 euros, which would be enough for Vojvodina to buy the oil industry of Serbia on its own, i.e.. Duke oil, twice. Now I ask the question – if Serbia does not respect its own laws and its own constitution, then how does it think that anyone understands it as a legal state, as a state of law, which will stick to what it has imposed on itself by the Constitution? Another thing should not be forgotten, that in that part of the budget, which is foreseen for the AP Vojvodina, it is fairly arbitraryly interpreted as not 7% of the total revenues, but from the amount of tax revenues, thus reducing the amount that the province's budget should be. I'll remind you that out of that amount, of 62.3 billion dinars, 33.8 billion are transfer funds. Transfer funds mean that they only pass without any influence of the Vojvodina administration on them, salaries are paid to doctors, teaching staff, etc., budget users. So, it can't be treated essentially as part of the budget, because the Dukean administration serves as a post office counter. What is really available is 27,5 billion dinars, and the 27.5 billion dinars are less than money is needed, the 33 billion, to cover the debt of losers in Serbia. Such a relationship between the Republic of Serbia and Vojvodina is that more salaries by the loss of the company than by the AP Vojvodina, which, by the way, because of the tragic floods that we witnessed this year, the agrarian in Vojvodina drew gross national income, while the allocations for subsidies were reduced to 10%. So, the AP Vojvodina with its resources is the only thing that has recorded the growth of production and contribution to the GDP, and now we have the situation that this same gross national income, which should help the development of the economy through its instruments, does not invest in the only thing that has growth, which is agriculture. The duke couple pulled this country out and no one else did. That's what has to be said clearly and loudly, and that's why I'm asking the question, all this is nice and wonderful, but why is it taken away from the duchess, why is it taken away from the teachers who strike today, why is it taken away from all these people? And why doesn't anyone think about having budget users that nobody cares about, in the sense that they just spend new ones and don't account for anyone? Who would that be? Church. The church, because, don't forget, the church is out of the country's fiscal system. The church is outside the fiscal system, churches, and most of all the Serbian Orthodox Church, a huge property was returned in real estate, etc. I ask the question – why doesn't the church pay the tax? Why doesn't he pay his property tax, but that's what everybody else should do? If political parties can save, if pensioners can save, if everyone can save, then so can the church. On the other hand, which is why the only thing we haven't heard a word about is the question of a mine rent. I'll remind you, the mining rent charged to NIS is 3% on oil and gas. At the same time, the legal obligation is to be 7%, and in the environment is between 10% and 20%. It's 17% in Russia. And all of this was justified that, I don't know, Russia in the Security Council would block Kosovo's independence, and that at the same time as the southern flow passes through Serbia, it would all be returned in the long run. None of that happened. Nothing happened, because it can write whatever you want in the Constitution, when I have to go to some part of my territory with a passport, that part is not my territory. And it's a very clear and notorious fact. On the other hand, Russian President Vladimir Putin himself called for Kosovo's independence as an example, why can Crimea be left alone in an independent state? And that's the whole story. That's why I'm asking the question - why aren't we talking about the mine? Why don't we talk about cutting off the middleman when we're buying gas? A few years ago, there was talk about it. What are gas brokers for, when Serbia buys gas from Russia, in conditions where it costs this country between 18m and 20m euros a year, and these intermediaries serve nothing? Not to serve anything, says the fact that from 2000 to 2007 there were no intermediaries and everything worked. And during the government of Kostunica, Dr Vojislav, this was, of course, returned so that for some political reasons, the taxpayers' money could be taken back. Because at the end of the day, someone pays. That's why I think the value of Telecom is mentioned here, the EPS, etc., that unless it goes into serious political changes, and political changes are above all, to realize that as long as pensions are part of the budget, the budget will have a deficit, a point. It can't be any different. Who's interested in not solving the pension fund issue? Who's interested in, for example, in the sale of Telecom doesn't put all of it in that fund and pensions are paid out of that fund and the budget is disbursed? Why? Because that moment with the existence of the Fund of many banking institutions where the fingers have a number of influential people and a number of politicians in this country, and banking institutions could no longer green with interest, as is the case now. This country's banking system wasn't accidentally destroyed, but it was deliberately done, so if you noticed from this party that was no longer in parliament, they were governors of the National Bank who were trying to destroy and poison every trace of banking in this country. And now I'm asking you, if it doesn't start with that, do you really think something systemically is going to change? The next budget, 2016, will owe Serbia even more. The next budget will raise the foreign debt to 80%, to 90%. The next budget will continue all these trends, but it won't solve anything. That's why I'm calling you, the LSV has submitted six amendments. Look at those amendments. They were done in good faith, with the intention of helping this country understand, that without clean bills, without pure accounting, without, say, the Office of Statistics of Vojvodina, because I will distract you, we have a constant problem with what the duchy budget is. What are the original revenues in Vojvodina? And the thing is simple. They can be very clearly identified, written and made a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. And solve that question once and for all. Why is this not done, why certain structures, the same structures that the Galenika losers have loaded on the back of all the people in this country, who are untouchable for political reasons. To all of them, it is appropriate for the AP Vojvodina to be in unsettled status and to serve exclusively political procedures, not to serve citizens usefully in one part of RS territory. There's the whole story. Why is it hard to say that the original incomes of the province, for example, the income tax of employees resident in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the income tax of a taxpayer who has a seat and who have a significant business interest in the territory of Vojvodina, why is it difficult to say that the revenues from the fees for the use of mineral raw materials and geothermal resources belong to the AP Vojvodina? Because that moment when it would happen, the possibility of everything being pushed into this thick bookshop where nothing can be seen would be much clearer, and unfortunately, the political structures in this country are afraid. I hope warmly, that this government will get the strength to skip itself and realize that it is high time to stop harmful practice, as it has been so far, to fill the budget with sales and loans, to realize that without clean bills there will be no long love. To realize that there can be no one above the state and society, nor that at times when we need total solidarity, all that there is anyone, whether these are political parties, whether these churches, which can not carry their share of the burden, can no one who is apriorally exempt from profit tax, can there be no one who will not comply with their qualifications and with his work be paid justly. It can't exist. That is why, the PIO fund that would be formed, is the only way to get Serbia out of the problem that will be transferred from the budget to the budget. But it's a political decision and that's why I'm telling you, the political crisis of Serbia is what is the essence, not the story of the economic crisis. The economic crisis is resolved. Other countries were in economic crises too, so they got away with it, only Serbia is in the mire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16986	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16987	There are a few things I've heard from Mr. Chunk that I agree with and a few things I disagree with. The first thing I don't think is standing, we recorded a significant increase in VAT collection in December, so we can't even talk about reducing the aggregate demand. So it cannot be said that the effects of this budget and everything the government has done will create some catastrophic effect on the budget, according to the Marko economic stability of the Republic of Serbia. As for the reduction in the number of employees in the public sector, I think we're all aware that it's the staff we've all hired, some more, some less, but we know that it's been most employed since 2008-2012, that's what statistics show. It doesn't have anyone to claim it one way or another, it shows up in all numbers. We've succeeded, I can tell you about the MUP, that almost 700 people are reduced from April to today, mostly by people who went through a natural outflow, people who have gone in different ways, without any major earthquakes. I'm talking about the security sector, which is always sensitive, in every country. We are trying to find ways to reduce the burden on all citizens of Serbia, including those people living in Vojvodina, because they pay often to that party staff who, I say, let's be that we've all hired him and we're trying to do it in a way that doesn't put the stress in society. On the other hand, only in the last few months has Frezenius medically opened in Vrsac - 439 new jobs "Fles Calcedonia" in Apatino - 203 new places, in Ruma - "Adriana Teks" - 264 new jobs, "Svarovski" in Sutotica - 600 new jobs. So, the government is trying, and this is just part of it, I haven't listed everything there is, that by investing in every part of my country, it increases our employment, we try to make private companies the sound basis of the economy. We try to create a completely different and healthier society. As for the thing we agree on, you said that one large part of the budget burden for the next year was the repayment of debts from the past. I couldn't agree more. But how did that happen? It's a thing we can't avoid. When the debts from the past are mentioned, when they come to collect, we must remember how these debts came to be. When we mention from what is usually below the line when it's working in the budget, when it doesn't always appear transparently in every budget backwards, what we haven't been able to see clearly for years, it was bank debts, for example, that were broken. I speak the language of the people, robbed and destroyed, from having had the Development Bank of Vojvodina, the Serbian Bank, Agrobank, the Universal Bank, which created so many debts for the Republic of Serbia that today all citizens, who did not make neither SNS nor this Government, and I am confident that neither you, nor the party you are leading, will support criminals and thieves. I'm sure of it. I hope you don't deny me in your political activity. The people we check from the Capital Investment Fund AP Vojvodina, the Regional Secretariat of Science and Technological Development, the Fund for the Development of the AP Vojvodina, the establishment of the "Tesla Bank" in Zagreb, which cost more than 25 million dinars of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what we have established, I will not enter into details, since we are doing so together with the prosecution and, ultimately, it will be in courts... All of what we were doing on the cases in Novi Sad, the last case with the City Building Institute, where the factual citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course Vojvodina and Novi Sad, were damaged by four million euros, where former director of the City Building Institute, Borislav Novakovic and Mirjana Dejanovic, former assistant director, suspected, or there are reasonable doubts that they committed a criminal act of abuse of official office in such a way that they were contrary to the Commission's report, first Novakovic made a decision recognising the qualification of "Borovici transport" by law, and then in the first phase of the restrictive procedure, Mirjana Dejanovic issued orders to the services to prepare such documentation, in advance knowing that it was not in accordance with the law. Finally, in the second phase of the restrictive procedure, they concluded two contracts with the said legal person and damaged the city of Novi Sad, more than 4m euros in the population of Vojvodina. Such things, which were happening, and when you said "Gallenika", for "Gallenika" to say, in part, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime launched in 2013 the first stage of action when several assistants and directors were arrested, so I don't list all the names now because there are more people. We expanded the investigation and had new evidence and a few months ago we arrested another group of people for similar abuses at Galennica. This has caused such damage to the RS that this government has to strain itself from the stained veins in order to only recover huge debts based on the destruction that has taken place in our country, and of course the governments have been in debt. Governments were in debt irresponsiblely acting in 2008 and 2009 when they did not predict that the crisis or, as the public then informed, that the crisis would pass Serbia and that we would still profit, and then in 2009 on the case of my ministry, which is what we say and repay one part of the debt since then, a decision was made to cut all positions by 26% linearly. At one point, the Ministry did not pay its telecommunications and electricity bills neatly until 2011 or 2012. There's been a huge debt, and we've now found ways to recover about a billion dinars of that debt from a part of the funds we've saved, which are not realised, but with the help of the Ministry of Finance. That'll be a big score for the M.O.P. As far as everything else is concerned, I agree, we've increased the excise duty on oil measures that the state is carrying out in a smart way and especially after the decision to move forward with oil and gas markings, which in a good way have been largely curbed by smuggling and I can also tell you that we've greatly increased excise duties, among other things, and because of the fight against tobacco smuggling. In the last 20 days alone, almost 15 tonnes of illegal tobacco have been caught in the territory of the municipalities of Sabac, Sremska Mitrovica and Ruma. We're doing detailed financial investigations that should, of course, not only lead to arrests, because it's not our goal, and I'm glad that everything we've done since I've been Home Secretary, no person has been cleared of charges that file criminal charges and charges brought by the prosecution. So this job was done well by police. I expect you as the leader of one of the parties, the regional parties from the AP Vojvodina to help us by not supporting criminals, wherever they are, no matter which party they are from, that you will show that your party wants to really fight for the interests of those citizens that it represents, and not those who are in my opinion, and that is the political position, my political position, someone who has had the opportunity to run Vojvodina with such or such funds for years, and that during that time the Dukes are becoming increasingly poor. Then where's the morale? Then why do you say - I can't do it better, I can't do it? No, you stay in that place at all costs. If that's the way to run politics, it can be, but I don't think it deserves the support of people living in Vojvodina. After all, they do so in the elections and show more than clearly. That's why we don't have a new election in Vojvodina, because such a will would make the citizens of Vojvodina clear and show up and show up. Whether it's going to show up in a month, six or months, it doesn't matter. She'll be clear. People in Vojvodina want to live better. These measures by the government show that the government is clearly fighting corruption and crime, that it is trying to save in a difficult situation, which the rebalancing has shown, because we saved money through rebalancing, we have returned money to the state. It's the first time in years that such a thing happens. In the 2015 budget when the IMF, we had the opportunity to have an IMF representative at the government's meeting in Belgrade and to talk about the measures the government is taking, when the IMF people said that the measures the state is taking are serious and responsible, it is one of the best guarantees that we are on track to recover our economy. That's why when we talk here I want to talk to those people who are responsible, of course, the finance minister first, but I also want to be a member of the government to participate in this debate, I want the support of those people who think this country should help, that we need to help us move faster forward, that we need to help heal our economy. To stop being on state mangers, not to complain when we cut the political parties 35% of the income, as we have reduced, but to say -- that's a good measure. That's a good measure that shows - let's cut down the most. The party I belong to, the SNS lost the most then and that's fine. The burden that exists in society needs to be shared, and that's why we have to work together. That's why I expect your support, too, I don't know if it's realistic to say, to the budget because you're an opposition party, but your support for government reforms, what we do, especially the fight against corruption and crime, since I'm sure you can already see that there are a lot of things that at least, that I don't present a more difficult qualification, are not in line with the law and that they remind a lot of serious corrupt acts. Of course, the police and the D.A. will try to make it all bright, to show that we're right when we talk about it. Of course, the courts will, as in any normal country, judge what it is and how it is, but I'm sure you can't think it's normal to set up tenders and forge IDs and take money from citizens, and you say, for example, that someone says they support such power. I'm absolutely sure no one honest or moral can do it. Not anymore, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16988	I thank Dr Stefanovic. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16989	I thank you for a lot of concrete comments, suggestions, questions, etc. I think some questions require a much deeper discussion and a lot of, say, a different format. I have announced that as soon as this cycle is over, we will return to the definition of the law, namely the conclusion of the Law on Local Self-Government and the financing of Vojvodina. I think it will be the right place and a way to look at all these things calmly and I would like to put it in the context of some international standards, even if those professional ones I have seen, which are successful, where they are done parallelly, not only financing, but also advocating and obligations and rights, therefore, to find a model that will open it in Serbia in a real and transparent way. It's a debate that still takes a little more time, I wouldn't be getting into those details right now. If you'll excuse me, just a few adjustments that I think are very important. We will adopt a fiscal strategy in the government within a few days and deliver the document to all interested institutions, including the Serbian Assembly, and it will be a public document. I just want to mention one thing, this is very important, according to our latest projections, we expect that, given the savings already achieved, given the deficits we are planning here, we expect the debt to reach maximum somewhere in the third, fourth quarter of 2016, and for 2016, the average to be 77.5% of the social product and to fall to 76.9 in 2017. So that's our plan and that's how we define sustainable fiscal consolidation. This is our goal, and this is included in all the elements, it can't simply be calculated because this reduction in the deficits that we mentioned today is 1%, but it contributes to the less need for borrowing. Refunding that will reduce interest, also reduces that share from 130 billion to a lower amount. We took a rather complex model to track everything. Our projection, which everyone agrees with, is that at the end of 2016, if we achieve everything as planned in the fiscal strategy, we will hit that ceiling and start falling with the participation of debt in the social product. Of course there are risks, of course there are elements that we can't control, but the consistency of these figures that we have something that we want to suggest to everyone and show and to be the basis for some discussion. Our projections are a little bit better. It is true that 45% of our law has been written in our law, it is true that they told us a long time ago that 45% is our ceiling in law. However, I think the key parameters have already changed, Serbia is already falling debt price. As a mastrix is 60%, so Serbia will probably have to adjust those parameters of the law, because they include not only the level of debt but also the manual of debt and interest and together it gives some number. That number is dependent on all the elements that enter it. I think it would be mature to look at what the figure is, that is, for me, it's essential that we actually have a discussion that's a deadline within which we want to reach the level of the mastrix, somewhere at the moment of expected membership in the EU. As for the deficit, there's no dilemma. You're absolutely right, the real deficit we're proposing is 191 billion. It's in my calculations, since the social product is 3.970, it's 4.8%. There's no dilemma, I said that number, a colleague checked when I was talking. So 4.8%, but that's not comparable to the number we gave last year, because that number didn't include guarantees that were realised. To be very precise, the guarantees on the front of the budget, there's some kind of fus note there, but on the first side of the budget there's 30 plus two billion. To be exact, the fus note should say the following, that this refers to, most of it, 25 billion of it applies to old guarantees, only five billion guarantees issued to "Srbigas" in 2014. The rest refers to guarantees from previous periods to be activated in the next period. These are -- "Serbigas" earlier guarantees 14 billion, "The Railway", 5.1 billion, "Smederevo", 3.2 billion, "Gallenika", which you mention, two billion and JAT, the old JAT, not ER Serbia, the old JAT 1.2 billion, together 30.5 billion. That's the number. We open it up inside, most of these things we couldn't avoid. I suggest we make a turn, that such guarantees that are a waste of money essentially, we just put out a bill that we actually have to pay, it's not good, and we have to stop it in the future. So there's room to discuss how to do it. I think we'll be exposed to pressures over the years, but we want to keep this budget from allowing these pressures, so there are no more liquidity guarantees, or current business. This Vojvodina thing, I think we should talk about in a broader context. The figures we have are slightly different in the budget here, 34.7 billion is our number. Probably, as everyone else, pays in education and everything else, they think, and we're a flow water heater. The state's huge assets are going through the budget as a flow water heater. I suppose it's a similar relationship to Vojvodina. It can probably be managed actively, but it requires a different performance-based budget system. My colleagues tell me in the case of a church, churches pay taxes on property, except for one directly used for worship, even then, if one is issued for more than 183 days. Whether it's true or not, we can check and answer in writing, but I think it's okay for everyone to pay and everyone to have equal treatment. The principle I think is acceptable, whether in a given situation, whether or not all this fits, it's the fact that we're going to check it out and let you know. As for all the other elements, I want to say next. The subject of a discussion on the rational management of natural resources in a broader sense, and after that, and in every specific sector, is something that we are very serious about. This is not easy to reverse because some things are agreed within some broader arrangements that were not transparent enough. I certainly know that the prime minister asked this as an open question in talks with the NIS, i.e. talks with Gasporom, the main owner. Which solutions are possible, etc., that's something we'll probably have to let you know when we see how the situation develops. Right now, I don't know what's going on, or what's going on. I think the Prime Minister will be very prepared to answer that. I also agree that there are a whole series of things where we can better schedule incomes. I just want to say that, according to our income tax data, that 10% is distributed in proportion to 18% in Vojvodina, 80% of the local and only 2% in Serbia. Most of it, 98% stays in Vojvodina, but the place takes a groat. It's something you might need to check, it's our formula. It's differentiated towards cities, according to local administration, but I think the rules are pretty transparent. As far as getting it, our information is that 42.7% of profits remain in Vojvodina. It's something to consider as a fact. As for your amendments, we'll look at them and we'll have a chance to discuss the specific amendments individually the day after tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16990	I thank Dr. Vujovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16991	First I'm going to relate to this discussion, and then I'm going to answer to the MP of the Ugljan. Unfortunately, he's not in the O.R. right now, but the application mechanism hasn't put me in before. First, when it comes to fiscal decentralisation, which is one important measure that we must turn to in the next period as part of the overall reform of public administration, major radical changes in the way of funding local self-government and the province in 2015 cannot be done, because in 2015, a strong fiscal consolidation is already being done and it is very important and we need to be able to have the instruments that we have in the most predictable way possible. On the other hand, the fact is that the distribution of competences and sources of funding between the Republic, provinces and local self-government in Serbia is a very complex problem that we have not dealt with so far. He was highly politicized, and every time he broke over his knee, big damage was done. This time, the draft public administration reform action plan in Serbia predicts that during 2015, careful analysis of the problem and discussion is being carried out and to come, perhaps not at the end of 2015, but also early in 2016 to the social consensus, with measures that we can take and how we can take this complicated node, which we admit is not well solved in Serbia, and is not well solved because, as I say, it was highly politicised in one environment where party interests were more important than correcting mistakes and again hasty or highly politicised measures from the previous period, from the 1990s, it was not done in the best interests and financial control and the right to self-government and optimal respect for the principles of subsidiarity, all things have not been done properly and we will not correct it overnight. We have 2015 and part of 2016 to make this reform careful and in one broad dialogue of our entire society. Meanwhile, the highest priority is this fiscal consolidation, in which for the first time the expenditure side of the budget is seriously changed, in terms of permanent and structural terms, which means that we are changing the way things are going to work. So far, there have been multiple cost cuts on the bulky side, mostly material, and ultimately capital expenditures. So, we've been protecting consumption today at the expense of growth and the possibility that people are hiring and that we actually have more production, and thus more consumption tomorrow in all the budgets so far. Then when there was more investment, it was done at the expense of the privatization revenues in the smaller part, and a good portion of the privatisation revenues went back to spending in all previous years. This is one responsible budget, in which we say for the first time – no, we have to really wonder now what the state we want and we have to work and what is it and how effective it is? The question has been raised on the basis of which we will actually come up with the real reorganisation of the state, i.e. the reduction and surplus employees it now has. At this point I can announce, and that is clear in the action plan, whose draft has already been discussed, the essence of this part of the draft has not changed at all and it is already back on the web site and it can be introduced to the public, and not only to get to know, but also to participate in the discussion of how we think we are doing it. The point is, there are two stages. So this first phase is primarily focused on fiscal consolidation and on the most obvious surpluses. The precise programme of rationalising these most obvious surpluses will work not only for the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, but for not only for the government of Serbia, but for every institution that employs workers to reassess, to connect with their portfolio, and then for the support of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government to come to an understanding of exactly where they are, I say, the most advanced jobs or where there was most of the employment without any real basis and without producing a positive effect on the work of the state. Because the most important goal for us is not only to reduce consumption, it would be easy, it could be done by a simple linear reduction in number wherever it didn't go with enough natural spillage. However, we do not want to go purely linearly, precisely because we want to reward, that is, those who took care of productivity, that they behave domestically, and that on the other hand we identify those institutions that have either been non-domestic or simply haven't adapted to the needs of a new time, here for 15 years. At that first stage, the focus is, as I say, on a smaller reduction, on a smaller reorganisation, on obvious surpluses, but in the next year, we go in line and prepare for a whole period that is coming up from three years, how much we have to carry out this first phase of the public administration reform strategy, to really examine the sector deeply by sector, whether it meets what this country requires and what we need to do to get into the 21st century and the European Union as a modern state. This phase will not necessarily lead to a reduction of employees. There are also institutions and jobs that miss people and especially qualified personnel. So the essence of the work that is now ahead of us is, above all, the creation of a different, more modern and far more effective state to support economic growth, not to use the state for complementary social policy. Social policy must be guided by social policy instruments, which the budget also envisions and which this budget protects. A detailed rationalisation plan is still under way and will be developed in time to realise the goal set in this budget and to which we have committed, which is to reduce the staff's budget by 30 June 2015. Why haven't we done it yet? I'd like to draw attention to the incredible extent of how little was done, analyzed, prepared, known to us about our country itself, as we inherited from the previous governments. It's obvious no one's ever done that. It was necessary to start from zero, to fix the end of the register that the previous government had dealt with, but which was not yet reliable enough. A real register, making reliable figures, like the state's most modern states relying on electronic administration, we'll only have two years from now. It will take that long to prepare the legal framework and prepare the information framework so that we have the right basis and registers of citizens and employees and institutions properly. So, they will start to be established after the legal framework is established in 2015/2016. A year. However, we already have enough data and we will strengthen the register of employees at the Ministry of Finance in 2015, in a way that we can identify well enough where surpluses are and where the problems are and who does not respect the regulations that we will bring in line with the plan of rationalising the entire public administration during the first quarter, by the end of the first quarter of 2015. Furthermore, I would like to answer to the MP Ugljanin that spending on improving the status and exercise of the rights of national minorities in Serbia is not within the department of state administration and local self-government, nor is it in our jurisdiction. That is the jurisdiction, and therefore the funds, are allocated in the budget at the Human and Minority Rights Office at the Serbian government. The office and its budget amount to 470 million dinars this year, and the division for the national minorities is 286. Since the MP is not here right now, I will not continue to develop this topic, but just to point out that these funds are strictly focused on, to say the addition of the rights of these national minorities in four areas, which are their constitutional jurisdiction. However, national minorities, like all Serbian citizens, realise their interests and their needs through the work of the entire government, and in this sense, MP Ugljanin rightly referred to the problem that a large part of the problem in the status of national minorities in Serbia is that they are inhabited in the regional least developed parts of Serbia. There are both national minorities and the majority population, both Serbs and all others. Work to improve regional development and bring it into line is one of the most complex economic tasks any country has, especially when there is such a huge difference in the level of development that we have in Serbia. It is true that the work and investment on regional development, as well as in all sections, i.e. in spending all ministries dealing with issues of particular interest for national minorities, is spent very serious budgets which are, in fact, the main means to improve the status of members of national minorities, as well as of all citizens in Serbia. These funds that I mentioned, related to the activities of the Office for Human and Minority Rights, are specifically directed towards complementary and specific programmes, which we believe we must develop and need to develop. Just to mention that it is being prepared under Chapter 23 of the EU, one of the planned activities is the Action Plan to improve the status of national minorities in Serbia, which will more precisely and more specifically define how these funds will be directed. At the same time, we need to draw attention to how these funds have not been audited so far and that this government will pay much more attention to this than it has done in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16992	I thank Minister Widowsky. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Nenad Canak, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16993	I'm sorry there's no minister of police here, just one thing to clarify. I really didn't speak for a moment about parties, if you noticed, but I was talking about the state of society. If I have to talk about the parties, I will remind you that the pension fund was abolished at the time of Slobodan Milosevic and that then pensions became a budgetary expenditure, and before that were serviced right from the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund. As for this problem with banks, mentioned by the minister of police, I am the first to insist that all these problems be resolved, that those who have violated the law be found at the face of justice and I have one single request – that, when researching all these things, first pay attention to the members of the League of Social Democrats who were in front of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina are delegated to do certain tasks of this type, because first we have to get rid of the mangupa in our ranks, and then everything else. As for Mr. Finance Minister, I would only have one question -- do you recognise, as a representative of the state, that the Republic of Serbia owes the AP to Vojvodina 150 billion dinars? Because it's a very important thing. I'm not saying that money needs to be paid right away – there's no money. I don't say anything like that. But if half of the budget is defined on the repayment of debts, is there a debt to the AP Vojvodina that came from the non-payment by the Constitution of the prescribed obligation? If that debt exists, it's enough just to make sure it exists. Because then the question is, what do we do next? I am not talking about it for some reason, but because it could solve the issue of unemployment in Vojvodina, which is extremely important for all of Serbia. So, I'm just asking you specifically -- does the state of Serbia acknowledge that the AP is a debt of 150 billion dinars under a member of the Constitution guaranteeing that the AP Vojvodina budget cannot be less than 7%? Since the transfer funds represent over half of the AP Vojvodina budget, the AP Vojvodina is put in a position each year to do the anti-cannon thing because it is also laid down by law that three weeks of budgets must be invested in capital investments, and that is impossible, since there is no money left at all for other things. So, the AP Vojvodina, by failing to comply with the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards it, has been placed in a position to break the law every year. I'm asking Mrs. Secretary of State. I'm interested in one thing. You keep talking about fiscal consolidation and saying that it is impossible unless there is centralised. Is that what you said about tools that can be done? Your words are – fiscal decentralisation is not possible, because we are working on fiscal consolidation, which insist on the instruments that we can implement. That's your word. So, I only ask that the finance minister answer me – does the Republic of Serbia owe AP to Vojvodina under the Constitution of 150 billion dinars? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16994	Thank you, Mr. Canak. People's MPs noticed, since you responded to the replicas of the three ministers, I gave you double the time. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16995	I can't exactly repeat the words I said, but I know what I was going to say, which is that we can't change instruments in the middle of fiscal consolidation. It's like changing horses in the middle of a race. We now have to with this system that we know of, whose instruments we know how we work, regardless of what is not necessarily ideal, the promotions can and must be, we now have to do that greatest blow. Careful, in the fiscal consolidation programme the first year is the strongest, later coming years that will go easier. So right now, the concentration has to be that we do this the way we plotted it, without the big earthquakes in the way we edit the state. You can't just throw all the balls away at once. Would it have been better if we'd done it right sooner? If you've done fiscal decentralisation properly in previous governments, so let's manage fiscal consolidation now -- very likely, very likely -- yes, if that fiscal decentralisation were to be done properly. One of the problems in Serbia is that you never know who's responsible for what decision. Each decision is distributed to a lot of players, not just beyond the level of jurisdiction, but within the same level and that's one big problem we have. That problem won't be solved overnight. And I'm going back to that -- it wouldn't be wise for this problem to be solved fundamentally, in the year that you fundamentally return this and this system to some more sustainable framework. So it's going to be complicated enough to do the rationalization we're talking about, and it's been hard with the other measures we've prepared. There will also be a focus on programmes for the reorganisation of large public enterprises, etc. It's working on an incredible lot of fronts, and that would be the opening of another front that wouldn't go to anyone's advantage. Nothing prevents us from thinking and preparing this year, because if you are willing and in opposition parties, and especially regional Vojvodina, we are really wondering how the system works better, it will not be a matter that will be resolved easily and designed overnight, because the entanglement we inherited is really very complex. We can't risk it, there won't be room for some measures to happen again, things that happened in the past, that suddenly we hit someone with means that don't actually know how to spend the most efficient way, without actually having to waste it or spend it the wrong way. So, the task is here, but the first task is fiscal consolidation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16996	I thank Mrs. Korri Udovicki, Deputy Prime Minister. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16997	I wish I could answer you directly and unequivocally. I suggested, between the lines, a process that would lead to some solution. So, in other words, immediately after the end of this process in January, we return to finalisation and adoption of the Vojvodina Funding Act, and in this part we consider a whole series of things that relate to each other and to the location of resources and to all the elements that enter into it. The result could be the answer to this question. That number I don't know exactly how you got it, but I'm sure the process can lead to a figure that's based on the law and acceptable to everyone. (Nenad Chanak, from the place: I ask for a debt to Vojvodina, does it exist? You see, when all the rules change. Yeah, I know, you see, there's a rule that agriculture has the right to a certain percentage and that the military has the right to a certain percentage and there's a whole series of things that don't add up to the whole because there are autonomous flows of others that threaten the entire sum. So I'm in charge of the entire budget. I want you to look at how it can be solved in the best way and convert that process. That's the most important thing. Whether it's 158 or not, I don't know how many you've said billions or some other number. So I'm telling you, it's being solved in the concept of being by the Constitution, but not the number, they can't be put in numbers when conditions change, you understand. If the key elements change. I said something that's very important, which is that it's working within a sustainable system it's called the revenue and the expeditions of arignments. So it's a proposal to transfer or share in incomes and debt in expenditures. It should be defined, agreed, and then it's a system that's sustainable. It's something we have to do in all the elements of the budget, and then we're going to have a situation where both the parts and the whole are consistent. So my proposal is that the solution, by passing the Law on the financing of Vojvodina, to finals and adoptions in the Assembly, the Law on Local Self-Government and all other system laws that matter to us, including the essential, systemic transition to programming, will be found a solution to all these issues at the same time. (Nenad Chanak, from the place: Is there a debt or is there no?) I can't say it's not my place to bid. So, this process next, Vojvodina will say in this process -- I needed so many funds to be located for these and those purposes, and someone would say yes, but those purposes were solved in another way and there were other problems in question and then there would be a solution. That's the point, that they both say what they think and that they're looking for a solution. (Nenad Chanak, from the place: We spoke according to the Constitution. I know, but the Constitution has many categories, there's a category of acquired rights where we always have a problem with what it means, you understand. Within these categories, we have to solve it. If there were absolute resources to solve absolute rights like that, then there would be no problem, but unfortunately there is no such thing, there is only one income from which one tax base from which all of this is solved. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16998	I thank the minister. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u16999	So, since there was a deficit here when it comes to pensions. The pension deficit cannot be paid, i.e. it cannot be resolved with one-time support for the budget, it cannot be sold by Telecom, it cannot be paid once. The relationship when pensions become our deficit, when we have a job drop. The only way to solve this problem is to increase employment and is to increase the number of insurance companies. There's no other way. We don't do anything else all the time but work to increase employment, which is what the figures really show. I'm proud to say that now there's a significant increase in the amount of money we get on the basis of registered workers, even in the pension fund, but it's not something that's going to end up in the course of one day. So we can't do it one time, we can't sell one company, we can only increase employment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17000	The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17001	Dear Vice President, honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the Budget Law for 2015 because we think this is the most important law of these 12 laws that are before us. The 2015 budget planned the deficit, as heard by the minister's minister, amounting to 191 billion dinars. We heard several times in today's day that this is the first budget where some expenditures were planned that were not planned until now in the previous years when it came to the budget, and these are the expenditures that the profession calls expenditure below the line. So those expenditures in this budget relate to the payment of the principal for earlier loans to public enterprises, and that's about 30.7 billion dinars. If we look at the old method of budgeting, then this 191 billion dinar deficit would be reduced by these 30 billion, then it would be about 160 billion dinars. But we think this method of making budgets is more real and we welcome this paper. As we heard, the deficit will be reduced. The net hasn't been significantly reduced, but it's been reduced. That's a positive step forward. These measures are also the two most important measures that I will highlight and will reduce the deficit in 2015 and not just for 2015, but for the coming years. In this year we passed laws that reduce wages and pensions and this is one measure that in the following year, in 2015 will bring positive effects. I think it's more important that the government has decided to suspend the issue of guarantees, new liquidity guarantees, means, to cover the loss of public and state-owned enterprises. That's why I think it's positive, because in this budget we see that the level of guarantees is about 81 billion dinars, so if we don't give new liquidity guarantees to these companies we take to the neck some problems that we have to solve over the next few years, and the problem is "Srbiagas" and if I can say and related public companies that supply gas, this is about Azotara, Petrochemy. So they're losers and so far they can't pay for gas. So we have to solve the problem of these public enterprises. I mean, I may be wrong, but I think the estimates for the dividends of public enterprises are a little pre-named, so, about 16 billion dinars are about revenue. So far, the practice was that we barely got some money into the budget, and now it's about 16 billion dinars. But we know that this year in 2014 we already have a positive growth in these dividends, if it's well shown by the realisation of this year's budget, it's about nine billion dinars. If there are going to be all 16 billion dinars or 15 billion, 15 and a few billion dinars, I think there will be a positive impact on our budget. We think that in the last few months there's been a positive increase in tax revenue and we've introduced a little order into the tax system. I hope that next year we will be able to maintain this same trend, and with that, we will be able to increase income, so, by increasing tax discipline and tax collection. Here in this budget they are not yet, but I don't think they should even calculate the effects that will bring about the fight against the gray economy. I think with that we'll be able to increase the revenue side of our budget. As for the expenditure side of the budget, 1,115 billion dinars of expenditure are foreseen here and we have in some categories, expenditures are reduced, and in some categories expenditure increases. In the reduced expenditures here, as we pointed out or as I pointed out, we have the biggest savings at the salary and pensions, that's about 22 billion dinars at the salary. As far as subsidies are concerned, we must point out that, unfortunately, agricultural subsidies have now been reduced by about six billion dinars. That's what we've heard from some foreclosures, or now the new law says it's only going to be for 20 acres of the country's incentive. It's an eye, if we look at it like that, about six billion dinars. Of these six billion dinars, it will be reduced. But I should point out in the case of subsidies for agriculture which is positive that we will also make some capital investments as regards irrigation and a laboratory will be done to determine the quality of raw milk. The biggest growth in the spending side is, what is now said to be expenditure below the line, meaning the 30 billion expenditures now planned in this year at expenditure on paying off activated guarantees from public enterprises. Here it should be pointed out that in other countries of Europe, guarantees are such that one, two or three percent are activated during the year, and unfortunately for us it is about 99 or over 90% of these guarantees are activated, and we still have to pay, unfortunately, and interest on such guarantees. I am also pleased with our parliamentary group that Mr. Minister has raised the problem several times as regards the financing of Vojvodina, which will be passed by a law on the financing of Vojvodina, because we think that this is the biggest problem and I think that we could solve the problem of the financing of Vojvodina. Here, if we are still at Vojvodina, it should be pointed out that the transfer funds for Vojvodina are reduced, but these are the transfer funds or those relating to workers' earnings in the public sector. We have the biggest growth in expenditure in the interest category. Here I think the biggest problem, at the expense, is that we have about that category because that's the third category, the largest category of expenditure. After pensions and profits, I think interest rates are third category. This is about the growth of about 19 billion dinars. In the last few years, we've singled out tens of billions of dinars for interest, and I'd say, one year at a time, we're giving out billions of dinars, and unfortunately this trend will remain for the next year. I mean, if my data is correct, we've singled out about 112 billion dinars for interest rates in 2014, and in 2015 we're going to raise about 131 billion. And the same thing to say here is that one part of interest is unfortunately about these activated guarantees that we gave to public enterprises, that's about, if I calculated correctly, about nine billion dinars. The government has introduced several important measures that will permanently reduce our country's fiscal deficit, which is, as I said, a reduction in wages and pensions, a reduction in the guarantee of public enterprises' liquidity, meaning new guarantees. I hope that it will also be able to endure, and unfortunately, the reduction of agricultural subsidies rights. We, the SVM parliamentary group, have submitted two amendments, in fact one amendment to Article 7. Budget law, but this amendment consists of two parts. The first part concerns the funds of the Inter-Academic Commission. It's about the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Last year, unfortunately, we left out this category of expenditure and with the first rebalance on our initiative two million dinars were put in place, but unfortunately in 2015 we forgot this category with this amendment would correct this mistake and ask for the costs of this inter-academic commission, for those costs, 10 million dinars. As for the second part of the amendment, that part of the amendment refers to the construction or adaptation of the National Theatre in Subotica. 35 million dinars are scheduled for this purpose. We asked to increase this amount to 50 million dinars. We hope you accept these amendments. Finally, let me say that SVM MPs will vote for all the proposed laws that are on the agenda of the sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17002	Thank you, Mr. Peck. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17003	I would like, of course, to welcome all the honourable MPs, to thank my fellow Peku, for one truly systematic approach to budgeting, and to understand precisely those key elements that the government has tried to put first in all the measures that are the essence of what we are planning in the years ahead. First of all, to put an accent on exactly the topics that you mentioned, related to public enterprises, several of which are key, whose financial stabilisation and consolidation are necessary for the country's overall macroeconomic stability are in the ministry of mining and energy, and from that area, above all, I mean "Electroprivred Serbia" and "Serbia". In order to understand the sustainability of this system, which, when we say that in the 2015 budget, there are no new debt allocations, for "Srbigas", for gas payment, I must say clearly that this is supposed to be a sustainable system. I would like to do a little digression, and we, at the government of the Republic of Serbia, have adopted the "Electroprivreda Serbia" restructuring programme at the first session of the government, I expect the Serbian government to adopt a restructuring plan "Serbia", which defines "Serbia" as a vertically integrated company with ownership-separated energy activities, which will allow for the further more efficient functioning of "Srbjagas". In parallel with this, we with the IMF, via the World Bank and the IBRD, are completing a financial stabilisation plan for the EPS, and a financial consolidation plan for the "Serbigas" to define and some key measures and principles to establish some new ways of functioning in economic terms, when these companies are concerned. But to a large extent, we change the ambience in which they function, first of all, I mean "Srbigas". Serbia's largest share of its financial bad results was based on the fact that the entire state's policy was that a certain kind of social peace and employment of businesses via Serbia and their survival in work, based on the fact that "Srbigas" delivers unpaid gas. First of all, I think of several key companies in the chemical complex, and first of all, Petrochemy, Azotara, MSK. What is the premise of everything we do in 2015 is that there will be no gas delivery to those companies that can't pay for it, and we provide a model for these companies to function in such conditions. We are very close to providing this model of function and gas security for this particular chemical complex, in such a way that the chemical complex can work, but that it is no longer exclusively to the damage of "Srbigas". We have succeeded in an agreement with NIS to provide for 2015 and 2016, for the needs of Petrochemy, for 50 million cubic metres of gas, which is extracted from domestic sites, at a cost of $280, for 1,000 cubic metres, representing about 60% of their annual gas needs, at a price that is about 40% cheaper than what they now have, which allows Petrochemy to finally have a price of gas that is economical. They agreed with NIS the price of primary gasoline and perolithic gasoline, which will allow Petrochemy mainly to stabilise its business, and for that final step it takes that big investment, in the new polypropylene production line, which we are currently negotiating with several companies that have reported being interested in the strategic partnership for Petrochemy. Finally, when it comes to the Azotara and the MSK, we are in a serious phase of talks with Gazprom, or our Russian partners, to try to return that toling scheme, which was present in 2012, until, it seems to me, in early 2013, when unfortunately, it was abolished, or you, that gas model, not to say, barter of the arrangement from some 90s, which should allow Azotara and MSK to get gas at the price that, simply enables their production and which makes their production economical and does not make them further into losses. And, finally, the second segment of those measures that we need to establish for "Srbigas" is one discipline among local self-governments, in paying gas obligations, and we simply have to make such a model in which all segments, first of all of the state, are responsible that in that system we no longer have those payment delays, or a lack of payment at all, because simply, "Srbigas" can no longer bear that burden to deliver gas to everyone so that it is not charged, and that gas must be paid abroad, and that in a currency that is converse. I also have to take this opportunity to take advantage of it, and once again, to express great gratitude to the citizens, because objectively, citizens are the best and the poorest, and they have paid most regularly all the obligations for the energy delivered, and they are exactly making that contribution to our energy system stable and that we have the opportunity to make it stable in a way that we can provide the necessary amounts of energy. So, I want to conclude, we didn't plan additional subsidies in 2015 for additional debt to pay for the amount of gas we're just going to provide, we're already planning a system that has a lot of dice and that makes one serious mosaic how to improve the business of "Srbiagas" in a way that it can meet its obligations on its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17004	I thank you, Minister Antic. The word has been given by the MP, the head of the parliamentary group Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17005	Ladies and gentlemen of the board, respected ministers, JS and JS MPs will vote in favour of budget rebalancing, budget and other laws, but at the very beginning I want to commend the finance minister who did not read the draft budget, which means that he knows this matter very well. We had a case in the past years, even when it's figures and figures, he said it out of his head, so I want to commend you and I'll see how you're going to implement those figures in 2015. I hope you'll be all right. Why are we voting for the budget? For a number of reasons. First, for the rebalancing because the increase in revenue occurred in the rebalancing between the last rebalancing, i.e. the pre-last and cost reduction, it is precisely the two facts that give the right to those who are engaged in financing to rebalance the budget and thus will be greater budget realisation in percentages than before the last realisation, that is, on Wednesday when the vote is held. I won't speak numbers, Serbian citizens when you tell them billions, millions, it's hard for them to understand, given that today's average household has a maximum of 30 to 45 thousand dinars at home, so they've never seen in the hands of millions of dinars and we won't bother them with the numbers. And what are they interested in? They want to know if there's going to be a pension in time? That he'd be on time for retirement. Can those budget beneficiaries who receive salaries from the budget count on paying in time? There'll be pay in time. What will be the price of electricity, gas and all that is essential for one family, for one household, for economic operators? We can also expect that there will be no radical measures with an increase in prices and that those who deal with the economy cannot cover all the costs they have. A unique Serbia will support this law for several reasons. I'm saying that we could be optimistic, we need to see if the climate was created in 2015 for the economic development of this country. There's a climate. A few days ago in Serbia, there were 15 prime ministers of the government of the state and the Prime Minister of China. This presence of these high-ranking officials should be used, but not to wait for the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic to bring us together with ministers or, I don't know, businessmen from those countries, but to go to those countries ourselves and use the benefit that Serbia has, subsidies, and what's less cheap in Serbia than in other countries in the environment and thus bring investors. What else do we have to do, or doesn't exist in the proposal, and we can? This will be done where and where the councils understand Serbia, but I propose to the government to give instructions or tasks to local self-governments to bring investors into villages, to make factories in villages. In this way, we will stop the departure of citizens living in the country, because a large number of people are out of work, and nothing less will be interested in an Italian investor, who will travel more 10 minutes to the city center, or 15, from a village, but to have a factory or location in the industrial zone, and that some convenience will be determined greater for a factory built in the country. Whether these are factories that are related to agricultural producers or not, but in any case, for example, when I bring in an investor, I say, I only want you to hire workers from the territory of this city. Why? Because that's where you get your location, because you don't pay for that location, because you get logistics in that city, and I think that's how farmers will benefit from it, and that they'll be able to hire one of their members at that factory. Speaking of farmers, it's very important how we help farmers. And that's where the government created an ambience across Russia, where we have a good market, and I think it's very little... Are you a cameraman, Minister, or are you listening to what I'm saying? If you're a cameraman, I can hire you, if you lose your job, on Palm Plus TV, and you can get these videos through RTS on the CD. I want to give you good suggestions today. I really think this budget is good for the citizens and that you need to listen carefully to what we're saying. I apologize and thank you. And for the cameraman, I see you're a professional. What else do we have to do? To help those who don't work anywhere. Social justice. You as finance minister have to look at all the budgets of local self-government and in some ways tell them which positions for 2015 are not good, that some positions should be abolished, that some are reduced, and that social justice, which is necessary at this time for those who are sick, who are not able to work, for those who do not work anywhere, for students, for students, how to help them. I also have a good proposal for you, and there will only be damage to the ones that politics has hired, and these are members of the city council. Some cities pay more to city council members than ministers have salaries. That position should be lifted. In three, four city council members receive 110-120 thousand dinars per month only because once every two months they will accept the proposed agenda that the parties propose. When it comes to membership in the boards of directors and supervisors, we, Unity Serbia, have not charged for ten years. Also, in several cities now you have a position for next year as they will buy cars. You can't buy cars at a time when people have nothing to eat, when citizens have no place to live. It's a luxury. If the city doesn't have a car, that president of the municipality must have his own car, right? I guess it's past that time they come on a bike and come out with Mercedes. Savings are very important, as the government of the Republic of Serbia saves. If the government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolution ministers could get 70% less cars than they had before, why not do the same at the level of local self-government? Local self-governments from the interior and towns and municipalities of the interior are more difficult to live than citizens in central Serbia's cities. When I say internally, I mean more remote municipalities, those municipalities that don't have original incomes, which have no income from pay taxes, which is today in cities almost 60% inflows in the budget, inflows from salary taxes, which 80% go to local self-government. She's famous for saying that in a house in a family isn't enough to save one. I want to make a comparison that the government is one member of the family, and that 160 municipalities in Serbia are 160 family members. No one can say that centralism is the Belgrade or centralism of the government of the Republic of Serbia because someone wants to see what local self-government budgets look like. Minister of Sports, you were a very successful athlete. How many times has the Serbian and Yugoslav anthem been intonated while you were at sports? Now there's less and less of it. Why? First, not enough funding to develop sports, to privatize sports and sports clubs as soon as possible. For the last ten years there's been talk of sports, and always at the beginning of the year we talk about it, when we're done the current year there's no report that we've been doing anything about it. We passed several laws on sports, and I would ask you to make the privatisation of sports clubs next year and that those interested in really developing sports in Serbia be at the level, because these were our real ambassadors for the last ten years. If you don't mind what I'm about to tell you, look when the football championship starts in Serbia, how many viewers there are in Serbia's matches, and that we just want the sport to be one very important branch in Serbia, to turn people off from a bad path, drugs and alcohol, and to have their idols on sports grounds, not to be some other, who are 22-23 years old and drive expensive cars. What else is important for the finance minister and for the government of the Republic of Serbia? I'm not going to say that someone consciously did it, but now all the factories that are in restructuring are on sale and they have one ugly black ID card and no one's going to do business with them, because they don't know when that factory's gonna be sold. If they have products, they should make an annual contract with the buyer. They can't make an annual contract because they don't know if that factory is going to be sold or not, so I ask you a written notice to inform the buyers of these factories, their products, that they can freely cooperate with these companies. There are also those factories that God can't help, but there are those that work and they work, besides having that status, they can't take credit, they can't be in debt, they can't make an offer without an advance. They need one explanation and assistance from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Unique Serbia always wants to help the government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolute ministers, given that we have great experience and when it comes to local self-government and economy, and we want that when we criticise something not to be a malicious criticism. Today I have not caught myself that there is something that would particularly criticise the government of the Republic of Serbia and the resolution minister. I'm sure you did everything you could. What else is important? How do we know that companies have healthy bonuses? What's a bonity? Bonity is very important for the buyer or the supplier, for the bank, and so far I am sure that 60% of companies have transferred claims from year to year. Is that about the bonity, what the associate is saying? If it's for bonity, let me wait a little longer. Can I go on? Thank you. So, what's important? How do you, as a resolute minister or government, that those companies that transfer claims year after year, have a lot of public, state, social enterprises that can't describe it, and they can't even charge it, because factories, enterprises that are in restructuring can't get a conviction, have those that are liquidated, closed, how do you write off those claims? I think we'd have a much healthier picture and we could watch much healthier how hard factories and businesses at this point are living or showing a state that isn't true. What else is important? Medical service. Health care is very important today for Serbian citizens. I'm not gonna say that health care is bad, but we have to help those who don't have the money to buy drugs. I'll tell you, a man died in Jagodina just because the fund didn't want to give him instructions for chemo and in the release list from the clinical center of Kragujevac stands – he died because he didn't go to chemo, and he didn't go to chemo because the fund didn't give him directions because his employer didn't pay his contributions where he worked. There are similar problems in Serbia and someone who is sick must be treated for free, if the disease is severe, that I am not a better doctor than a doctor now or that I am not a politician of general practice, but that is one example that happened. From funds, or from the budget of local self-government, there must be a position to provide free medicines for those who are sick and have no place to buy medicines. Ladies and gentlemen, today is not Prime Minister Vukic present, certainly for justified reasons. I want to congratulate him on everything he's done in the last two years, especially the time the floods hit us. I would like to congratulate both ministers and Velimir Ilic, whom I greatly appreciate and a man who as mayor very well mastered the job and all the other ministers, and Salet Antic, who had no helmet, might have been 40 days for him today. Has it been 40 days? Far away. But he jumped a 3% rating on the list, a little joke over that ice that fell on the minister's head. Many of the elementary disasters this year have hit Serbia, and Serbia has fought in a way that 99% of citizens are satisfied with what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing and resolution ministers. I won't say all ministers are the same. Of course, a man has four, five children, so not all children are the same, but they're all fighting, someone a little less, someone a little more. Generally speaking, it's a very high grade. I also want to congratulate the citizens of Serbia on the coming holidays, New Year's Eve. I'm sure there'll be another session by the end of this year, but today they're getting rid of their life for 2015. Decisions are being made today on their family budget. As of today, they will know how much they will be able to spend every month, etc. Serbia is a very interesting country for investors. If we do not use this and lose 2015, we will hardly return those interested 2016, 2017 and 2018. I can tell you that every other day some investors call me. If I were to get an assignment from the government, I would like the government to tell me that in four cities for the next six or seven months, I would bring investors in and call directly or call out all those who sit on their hands and just watch TV and what the government will bring them. The government created conditions for you, and each of us who deals with politics has to work and at the end of the year tell citizens and the government, to whom we have to report, here, we did that, too. I would ask ministers who have identified themselves in my questions to give me answers, and I am particularly interested in opening up a factory in the country and thus stopping people from going from the village to the city, because there is no room in the city for everyone. We must respect the village and its agricultural products and see, respected ministers, if we bring constantly to Serbia markets from Croatia, from Ljubljana and those markets when they open in Serbia, they automatically close down several hundred STR stores and leave us without a job I do not know how many citizens of Serbia and those markets have 90% of products that are not from Serbia. It's not discrimination. This cannot be against us either Europe or no one, but it is in some way a direct and indirect preservation of what is Serbian. If we get into those markets, we can see on the labels that are your products and where they're from. When I brought investors to Jagodin, I was just looking at it, not to close the market, so I brought in an investor who manufactures car cyrades, so the investor who makes seats, the one who makes blood bags used by medicine, so I brought in an investor who manufactures decorative furniture, where there is no such a similar factory in Serbia. Only in this way can we preserve what exists and what it does, and not by bringing some, to create competition for our own and subsidies should they be the same for all both domestic and foreign investors, as it has been so far. The budget provides for a subsidy figure, but I would also ask you, when that figure is spent, if there is only a need for the budget position to increase, that the subsidy is given and that we allow the arrival, that investors in Serbia come in as much as possible. Unique Serbia will support all these laws and will vote in favour of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17006	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17007	When the issues for new employment measures are, therefore, this rebalancing, i.e. this budget provides for 2,800,000 for active employment measures and another 500,000 dinars for the employment of people with disabilities. Predicted, expected coverage of the person with this amount of money one 129,542 faces. You can see it's how it's taken care of. Only for comparisons, I'll tell you that in the last budget for the same needs we had 1,800,000 plus 600,000 for people with disabilities, so nearly a billion increased investment in new employment. When it comes to first employment, i.e. subsidies for young people primarily, they range from 150,000 to 250,000 dinars, depending on what municipality we are talking about, whether the devasted municipality, how undeveloped it is, or how developed. When it comes to persons with disabilities, there is an even greater subsidy for new employment from 180,000 dinars to 300,000 dinars, again depending on what municipality. As you can see, how we take care of new employment and all our measures are active employment policies. When you spoke about social protection and social contributions, some 144,000 million dinars were projected for various social contributions, and only on which this government didn't save a single penny, these are social contributions. There's not a single right, not a single one. Just so you understand what the money ratio is in the very budget of the Ministry of Labour. That's about 94%. So, 94% of all the funds the Ministry of Labour has don't touch in any way. I'm sure this will be of particular interest to you, that compared to 2013, we increased the expected birth benefits, parental allowances, child benefits and childcare benefits for those who have the right to do so by seven billion dinars. So, compared to 2014, we increased by two billion, compared to 2013 by nearly seven billion. We expect to have positive trends when it comes to demographics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17008	Thank you. The word has a minister. (Dear Markovic, from the post: Minister of Finance did not answer my questions or should I send a letter? ) Mr. Markovicu, the minister has the right to respond at any moment. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17009	I wanted to answer a few questions that came directly to you regarding sports. What is most important is that in the next 2015 the sport will not suffer, regardless of all the austerity measures and the RS government policy. It is a reduced budget for the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and those directly concerned, who lived on public income and money from all taxpayers, will not suffer, especially since next year is the pre-Olympic year, where competitions will be the most likely to win new standards for the Olympic Games themselves. You also mentioned there's less intonation of the anthem in sports competitions. I agree with you that it is also wonderful to hear an anthem and that we are all proud to hear it, but I must also say to all RS citizens that this year is a record for winning the number of medals at international competitions, European and world competitions, and that this is an indicator, regardless of all the austerity measures, that we are very successful in sports and that this year we have had unremembered results, especially in sports that have never produced results, under the quotes, small sports, which we call ourselves. They made the biggest move forward, as far as Serbia's promotion itself is concerned. I agree with you absolutely, the athletes were, I'm sure, and will be the best ambassadors of Serbia, because Serbia is recognised primarily in the world by sports results, and then by all other aspects. As for professionalization, privatisation itself, changes in legal form or their own transformation of clubs, I am sorry, there is not a business minister who will be the bearer of the whole story, but in agreement with him and with the finance minister it is decided that in the first quarter of 2015 we will send a draft law on privatisation of sports or professionalisation itself and that in the next period we will come before you to defend one such law, because we know that only through a change in legal form, in our own transformation, I say, professionalisation of Serbian clubs we can have the prosperity of Serbian sport. And that's what we're going to do in the next period, because again, sport and the youth sector will not suffer because of all these austerity measures, because we know what the priorities are and thank you for all the suggestions and we will try to justify all these wishes, requirements and all that is expected in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17010	Thank you, Mr. Widow. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17011	First of all, I'd like to thank you for your job offer. I hope I stay here to be Minister of Finance until I finish this job, and then we can talk later. I'm kidding. I thank you for a whole series of very concrete proposals, and I think they fit very well into some of the things that we're already doing on a different plan. They're not seen in the budget, but they're seen in other initiatives. First, bring investors to the villages, I'm long ago asking a question - what does it mean? At our so-called. The regional aspect includes only some level of a group of municipalities or municipalities, and in fact the relationship between the village and the city where a whole series of problems, infrastructures and people who do not have to come to cities, but can use their existing properties, means so-called. urbanisation of the village is in fact the answer to many of these problems. I like your idea very much, and it would be good to include it in a debate about so-called. parafiscal intrusions that we will be doing in the next period. In other words, there are indications that some places, not only, we can attract investors, but they come across some resistances, some obstacles that we need to systematically examine and see how they can get away. NAED says – 384 parafiscal charges exist in Serbia. I don't want to be mystified, there may be double counting here, but I'm sure it would be nice to get to know each other and send these results to everyone to see for themselves what can be done. First we remove the restrictions, then we find a way to attract these investors. I think it's something that many countries do successfully, especially countries that have to master much larger territory, such as. Canada. They have very successful models as they do it. As for the mode of work and efficiency of local self-government, colleague Udovici had to go to pre-scheduled meetings, but I think it is an integral part of the story of better management, at the level of the Republic, at the level of the locals, something that we must do together or with a model of perception or a model of standards that everyone will apply. What's really important is that these enclaves where people are hiding, that they're taking up some kind of aponage, and they're actually doing nothing, it's a syndrome that repeats itself everywhere, in public enterprises, in local administration, everywhere. That's what people did on purpose. It's not a mistake, they say, it's not an oversight. It is a deliberate creation of such places to make it party or other for its comrades. I think it's something we're going to have to systematically attack and eliminate wherever possible. As for the very important issue, Mr Sertic may be able to answer more specifically when he returns from the meeting, which is the question – what can the state do to those companies located in some legal interspace, while they are in restructuring or bankruptcy? In all these forms, businesses could continue some basic activity. With us, the situation in which any process is being launched stops everything else is costing enormously large costs. I completely agree that we need to think about what kind of security the company's partners can provide some guarantee to continue with normal business. If it is in bankruptcy, restructuring is not necessarily a failure, it is not necessarily a partner that cannot be handled. Many countries have different instruments. I don't know what we can do, but there's got to be something we can do to eliminate that kind of fear of strangers, especially, and our companies are working with such companies. As for industrial policy and multiplicity of selling some chain companies and other foreign companies, without restrictions, which can be set, in many countries there are restrictions on how much of the share must be domestic production in food chains and other places, it is something that is a matter of a little deeper industrial policy that we will have to, in the coming period, put on the agenda and in the best way to respond. I mentioned at the beginning of the opening exhibition that market sales continue this way. If that market has a monopoly, then you're actually selling something that shouldn't be the main subject. The main object of privatisation is that someone produces, so that it goes into sales chains, and in this way you give someone a chance to use limited retail spaces, charge huge margins and actually doesn't contribute as much as possible, or as close as possible, to the spread of employment and income. For health services, I think it's very good, we've used that before. In the discussion of these measures of severance protection, and the rest was an idea supported by our colleagues from abroad and who said – if you can't afford from the budget, to offer someone a connection of the internship to a large number of years, because it's a few hundred euros a month, and this comes up with sums that are practically unsustainable for the budget, offer at least to people health insurance, not to be out of the system, because health is the most important factor. This applies to those who are between two jobs and people who have problems financing themselves through their incomes. Yesterday someone asked me this question on a TV show and I answered that we should do something urgent, make one solidarity fund from which they will be able to cover these basic health costs to ensure everyone's right to health care. It's something where social solidarity could and must come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17012	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17013	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia. At the very beginning, let me say that New Serbia's parliamentary club will support budget rebalancing in the day of the vote, the 2015 draft budget law and the accompanying laws, of course, in the voting day. What I would like to mention at the outset is a few words about the budget rebalancing for 2014. Many at the beginning of this debate have said that this is a rebalance of rebalancing in a rather negative context. What I would commend, and I have to say at the very beginning, is savings, and there's no shame in saving anything to get it right later. The budget system law is clear, which is why budget rebalance is needed, and that is why we are discussing it today. What is commendable, above all, is the four billion dinars that will be deployed to the Ministry of Agriculture for the payment of leftover subsidies and back-to-back payments, primarily farmers, from previous years. What is important, unfortunately, the Minister of Agriculture is not here right now, so you will answer Vujovic for her, I hope, and that means that this rebalancing means that we will settle all the lagable debts towards farmers and that this rebalancing is related to a certain reduction that we have in the 2015 budget in the agricultural division, where with some 91 billion subsidies in 2014 we now have around 84 billion in 2015 in the Budget Proposal? Does it mean that now it's going to start from scratch, that we won't have any leftover debts from previous years to take them on ourselves, but that farmers will know that all debts are over from 31.12.2014 and that they can then normally compete in 2015? I'm an expert engineer, and I'll speak in numbers. I also think that viewers watching this TV broadcast should know what the 2015 draft budget looks like in the figures. What is important and what viewers need to know, it provides for slightly larger funds in the state register, slightly larger assets on the income side, somewhat reduced resources on the bulky side, and that minus, or deficit of 191 billion dinars. What I'd like to ask you, dear finance ministers, is that as far as I've seen in this budget, we've predicted to be in debt in the following year about 706 billion dinars, which is about six billion euros. Of these, about two billion to cover the deficit and about four billion euros to repay the interest and previous loans that have been taken years back. One of the colleagues who spoke before me said that this budget was defined on a 119-euro dinar course. As far as I'm concerned, it's about 120 dinars. But if today's average rate of dinar is 121,3, I ask you, dear Minister, is this assumption real, because we loans, we have interest in the euro. Of course, we have a budget in dinars, so we're going to have to balance it all out. Does this mean that Serbian citizens can sleep peacefully under the assumption that the 2015 course will move about 120 dinars per euro. What citizens should also know is that inflation was estimated in 2015 between 2.5% and 5%. Some estimate is that by December 2015 it will reach around 4%, that unemployment will be up to 21% maximum, that the planned subsidies are reduced e.g. in the economy for about 80 million, and it concerns first and foremost the resolution of the firm in restructuring. There will be an increase, and therefore a larger amount for the national employment service is foreseen in this budget, where we will get a number of people in that service to receive compensation from the bureau, as it is called, and that around 15-20 000 people will be less in the firms in restructuring, when the privatisation process is over and when we have the situation ended that we will no longer have these famous 700m euros in the years that we have singled out, which in this, which in the previous years, for subsidising these enterprises. I would also point out, the respected Energy Minister Antić spoke, and it concerns companies such as "Srbigas", where we made significant funds to subsidise these companies, but when I said earlier about the deficit and some reduced deficit in 2015 compared to 2014, this reduction is based on greater public-business giving, so from a larger profit, spilling into the state budget. When I spoke about budget rebalancing in October of the month, I said that this government must lead an extorted economic policy and that both the success and failure of this government will be measured by the success of resolving the situation in public enterprises. I ask the Honorable Minister if the revenues of the republic's budget relative to public enterprises are realistically set, where it is said that profits from public enterprises and dividends in the republican budget this year will be 15.3 billion, and the projected achievement in 2014 is about nine billion. Then the profit of public agencies, this is interesting, is planned to amount to about a billion and 200 million in 2014, and the profit from the agencies in 2015 is projected at 1.6 billion dinars. It's very hard for me to believe that, knowing how she stands in public enterprises today. When we talk about public enterprises, we must remind you, as well as the viewers, that in this budget, one of the biggest costs is for "Serb Railways", for which a subsidy of 11.8 billion dinars is foreseen in this budget. Of those 11.8 billion dinars, more than 10.4 billion are for profits, and the rest of the 1.4 billion for participation in the Russian loan. It is interesting that this participation in the Russian loan for 2015 is projected to be 1.4 billion and 0.6 billion dinars in this 2014 budget. Another issue related to one public enterprise, which concerns Resavica, i.e. underground coal exploitation in Resavica. In 2015, 4.5 billion dinars are foreseen for profits in this public enterprise. Also, what is interesting enough for me is that we have provided guarantees in the 2015 budget only for this 10m-euro company, to open another dig, another mine in Resavica, so I would like to see one of the ministers answer me, if for this one mine we are now giving a profit subsidy of 4.5 billion dinars, is it profitable to give another guarantee of 10m euros to open another mine and how much will all this ultimately cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? What is also an interesting information when it comes to economic subsidies, investor subsidy policy continues and approximately the same amount is planned in 2014, but what is interesting is that a significant part of these funds will go through the Development Fund, approximately 500 million dinars and via SIEPE. Not only do we see it in the sum that it's about four billion dinars, and that, I say, in a clear and transparent way, we can't see how individually one of these companies gets the money. What I particularly wanted to highlight, Mr. Minister, was mentioned here by my colleagues by local self-government. Of course, we agree that municipalities should develop, villages should develop, so that factories can be opened there, but I have to wonder what money. Here's why I'm asking this? In the 2015 draft budget, the amount for local self-government, cities and municipalities is foreseen at exactly the same level as last year, which is 33 billion dinars. It wouldn't be any dispute if I didn't find one interesting piece of information, which is interesting to other people's MPs, which is that the AP Vojvodina and local self-government, so the cities and municipalities for the first 11 months of 2014, have achieved a surplus of 18 billion dinars, so I wonder, I have to ask you, every day we go after Serbia and knowing the economic situation in cities and municipalities, I have to ask you what kind of economic situation is in cities and municipalities, I have to ask you what parameters have come up with the surplus of 11 billion dinars? Another information that is interesting, which is distribution, distributed itself to cities and municipalities in Serbia. The architect of the 2008 distribution was Mladjan Dinkic and Mirko Cvetkovic. It must be said clearly, and that even today, here I am not clear, I, Mr Vujovic, have been running a municipality for 10 years and I absolutely don't understand on what criteria these funds are being allocated to? Here's a specific example to make it more clear to viewers what this is all about. Many here have spoken, Mr. Vulin said earlier, and he said, the degree of development of certain local self-government, so it's about population numbers and everything else, whether something was devastated, whether something was not devastated, and this year we have had so many natural disasters, floods and everything else, so there are a lot of cities and municipalities in a difficult economic situation. So I'm surprised by this 18 billion dinar surplus. What I am particularly concerned about is the fact that when I mentioned 2008 and your former counterpart, Minister Dinkic, I will only mention that I am head of the municipality of Topol, which has 28,000 inhabitants and stretches 335 square miles. It's about the same number as the parish Alexander. It is a municipality that is very close to us and by squares per population and is in the same category of development as Topola. They get $229 million from the budget, and the municipality of Topol 154 million. I must mention here because of MPs and viewers, that all cities and municipalities where Mladjan Dinkic had the president of the municipality in 2008 or where they came to him at the time – here is a concrete example of Raca Kragujevaca, the president of the municipality from New Serbia then, moved to G17 plus and as a reward, and Raca has only 12,000 inhabitants, she has been rewarded to have from the state budget at the annual level of 182 million dinars. On which criteria, and at that time, they boasted together at a press conference that they had brought in a large investor named Juru, that there is not a single full-time citizen who wants to work there in the national employment service. Then I ask you simply to clarify once and for which we have managed the local self-government in a fair and correct way, which in 2008 we were in opposition to the then government, to make it clear how this was only prescribed and by which criteria and by which commission we set, because unfortunately the minister in charge of local self-government, Mrs. Udovici, is not here in the hall right now? The most concrete example is, I must say, and that is the champion among champions, is the municipality of Loznica. They also get if they only have 81,000 inhabitants, it's not that small, but they get 550 million dinars from the budget on an annual basis, and the town of Cachak has 115,000 inhabitants gets 280 million. What's the problem here, Your Honor? You sent a memo in early December to all local self-governments, where you taxed the maximum number of employees local self-government can have. What's going on now? A bunch of these local self-governments, which each year received political funding from the state budget, spent these funds on employees' salaries and did not spend on rural development, municipal travel infrastructure and on the development of some business activities in local self-government. Today, we have as an indication that we have extra employees in public enterprises at local level, in municipal and urban administrations, and that unfortunately these cities and municipalities do not carry any consensus in which their leadership has managed these municipalities. Moreover, they are rewarded in this order because they received significant funds from the Republic budget. What I would also like to put as a remark is that the distribution of local self-government of Belgrade is projected by zero dinars. I also find it very unfair, because I will remind you, as well as my fellow MPs, that in a rebalancing in October of this very reason we gave Belgrade two billion dinars of non-intentional funds. So, in a rebalancing in October of the month and it was logical then that the draft budget, I think, was completely unfair and I don't even know why it was then set out there in 2011 or 2010 that Belgrade was not participating and that zero dinars were foreseen for Belgrade. What is the same important information that viewers need to know is that one of the basic incomes of local self-government is the separation from income tax. A significant part of the income tax passed, i.e. in this year's changes to the law, has been transferred to a health fund, i.e. to a pension fund, and the municipalities have also been deprived of funds. So I think that if there is a rebalancing in 2015 in, I don't know, the first six or the first nine months we're going to have to pay attention to how funds are allocated in local self-governments, how these municipalities spend and make another rank list of local self-government success, that we here don't just listen to empty stories. One is good, the other is bad, but that we have clear criteria and clear parameters. That's the key, Mr. Vujovic. Not only are there concrete questions, I must commend, although this budget proposal is difficult for 2015, but this is the clearest, most transparent budget I've seen, and believe me, I've seen a lot of budgets in the past 15 years. What I also have to say is, as perhaps a small anecdote at the very end, that maybe even in that kind of transparency and exaggeration, we've seen in some tables here how many meetings there have been in Borski County. This should not be of interest to us MPs, but the point is to take a bold step forward, so the New Serbia Parliament Club will support it in the voting day, but don't stop. Don't stop. It has been extorted by this situation and the difficult measures that are being taken, but the people will have patience, if we all know we're making the right moves and in the right way explain all these measures that are being taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17014	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17015	I apologize, I wanted to report after Mr Markovic's discussion with the MP. I want to welcome you all and his discussion has driven me to explain something to the MPs. Visiting Serbia, many factories, many companies, many successful businesses located in the rural area today are in a bankruptcy that no one ever talks about and for tens of years stand completely destroyed, destroyed. I'd just like to list some. Let's take a top-notch factory that was in the village of Devići in Golia. For 20,000 euros, it has been blocked, all of which have raised their hands, and they need it and can't possibly buy it, because someone once bought it for nothing, so in Pridvorica in the municipality of Ivanica, I don't want to list it in many villages, where it's all in place. Stočar in Mrcajevci, in Čačka, 7,000 strengths of the hero's throat in the tour bought some from Montenegro, introduced a great company that was the largest meat producer in the old Yugoslavia, introduced it into bankruptcy, owed it, mortgaged it, and no one ever touched it again, those peasants struggled to put it into effect. You know what 7,000 heroes mean in that? The most modern place stands for some small money. Let's get Guch. A foundry in Guca, which one of our businessmen, now in power because of some loans, has mortgaged, and that billet has been extremely positive for years, neither guilty nor due, has gone bankrupt, because it was mortgaged for some gold mine and they, neither guilty nor due, are now waiting for someone to have mercy on them to let them in. Not to mention, in Goračići, the Pak Centre, that I don't list in villages such good companies, in Osonica, in Lukas, across Serbia, for 10,000 euros each, they've been blocked and for years they've had interest, debts, unpaid electricity, and it's all calming down and standing blocked. Someone picked up the machines, picked up the trafo stations and everything. So I would ask the Ministry of Economy, the Agency to review all this and put it into service as soon as possible, because that means life for many villages in the area. Of course, there are other stories here that are extremely good. There's one of my proposals I've made to many institutions, and I haven't received an answer yet. If subsidies are made in agriculture, and five euros per hectare costs anti-urban protection, aircraft, additional, where the corridor is, why does someone who receives subsidies in agriculture not pay those five euros per hectare and protect it with the most modern technology, against this protection that we have to add to anti-urban protection, air protection, which allows where corridors are protected? I'd have some other objections I've heard from the Duke's representative who say he owes a lot to Vojvodina. I remember when we were supposed to do the freeway concession, when the Dukes said we wouldn't give our money. Now one of the biggest investments in Serbia announced, the Belgrade-Budapest railway, Serbia stood behind the project. Where's that investment? Well, in Vojvodina. They keep saying -- we don't have any investments. Let's take the Beška bridge that built Serbia, the whole of Serbia, the Tisa bridge near Sainta, many other investments, the highway another tape. It doesn't count on anything, it only counts directly to transfer it from budget to budget. I repeat, these are major investments behind which this state of Serbia stands. One more thing to the Ministry of Finance, please, Mr. Minister, the IRS is not working properly for this Serbia. Many barracks, many state-owned assets that are falling apart, rotted, collapsed across Serbia from tax authorities are estimated at extremely high prices. In the city where I live, next to the barracks, where I spent the entire century, which totally fell apart, was estimated at 10m euros. Who's gonna buy it? Nobody. Now the inspection has ordered that we invest the funds to ensure that it does not endanger the citizens. For fivem euros, many businesses would buy it, and it is a pity that in the city centre 25 hectares of land, covered by some facilities that are totally destroyed, but they are persistent, estimated at 10m euros and no one will buy it and it stands. Thousands of such objects stand across Serbia. On the railroad, you have whole buildings, houses, buildings that are totally off-line, but they're estimated to be extremely large and nobody's going to buy them. Who cares if it rots until it falls, until it collapses completely? Come on, let's make some real estimates, let them estimate the market price that's real for that area and can get into a budget of an extremely large amount of funds, from state property that nobody uses for anything. So we have a reserve, we just have to use it and put it into function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17016	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17017	Not to abuse this place, just a few brief notes. First, I would like to thank you for continuing very specific and useful suggestions. We record them and we try to use them in every way. Some of them go beyond the budget discussion framework, because some of them we get as entry into the budget process that we can or can't or can't verify. Just a few notes. You mentioned whether the dividends at level 15.3 billion are real or not. If you'd asked me that a year and six months ago, I'd say that's probably the number to question. This November we got on the basis of non-tax revenue, not divided into dividends or not, we got 15.7 billion just in November. We're making non-tax revenues, we're planning 154 billion next year, which is actually very high, which is 15% and above, 16% of total revenues, but you have to keep in mind that there are two things going on. We measure public sector wages savings, i.e. as non-tax revenue. So that number contains the part that we're going to record, we're looking for the best channels to transfer or transfer them to make the budget feel that improvement. All these improvements in efficiency, collection and everything else in the public sector will be reflected. As far as dividends themselves are concerned, this number of 15.7 billion in November has even been underestimated, since some companies have offered, and we agreed that in 2014, in which we will actually have an improvement in the situation, not funds immediately, but payments after 1 January. That distinction is allowed, so it is expressed as income in the following year which will be much harder. In short, I think this figure is real, but I also think that you're absolutely right, that we should have had much better methods of measuring the perfomance of public enterprises and how we predict all elements of non-tax revenue, including dividends. As far as the specific subsidy figures are concerned, it is a number that, as you have seen, contains a heterogeneous list of companies to which these subsidies apply. These are SIEPA reports that record, as you know, SIEPA makes decisions based now on a new regulation, a unanimous decision by five ministers. In this way, responsibility is allocated to more people. Any minister has any objection may, with his vote's absence, effectively block the SIEPA's decision to allocate funds. We did it in a regulation that was passed this summer, and that will probably confirm a new law on industrial stimulation. We want it to be done in a way that is efficient, in a way that opens up new jobs, which does not throw public resources, which, where stimulation can be offered in an immaterial way, through the improvement of the local environment, is what Mr. Markovic was talking about, that's how it is done. So, where we can, if someone needs a water line, they don't need money. It's much more expensive to give a foreign investor money to compensate for the lack of water, than to build a water line for yourself. It will certainly be, but the four billion you have, that's all from the old contracts where the third, fifth or seventh tranches will be included in the next year which can stay in that year or slip out of that year, until we include new SIEPA programmes that stimulate, say, the "Trad Light" and other companies that recently signed the contracts. It's one complex bill. We can see with Mr Sertic how SIEPA delivers his work report through the Ministry of Industry to the Assembly as a special perhaps thematic paper in which using the SIEPA and the instruments available we stimulate proper economic development, but this figure is based on their report. An analysis of whether these funds and how well they have been used and what effects they have had on employment, on regional development, on the social product goes beyond the budget framework in the way we are considering it today. As regards the issues of the reality of my colleague Ilic, the reality of the assessment, the new provisions in the Privatisation and Banks Act allow these unrealistic assessments that have arisen at some point due to a variety of disagreements in the methodologies applied, to be corrected. Therefore, in each of these cases, I ask you to invite them to see, with the Ministry of Economy, that they go through a formal process or bankruptcy or privatisation, and to make a realistic assessment of assets that will not hinder the change of property status, i.e. bringing them into function of objects that are certainly very much in Serbia. So standing somewhere at the wrong price, today is no longer an obstacle, negative capital today is no longer an obstacle to reviewing and completing the property restructuring process, or privatisation or bankruptcy. Through bankruptcy, companies can often be obtained, just in such situations, in a very favourable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17018	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by the MP Dr. Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17019	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support the 2014 draft budget rebalances, the 2015 draft budget bill and all accompanying laws in the vote. I will focus today's discussion mainly on the draft budget law and on the accompanying fiscal consolidation measures, or, to put it that way, a look at tomorrow, and that look at tomorrow is impossible, it seems, to me, to do without looking into the past a little bit. When we look into the past, we can see that Serbia has since 2005 been on a permanent trajectory of a constant increase in expenditures, a reduction in budget revenues, a rise in the budget deficit and an increase in public debt. This trajectory, I think, has been quite able to stop in this last quarter of 2014, regardless of the shock we had, or the floods we had in the first part of 2014 and we are now entering 2015 with the ambition to enter into a process of turning that path. When we talk about what we've been able to achieve right now, the first thing that I think is very important and that we should say is that we have succeeded, I think, in the first year of applying this three-year plan of fiscal consolidation measures to significantly reduce the overall deficit. It is reduced by 7.8% of gross domestic product, at least according to the data we own, we cannot talk about savings that will possibly be achieved because they will be subject only practically in the budget implementation report, so at this point we have the data of 7.8% of gross domestic product in 2014 and projected 5.8% of gross domestic product in 2015. Given the conservative estimates, that 5.8% could be less, as well as the 7.8% would most likely be less. In any case, we are talking about somewhere around 2% of the budget deficit savings in a three-year plan that targets a 3.8% budget deficit in 2017. So we plan to achieve a reduction of about 4% of the gross domestic product in three years, and already in the first year we achieve 2%. So, practically, for 2016 and 2017, we are left with, under the quote, only 1% of gross domestic products for reduction, which will certainly be much easier to achieve than these 2%. When we talk about fiscal consolidation measures, they're nothing new. Since 2012, more specifically than the rebalancing in 2012, we have been applying fiscal consolidation measures, but we are applying fiscal consolidation measures that have dealt with the revenue side of the budget too well, or have not solved the structural problems that are in the budget. So the measures themselves are nothing new. What is new, better, and different, is the way these measures are being measured, or how these measures are being implemented. I think it's very important to say one thing, which is that, I think we're done with a period where we used to have some parts of that period to artificially create surpluses or we used to, you'll excuse me for using a color expression, that in some periods we're doing deficits. It's the first thing I think is very important and it's the essential thing. The second thing that's very important is that we stop the practice of continuous fire-fighting, or the use of one-timers, or, if you will, ad hoc measures. This time we go to measures aimed at solving structural problems. The next thing I think is that it's extremely important that for the first time in making the budget, projections have been used that were very conservative in their nature, if you will, even, I would dare say – a little pessimistic. It's something new and it's something different. It was shown in the previous period that very often we used to have very optimistic estimates, especially when designing revenue from the budget, which were then not realized. First we suffered criticism from the Fiscal Council, completely justified, and then we had problems that in budget rebalances we should explain why these assessments were wrong. After all, I will quote Minister Vujovic, for the first time, as you say, the ministers – everything that was below the line, automatically goes above the line. So, no more covert expenses. We have one budget that is finally, I think, quite transparent and therefore, I would say, also credible. I mentioned that we had good results in the last quarter of 2014 and indeed in the 10th and 11th months, i.e. October and November 2014, we are recording for our concepts a significant increase in VAT collection, resulting from two factors. One is the stabilisation of the tax system, which was created after some constant changes that introduces distortions into the tax system, and the other is one more serious control on the ground that led to, I would say, a better coverage. Then we also have one very significant parameter, i.e. indicator, which is a significant increase in excise duty on tobacco products. This is very important because in 2013 and in the first half of 2014, we had very significant declines in the charge of excise duties on tobacco processing, about 20%. Now we have a first time, so, after a year and a half, a raise in charge. I would especially like to commend the government and the competent ministry. We, however, did, when we did projections of excise fees for 2015, went with, once again, I would say, a pessimistic assessment, so it's not even calculated that we have an increase in excise charge. Of course, we have this trend that continues, and that is the growing trend of excise duty on oil derivatives. What I just said isn't something that needs to drag us in and that means we need to stop with the follow-up. I would say that we need to apply measures much more seriously in 2015, i.e., we need to continue to work on strengthening the capacity of the tax administration, we need to work on strengthening, I think, synergies of inspection services, or their mutual co-operation, in order to achieve better results. The third thing, which I think is very important, is that we have to work to strengthen the awareness of citizens, i.e. Citizens need to understand that those who don't pay taxes are practically putting their hands in their pockets. When we talk about the 2015 budget, or the 2015 draft budget law, I would say it is characterised by three things – responsibility, rationality and transparency. When we talk about responsibility, we mean responsibility in designing and implementing fiscal policy. I would quote something that the Fiscal Council said in its analysis of the 2015 budget proposal – the public expenditures and public revenues in the budget are largely objective and the planned fiscal deficit is realistic. So this speaks of one responsible fiscal policy. When we talk about rationality, I mean the rationality of resource management in the hands of the state. Of course, this also applies to the draft budget, but also to the accompanying fiscal consolidation measures, especially the part relating to the practical reorganisation of the public sector. When I say - transparency, here first I mean transparency in showing all the costs that the state has. The measures we are talking about, which are applied which are part of this package of fiscal consolidation measures, are in the first place a permanent discharge of expenditure at state level, and this is achieved by these structural changes that I am talking about, rather than by some ad hoc measures. The other thing that is very important is the transformation of the public sector into an efficient, efficient and rational system, creating preconditions for creating a better business environment, and yet it can have consequences for increasing investment and increasing employment and better productivity and better competitiveness of the Serbian economy. One of the things that is solved through this reorganisation, the illustrations are done, is, and this is what we have done for 31.12.2015, solving company problems in restructuring and dysfunctional enterprises in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency. So, just by solving these problems, there will be a new 700m euros in our budget because that's exactly how much we spent on these companies, according to World Bank estimates. After all, I think that something that is very important is that we continue to fight the grey economy and tax evasion, i.e. to avoid paying taxes. Here I would like to thank our friends from Slovakia who offered during last week's meeting, and I hope that the government will accept, their expert assistance precisely in the fight against the gray economy. When we add the EU accession process to what I have said, which also certainly contributes to repairing the business environment or business image, however you will, Serbia, then it is clear that we have created solid assumptions for a long-term sustainable growth in Serbia. What I would also like to praise is that, unlike the previous years, when we had very frequent amendments to the tax law, this year we have virtually no significant change in tax policy. What we have today as changes on the agenda, these are essentially changes in technical character, so that's not a change in tax policy. So we're going towards creating a stable tax policy, which is something that is very important, which has very significant consequences, i.e. it should have very significant consequences and I believe it will have, and that's a better charge and a better coverage of tax collection, and in the second place a greater predictability. If we want to have a serious investment inflow in some future period, we need to create one predictable system. Serious foreign investors will not enter a market that is not predictable. One of the elements of this very important predictability is exactly a stable tax policy. What I would also point out as a very important thing is that public enterprises will finally have to start treating some of the pre-arranged rules. I would especially like to commend the ministry led by Minister Sertic and him specifically. So, something that SDPS and Minister Ljajic have advocated already in a longer period is that it binds to the goals of what we do, i.e. to make practically one line between goals, criteria and responsibilities. It's something that we're also introducing this budget, by making it a programming budget rather than a line-up, that's what is being introduced into public enterprises. So, you have to know who's responsible for what, you have to know who set the goals, you have to know the timelines, you have to know the passing times, you have to know the criteria, and you have to know the rules on who's responsible in case these targets aren't achieved. In this budget, we are reducing the non-productive subsidies, i.e. those subsidies that proved to be inefficient in the previous period. I see that the most important thing about this is that we are changing the subsidies to agriculture, i.e. reducing the practical subsidies to agriculture, i.e. the agricultural budget. I think that's where we miss to notice, I don't think, of course, of you, but I think of one part of the public, that, apart from reducing expenditure, in terms of subsidies to agriculture, we're changing the structure of these expenditures, or we're practically doing a kind of rationalization of subsidies. The subsidies are otherwise in Serbia at a level far higher than the EU countries. We definitely have to go to a subsidy reduction. When it comes to the subsidies of agriculture, we will reduce, or your proposal is to reduce the subsidy, or to virtually abolish for jobs that are larger than 20 ha, these are things that are very logical, to lift the subsidies for the state land to be leased, but something that is very significant is done on the other hand, which is that we have stronger support for livestock, which I think is one of the chances we missed in the previous period. We also have a significant investment in irrigation systems and we have a final completion of the raw milk quality testing laboratory, which I think is very important. It should also be noted, it is, unfortunately, almost never mentioned, that in 2015 there will be 175m euros available from IPA funds for farmers. We, of course, these farmers, but also our state administration, we need to train them to be able to use these funds, but that's something that's available, and that's something that needs to be used in the best possible way. Those funds will either not be used or used in the best possible way. What I think is very important to also say when we talk about spending budgets, we often talk about how much is spent. Of course, it is very important to reduce the budget deficit, i.e. reduce the level of costs, but we are much less talking about it, and I think that is equally important – the way it is spent, that is, how the funds are spent. We have to spend those resources in one effective way. We're going back to that story about the goals, or something that the programming budget can make possible, that basically we, apart from seeing how much money is spent, see how much money is spent and how that money is spent. In that sense, she's talking about reducing savings on discretionary expenditures rather than attracting public investment, I think it's very useful. Indeed, in the period from 2015 to 2017, in the opinion of all relevant institutions, including the Fiscal Council, will grow public investments, but also private investments, as a consequence of the first-place agreement with the IMF, but certainly the completion of the process of restructuring and resolving the problems of the companies in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency. So, these quality measures that I was talking about and the agreement that we expect will be signed in February by a precautionary arrangement, with the IMF, we are changing our country's position on international financial markets, i.e. changing credibility, or changing the country's credit rating. It's something that's very important because that makes us assume that we're in a cheaper way, that our duties are far more favourable than they are right now. I've seen in one place, it seems to me, in an analysis of the Fiscal Council, a comparative analysis of Germany, we're not comparable, but as a concrete example here, it's very interesting if there's a slightly greater deficit than GDP, how smaller the allocations than GDP to service that deficit because they're in debt on far more favourable terms. We can't expect to reach Germany's credit rating, of course, but we have to work to improve credit ratings, which will make a lot better. We will reduce, for example, the interest allocations that we have a very big problem this year because we have very little expenditure cuts, regardless of what we essentially made very serious cuts on which we saved very serious amounts of money because, among other things, we had a very significant increase in interest in 2015. When we talk about concrete savings, we, of course, made the biggest savings based on the reduction in wages and pensions, based on the reduction in discretionary expenditures, based on the reduction in subsidies I was talking about. I think when we talk about savings, it's important to say something else. It seems to me that this Budget Law in 2015 and the Budgetary System Act introduce a new definition, which is the definition of dividing just as real as we have, not stretching across, as our people say, our own leper. So what we agreed on and what we did when it comes to parties, it's that self-percentual donations are linked to tax revenues, so, what we're earning, not expenditure, as was the previous case. So from now on, it will apply to everyone. So all the percentages are related to something that's real, and that's how much we've been making. The second thing, all non-transparent bonuses, additions and fees are lifted, which I think is also very important. The third thing, an increase in wages and pensions, which I believe, at some point will become a subject that we can talk about, is about a single aggregate profit that we've made at the state level, not some rule that's not based on real parameters. Regardless of what sounds pessimistic at times, I think we can still hope for a certain recovery of population standards in 2016 and 2017, but on realistic grounds, not so far. As a member of the SDPS, I also have to say a few words about something that we are very interested in, which is social, or social giving. In that sense, I must commend the Government that, regardless of the large savings to be made in 2015, we have had the strength to increase social giving to a certain extent, therefore, in nominal terms, namely, that, according to the Fiscal Council, practically these duties are at an appropriate level. What I think we should do is listen to what the fiscal council said, which is that these givings should be better targeted. So we need to focus in the next period, focus on giving social benefits as best as possible. I'd like to mention a few of the examples that we've had, that is, in this budget. One is, for example, something that I think is very important, it's a programme for the socially endangered, or so on. a energy-protected customer project where the state will provide between 120 and 240 kilowatt hours for that protected buyer. The other thing is that larger transfers of national employment services have been made possible. So let's go meet the problem. We know that in the following year we will have an increase in unemployment due to the completion of the restructuring process of certain commitments that we have undertaken, but we are going to meet this. We define 2.2 billion dinars for active employment measures. We define certain funds to increase compensation for the unemployed and for early retirement of those who want to buy a job internship...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17020	Time, Mr. Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17021	... to the burden of the state. I'll end up here, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17022	Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17023	... No, no, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17024	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milan Krkobibić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17025	Dear Mr. Chairman, respected members of the Serbian government, respected colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are watching this discussion today, we are facing a rebalance, this is the second rebalancing this year for 2014 and the draft budget for 2015, with the laws following them. What to say about the rebalancing, the new one, for 2014 except that in some ways he is in all of this and some positive surprise, if you can say about the rebalancing, the rebalancing. Why do I say that, because it is obvious that certain savings have been made, that reduced expenditures and that efforts have been made on the other hand to increase revenues. That's good. That's a good definition would've been even better if it had been January. Unfortunately, it's only been following us for the last three months. Better VAT charge, better excise charge, lower costs. I would say for the first time, I followed a little work and government, the ministers took their mission quite seriously and began to search their positions. Some even offered perhaps something that was not supposed to be offered at some point, but all in all, a certain calculation was made and the crown was also this rebalancing. Not so nominally, as much as the expression is prepared and willing to do certain specific things. Then I think it's a good example to approach the budget for next year. The budget for this year that's ahead of us, I wouldn't repeat what my colleagues have been saying, is transparent, is large, under the assumption that some say and that it's difficult, he's quite clearly defined things. Let my thoughts go in the direction that he could have been less detailed because that detail and distracts attention from some essential positions, but good. It's something that's a formal grudge to this budget. The budget for this year is the follow-up to, I think, 2015 from 2014, I'd say, I'd also like to say, an attempt to set a course for both the 16th and the 17th. That's how I get it. I understand that a little wider than a simple calculation, I realize that a new concept is launched which should only be launched in 2016 and 2017 to give adequate results. Of course, what's important about this budget? Everyone who sees and listens to me today, and colleagues in this Parliament know very well, determines the fate of the largest number of public sector people, businesses, health institutions, scientific and research development, there is no need to count now. Exactly, he will determine how much he will have in the next year, how much he will get, how much he will be able to spend. What I think is important, it is important that the government programme of the Republic of Serbia, I am sorry that the prime minister is not here, is the key thing. There are programs and government and ministers I assume stand firm behind that programme, they must lean on this very budget. This program, the implementation of this programme, can verify this budget and give it a transitional assessment, but we'll talk about it next year. I don't rule out rebalancing next year, and that's not bad. Constanta is still. The expenditure has increased over the past few years, incomes are decreasing, budget deficits are rising, total debt is 70%. All right, we're putting a stop, we want to go down to 60%, we want to cut that deficit. Now we've reduced it, as far as I can tell, to this proposal to 191 billion. All right. We'll be back, saving up. Where were we saving? We've been saving on an extremely sensitive segment that concerns the largest number of people in this country or at least the largest, so to speak, on pensions, one part of pensions, and profits in the public sector. Those who are touched by these measures cannot have an extremely positive opinion about them and I understand them. I recently heard your one statement where you said that these victims, the victims, were meaningful, if I was a good paraphrasist. I really support one such concept, but in my next year's work in realising these budgetary positions, we just have to prove that it's a victim with a meaning, that this victim made sense. If we do that then all those people who have come, so to speak, in that body of people who have given one of their own, I call it a solid contribution to the reduction of wages and pensions, I don't consider it a reduction, of course, I know it's a nominal reduction, but it's very important that we don't understand it in such a way that we don't realize that it's imposed. Every imposition is heavy and a man certainly cannot be satisfied with that purpose. If we say yes, this is a temporary measure, this is a solid contribution in a short period of time in which we will try to do some key, important things and make it better for us tomorrow but for everyone, it has one different meaning. People are motivated. Mr. Canak isn't here, but he said one thought that political will is needed here, consent. I would extend it a little, not just a political, not a matter of consensus of the ruling coalition, it exists, most exist, it's not a problem. It is necessary for all of us in this Parliament to achieve a minimum level of consent, to find this least common denominator around which we can gather, and then to send a message to the citizens of Serbia that all together participate in this concept without a general consensus, I would say, without universal consent, this concept will have less chances of success. The part about saving also relates to subsidies. It has already been pointed out several times, they have been reduced, as far as agricultural subsidies are concerned. It's true, we all know that they were illogical. We helped those who were smart enough, smart enough, luxuriant enough to help themselves. All those who have had thousands of hectares of the country are skillful enough to have the help of both this parliament and this budget, and absolutely right is that reduction of subsidies. The subsidies involved in the public sector, I'd like to devote a few minutes to this subject, I'm in this business, are very important. Public enterprises, it is known, is a stone on the neck and the Serbian budget and the Serbian state. Minister Sertic is here. He's running a few important things. I mean one very, very serious approach, one new methodology, a new attitude towards public enterprises, simply to carry out the responsibility to see the result. There are no great stories and great wisdom. Final account follows. We will know exactly how many public enterprises there have been. Whether it was a business gain or a business loss. If I remember the data correctly, the losses were somewhere, I think, over 50 billion in the last year. This year we're designing to be something over 20 billion. It's a reduction of nearly 30 billion. That's a great step. It's a really great step. But simply, the question is, well, people when it was 55 or 50 and some billion in the minus, which is why it's not in plus 55, and there's us with that billion euros, and there's a solution to all our problems. Neither the pensioners would think about when their pensions will be brought back together, nor would public sector workers expect a reduction, nor would doctors consider that they are not paid enough, professors also. Not to talk about what we've completely distracted from our minds, in the 21st century, how much separation we have for scientific research. But, okay. The first steps are done. I stand on the view that it is necessary in the next period to implement amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises, I say this pragmatically. Today, we have all the public enterprises in the same basket, both the big one and the small one. All differences between them are in two-home or one-home management, and whether there are five or three representatives on the Supervisory Board, that is completely irrelevant. It's a fundamentally irrelevant question. We need to define them clearly. Share in several groups, pay particular attention to public companies located on the market, which operate on the market. We have them, and they have to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget in that case. In this year, I think the income from these public enterprises was relatively modest. I also have the pleasure and honour to announce to the citizens of Serbia, "The Post of Serbia" has paid two billion and 122 million net profits. They've paid over 500 million taxes on profits. We've completed a 46 million investment. Served all receipts for 15,000 employees, growing and developing. So, one fine example of a public enterprise, how it can and how it should work. It works in the same way ‘Electro Network’. I see, now Minister Antic is not here, taking steps to define the EPS position. Why EPS? I personally think that only EPS, the honourable MPs deserve not one session of this guy, two, three, but 10, if necessary. These are the largest resources of the Republic of Serbia. We don't have much of it right now. Let's see and find the best way to put our famous EPS into operation, to put it into service, to fulfill the basic mission it has, but on the other hand, to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget on the market. I think it's going to be a serious task. They have to go into transformation. One information that is important for this high home, of 30 and some public enterprises in Serbia, only three have gone into essential, structurally deep reform changes, "Post", "Electro Network" and EPS. What does that mean in practice? Corporateisation, a new form of market performance, scientific research development, market research, quality control. All of these are elements for someone to say – yes, today we are competitive, and competitiveness is the basis, and I, Mr. Finance Minister, in this draft budget, do not see it very well. Where's the export? What about the export? A few years ago, the President of the United States, this is an interesting thing, has given the order, beware, the President of the United States, as ordered by military operations, you know well, correct me if I'm wrong, that exports must increase by 50%. That's what they did in four years' time. We have to export. Of course, you'll tell me - people, and what should we do if we don't produce anything? Let's make it. Let's see where our industry strategy is, where our export substitution strategy is, let's go into production. Without production, without creating new products, without providing new services, we can only dream of exporting. Of course, the indicator of all this was your appeal, too, just before, and the expectations of a direct foreign investment. Direct foreign investment is something, Greenfield, to say, not many in Serbia, but desirable. We have to make it possible, there are now these attempts to end things together in a month. I don't know how many local self-governments are willing to participate in all this. There are valid presidents of the municipalities here, who know that. But that's where we have to invest our energy. Foreign investor, what's it run? The security of the funds that invests that he can bring back and profit that he can make. Everything else is in the other plan. I don't believe much in the relationship of friendship in business. You know that very well. There are only precise procedures. Friendship's a different plan. That's why it's very important that we have procedures. By sticking to these things, I expect the Ministry of Economy to continue this business, to define public enterprises the way I said. to make a difference between them, to separate work from work, and in the coming year, a significant source for budgeting, that revenue side, besides excises, besides VAT, aside from taxes, is precisely the profit of these public enterprises. I'm convinced we can accomplish that, but for that, we need an absolutely necessary consensus. I repeat, not one political option, all political options, the consensus of Serbian citizens. So that's our resource. We can't just give him up. We don't have another one. What I would finally have to say is that the PUPS parliamentary group will also support the proposal for rebalancing and the draft budget and the accompanying laws, to say, with a pure heart, but with extremely, extremely careful expectations, what and how it will be done next year. Let's not re-evaluate that we've ended up cutting wages and pensions. Let's not do it again over the next year, let's do it again and say, well, we haven't done it yet, and now we're going to do it extra. So this is how we took the air into the lungs, we breathed. We're giving this good team a chance. I expect it's a good team to realize these key things. Then success won't go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17026	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17027	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, several last discussions have filled with a story about the economy, and it is my pleasure to give a few information and to refer a few words to the work of the Ministry of Industry, but also to the work of members of other members of the government who have in their portfolio and public enterprises and businesses as their basic work, particularly agriculture, electricity, energy, infrastructure, etc. The MP Krkobbic is also the director of a very large and very important enterprise for Serbia, and in that part there is a lot of information, and he knows what we have been through in the previous period. The MP Markovic, too, is someone who has spent his entire life in the economy, and all the people who have touch points with it, in one more specific way, talk about it with a lot of understanding and with a lot of information they have. Our public enterprises are one of the most important things in preparation for next year, not just because of this preparation of fiscal consolidation and recovery of Serbia's complete economy and not only because it is certainly behind the IMF and for the World Bank and for all the international institutions that co-operate with us, one of the main issues at any time will reduce subsidies to businesses. Another issue often raised in public, which is how many of the public sector's surplus employees are. That's where we need to separate public administration, public enterprises, several times I've made statements and I'll stand firm about it. In public enterprises, we must first see precisely and clearly what is being done and what is the process of work, when we establish clear work processes, then we will make a plan for how many people need to do these jobs, and for me it is a much more important thing who will remain in those companies and how these companies will be run in order to realize the jobs that the state has given. Therefore, public companies are doing certain tasks that the state has given them and on behalf of the state they should carry out. The huge debt we had in 2013, we will see that it will be by the results there at the beginning of March we will probably have, since by February 28th is the deadline for handing over all the accounts for 2014, I hope it will not be as it was in 2013, but the job we launched a month and a half ago, which Mr. Krkobic was talking about for the first time in Serbia. So, with 36 of the largest companies we've been sitting down and we've made, under the name of the companies, ask them to defend their work plan for next year. Items per item, each company defended its work programme for three, four hours each. It's not about the 19th point we've referred them as Government with a task of what everything in their manual should do, it's about changes in the functioning process. So you have one huge number of enterprises in Serbia that really don't work, not on market grounds, that don't work on any known operating system. We're going to need a lot of help here, we're going to need it, we've already talked to the Faculty of Organizational Sciences and some other experts who can help us implement all the processes and all the things that matter to us in the consolidation of our public finances, and that means, above all, in public enterprises. It's not enough to just say, I don't know, "Serbigas", "Serbian Ways", or whatever else, the third company has no more subsidies. We make that decision, but this company needs to move on, it has to keep working. New companies that are on the market such as Post Offices, such as Telekom where they have serious market competition, therefore, are one company that has a particular monopoly, other companies that have no original income and the third category are enterprises that function in the same way as other businesses operate. So, we have to create this process for every company to create individually, we have to make public enterprises that function on the market by the time they're owned by a state or state, have an interest in keeping them in that form, that they can function and that they really fight the market, because that's also the moment that we decide to do some privatisation and sell it with a far higher price, because this company will be able to deal with competition and realise its plans. The other thing that was mentioned, the question of investment. The question of investment is a very complex thing and a lot of work and activity has to be done so that we can lead the country to a desirable, big and serious destination. The processes started, the job started, but that's what you're learning more and more, you see how much you don't know, and here when you go, you think, I don't know enough, five or ten things, and then when you start cleaning up, you realize how much obstruction you once have of administration, how much legal regulation you have that is unequal which is also a real problem for you, and sometimes the easiest thing to make is to make a decision -- that we want to do it, but it needs to be implemented. I, since I come from practical life, from the economy, am trying to translate political decisions and tasks that we have into reality with my associates, and it's a big serious job. We have included all associations that exist in Serbia. The other day in the government, we formed a team to solve the problem of the gray economy in which they are representatives of NAED and the Chamber and all associations that exist in Serbia and which work, which represent the economy. A council of foreign investors, organizations from Germany, Austria just to help us get out of the process. On the one hand, foreign investors, when they come to the country, seek stability politically, judicially, seek stability and long-term tax policy and ask for a lot of incentives. It's been a lot of questions lately whether we should have incentives, whether we're going to include them in the budget or not. Well, we have put them in the budget and we will continue to give incentives, because that is the investment of a part of the project budget financing that every company has and that is given to all countries in the region, almost all EU countries today. Spain seems to be giving you over 25 000 euros per job, I've only given you one example. Each country creates a particular policy for itself, and we have our advantages and we struggle to show that we also have the reputation that we create on the one hand politically, on the other hand concrete talks with representatives and the EU and how they affect the stability and the reputation of our country in Europe and on the third hand the conversation with the businessmen to bring it down to the same extent, that when we talk about Brussels that this story is not different from what we talk about with every entrepreneur, or every company that comes to Serbia. It's not easy talking. Large companies know that they have the opportunity and that all countries in the environment offer them certain things, sometimes even blackmail us. You now need to be the magg to give a large company that will open 500 or 1000 jobs to you or bring more to Serbia, while having competition from some countries that do not respect the rules even the EU. We are trying because of our pre-accession negotiations and all the obligations we have and agreements with the EU to be correct in this regard and not to give a single penny more than the EU rules prescribe, and very soon in the next few weeks in this House we will have an investment law before you that we want to define clear investment rules in Serbia. For one thing, foreign investment and domestic investment are even, there's a problem that domestic companies can't at all simply and easily get guarantees because they're over-indebted because we have a large number of problems. This is what foreign banks do easier, or foreign companies through their banks. The interest rates are far less, but we choose between hiring and running some hard policy, I'm always about to find a model and a way to hire our people, to have a good and quality deal with foreign investors, not to be just a labour force here or if we are to see what the chains of production that we can connect with them so we can hire another five, ten, fifteen, twenty or more percent of the additional companies that will be with them. Sometimes it's very difficult, sometimes it's easy, depending on who you're talking to. Not all companies are the same, not all companies have the same business culture, so in different ways they talk to everyone, to those who need to do it. On the third hand, we started to clean our house and our yard very thoroughly. For two and a half weeks now there has been a team going from document to document, from procedures, from jobs, from talking to people working there to determine whether or not these are the shortcomings that our promotion agency currently has and how to train it for jobs and obligations that work. Is it what we need, or are we going to make something else, and then we're going to go out in front of you with a new package of measures on how to do it? So we know what the mission is and the goal is, but I'm not going to go out in front of you and say, either in the papers or in the media, we're going to bomb someone without creating a way and a way to do it. So let's say first -- this is business, these are goals, these are how we're going to measure all together the success of some institutions or some institutions, and then we're going to say -- yes, we think it's for that and that reason, we're going to leave SIEPA as an agency that's going to work in such a way or we're going to say -- no, we're going to delete it, we're going to do something else. So, one responsible policy I want to be the work of all of us. Companies in privatisation and bankruptcy, MP Dragan Markovic asked a question about how firms in trouble and restructuring can work? All enterprises in the restructuring process are protected from collection through court proceedings by the end of May. It's a measure the state introduced to allow companies to try to consolidate in a certain period and to work. The problem is that our domestic banks, business, commercial banks, don't want to go into business arrangements with such companies. For this reason, we have, both in this year and in the previous years, and in the following year, formed a part of the funds that will go through the development fund in which we will be able to help certain companies with market potential to overcome their problems until the moment we privatise them. Why is it important for us to make the privatisation process quick and efficient? Because we realized, not because the World Bank said we had 750m euros in annual debt. The question is whether it is to this extent and how it is calculated methodologically in full, because it includes what the expected revenues and what is not paid and direct costs etc. are included. The point is, we really have trained companies that can live and work. A complete portfolio of over 500 companies has been defined. For each company, it is known which model will be privatized. By the first half of January, businesses have the obligation to prepare their documentation in accordance with the rules on how they got the decision on models and then, already during January of the month, we start with the largest number of those official announcements. What's important is that you know, for every company, it's going to be a public call, no matter what model it was. No deal will be made at my office or anyone else's. So those conditions that are published, all will be able to apply and say – we want to. You have different models of selling capital, most of the company that defined the production of property or strategic partnership. We also have several combined models, I think, of these companies in combined models. Next, we have a number of companies that are going to go bankrupt and have a problem in the media again. These are enterprises that don't exist. We have some 188 companies, and right now these 188 companies, 90% of them don't exist or have one employee, and it's technically more someone else's employees. We offered a social program. Over 5,000 people came to us in this part of the budget, from the rebalancing we've already adopted. These days, programs have started for workers who want to leave the company to free companies from ballast so that we can negotiate more easily with one of the investors. So, a serious job was done in the previous period and a serious job awaits us. Every bit of this watch is important to see how we're going to do it, as carefully as possible, more systematically to get to the bottom of this. That final score is good for all of us. What is very important, MP Krkobic mentioned the issue of export economy. Yes, the export economy is a pillar of Serbia's development. Without an export economy, we can't do anything about our facilities within Serbia. That's why we care about every element that we can fit, which applies to our friendly relations with countries, no matter where, above all, the environment, and then beyond, along the globe, to enable our businesses to raise export capacity. Last year we had $186 million in exports to the Russian market. This year we're going to reach the 300 million dollar number we talked about six months ago. We started raising our capacities before the August 1st sanctions that were introduced, the first to be imposed by Polish goods. So, everyone now mentions the political context. Let's get away from the political context. The economic open market of the Russian Federation is very important to us. That we don't have enough capacity to be three billion or 33 billion, that's a thing of 25, 30, 50 years of previous work. You can't do everything in three months or three years to erase all the problems from the past, but it's important that we have... Last year we had over 700 companies, and this year we will have over 1,000 companies exporting to the Russian Federation market. So, the bottom line is that we really need to turn to export potentials in the right way, which means what we talked about when we talk to investors, no matter where they come from, whether the domestics want to invest or the foreigners who come in or, as I did the other day, have the great pleasure of opening up a textile company that expands their capacity, which 100% of their exports, or 100% of their textile product, exports to the Western and European markets and these two young people who are returnees from Germany. So people took the challenge of coming to their country, of hiring a few hundred workers and starting to work. Such companies need to rest our economy, in addition to the big part, which we can expect large companies to come. This is why today at 11.00 in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is presented a strategy for developing the SME sector in Serbia, therefore, small, medium and micro-enterprises, so the document that the Serbian government will adopt in the next few days, as promised, will be completed by the end of the year, in which we are also through the widest possible consensus of all people and associations, all interested persons who deal with the development of the economy in Serbia defined those who are strategic and how we will deal with small and medium-sized enterprises, 99.8% of businesses in Serbia belong to the SME sector. How do we do the second pillar? There are six pillars on which this strategy rests. The second pillar of this strategy is funding. How do we reduce our interest if we don't do fiscal consolidation? How do we make fiscal consolidation if we retain all the rights and obligations we have? We're talking about moving from public to real sector, and nobody did it without hurting. I have a feeling sometimes that more people are willing than our pensioners and employees in the public sector to endure measures that are not popular, but are necessary and that they understand a step forward, than the media sometimes, and as I hear MPs do. Do you think there's a magic wand that someone can crack and say, okay, now we have a few billion extras in the budget, and now someone's playing, so for that reason, to hurt someone, they're going to cut pensions and pay. No, it's all connected. I'm not someone who criticises the past, but there are serious problems and serious decisions that have been made in the past that cost us so much today. Let's talk about what it is that each of us can do for the next period, what it is that every ministry, every MP, every director of a public enterprise, in the end, every citizen will do at his job. If the secretary did her job with 50% today, let her work with 60% or 70% tomorrow. If in one way the director ran his company what we need to do to stimulate, set corrective measures and measures to measure the results of the company in order to do the job. Supervisory boards must be part of the solution, they must help the director carry out the measures, not be a place to receive some compensation or just to have someone sit there. So we're changing the whole system. It's a serious job. It can't be overnight, but I'm sure in a year, two, three next serious changes will be seen. If we get that commendation from all sides, then don't let us be the ones to put our paws in each other's legs. I'm sorry we didn't get a chance to have public meetings as bilateral meetings, and now that we've had the China Summit and 16 countries in Central and Southeast Europe. Every meeting began the way anywhere in the world, the first story of economics, the conversation directly. With each of the heads of state, our prime minister and the team who was with him discussed the economy, what has been done so far in relation to the previous meeting, what are the problems, whether the problems we had, such as with Albania, about the pharmaceutical industry, were solved even when the deadlines for resolving these things and tangible results are seen. The deadlines for infrastructure projects were set so that the Chinese who almost brought some things to perfection in their country, work, quality, speed, were surprised by the demands requested by the prime minister at the meeting and accepted it. By January 15th, it is agreed to make models, no later than June, to make all strategic documents and to start work for the summer. Our infrastructure projects are not just a solution to whether we will travel from Belgrade to Budapest in two and a half hours. It's important to us that, if we're talking about the track from Piraeus to Budapest, we can transport the containers, and then there's a wider picture. In order for you to succeed in doing so, in order to have a cargo traffic raised seven to ten times, as far as possible in our space, you must guarantee all international carriers the time of passage through your country. It will make us solve all customs barriers, computerize our transmission system, so that the container that's locked in the Pyrean port can come out anywhere in Europe as soon as possible. They'll make us regionally cooperate. It takes us a year to put all the prime ministers together in one place as we had today, and we had a meeting of Macedonia's prime minister, our prime minister, Montenegro's prime minister and the prime minister of Hungary on that day. I apologize, Prime Minister China was in a meeting, not the Prime Minister of Montenegro. The meeting set deadlines for how, from where and how the railway from Piraeus to Budapest will operate. There's a lot of things, not to talk about free zones, not to talk about all the other elements that are directly related to infrastructure development. When you talk to strangers, they ask you, not just for the laws, not only do you have highways, do you have gas, do you have a telecommunications network, today they ask you how many of you as a nation are willing to withstand the impact of the market economy? Are you ready to, if you lose a job at one company, continue to study to move to another company? Are you ready, if you're an entrepreneur, to the firm, if you've made a mistake or the market has made you lose your business, to restart and to work in new jobs? And today these are the elements, because simply, the price is rising. Everyone wants to get where they can, to have people able to fight. We have a great advantage, we get praises, not just for our workers who are in production. We get commendation for our managers, for young people who are ready, who are responsible, who have international experience, who want to work. So, creating a business environment is a huge job and depends on all of us, both on employees and on the people who operate, but also on the people who sit in this room, especially on fellow ministers. I'm asking for your support for this program and for everything we're doing, because the intentions are completely sincere and pure. Can it get any better? It can get better. My door is always open to anyone, no matter which side it comes from, the position, the opposition, to talk about any model that can make the economy better. If we have an economy, we'll have tomorrow and the future, we'll have our country and everything we need to be satisfied all over here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17028	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17029	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, respected members of the government, fellow MPs, the minister, when explaining the budget, looked back on our criticism from the beginning, that we didn't have enough time to get to know the draft budget, so he said – he was in the media, you could see what was new in the budget. I think the minister should know that MPs can't get acquainted with the content of the budget or any other legislative proposal, but only when a bill from the government arrives here in parliament, as the draft budget arrived on Thursday, and the rebalance proposal on Saturday afternoon and today, on Monday, we began the debate. If we read the media and what it says in the media, then we might read, he says, "Vujovic hid a minus 60 billion dinars." Maybe that's how they'd read about the budget. Or, "Serbia is the worst in the region under operating conditions," Forbes List research, the worst in the region. "Serbia is 78th in the list of countries by the perception of corruption, down from 72 to 78th." "Serbia is only 78th in the world for the quality of life of the old," out of 96 countries in which the survey was conducted, and was done before pension cuts. Well, "Vučić promises – you will live better by the end of 2014. I'm sorry, this is from a year ago. There's a new one, it's from yesterday: "The better one's been going since 2015. Do we, based on these headlines in the papers, need to have a discussion here or should we have a discussion based on what is written in the draft laws that are before us today? I'm thinking of this other one. Once again, the rebalancing proposal is scandalous. He has no mandatory review of members who change and what changes. We heard from the minister that there were some nine billion just moving from one place to another, but we heard that there was savings, that the deficit was at the end of November 155 billion, and that at the end of the year it was estimated to be 190 billion, unlike 225 billion, as planned by the budget rebalancing, which we adopted here at the end of October. Now, Minister, let me quote what you stated at the beginning of the debate on October 24th. It says – as you know, I guess we need to learn here, budget rebalance every year is brought in to allow the smooth functioning of state authorities and organisations through orderly budget implementation, i.e. the payment of expenditure and expenditure and compliance with those elements of achievements which could not be predicted. What could you not have predicted and what changed in these two months? How did you miss the deficit so much, if what you're telling us is true, that the deficit is not 225 billion, as we adopted in October, but that it would be 190 billion? Imagine that you own a company and have a CFO come to you and say, "We'll have a loss this year, and then come in two months later and say, "I'm sorry, boss, I'm over-calculated, it's not that big a loss, it's a little smaller." I think you would thank him for his co-operation and to tell him – if you can't predict in two months what's going to happen to the budget, you don't deserve to be in that place. How are we supposed to trust you in these budget numbers for 2015, if you couldn't guess the numbers in two months, if you missed this much? What does it say in the rebalancing? You said it - it's taken off its appraisal for the Ministry of Finance, but it's not just for that, just from those places. It's being removed from the Department of Health for a billion. That's where the savings were made, as you say. It is being removed from the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs 450m from the place of social security compensation in the budget. Well, the same 450 million from the classification, since this is now unreadable, social security fees from the budget and then transferred to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs 500 million to so-called. Transition fund. You have to say who's the only one who wins this rebalancing, and these are employees of the MUP, the only ones you said would be paid the debts that have existed for years, which I don't know who made, and now 518 million dinars will be distributed to the employees of the MUP. I believe there are debts in both health care and education. If we've already saved, as you say, 35 billion, go ahead and pay off those debts and employees in the MUP, or just some of them are privileged in this country, and only in the MUP will the backlogs and the remaining debts be paid. Why in the D.O.P.? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: And who is in charge? I'd like to beg you, if you can, without throwing away. You know it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Ask your coalition partner, who was the Home Secretary for six years, who made that debt? How does this rebalancing sound that you've been telling us about here all day? It sounds like you have 1,000 dinars in your pocket and you go into town and you say, "I'll spend 2,000 dinars." Then you go back home and you say -- great, I only spent 1,500 dinars, I saved 500 dinars. You didn't save anything, you just didn't spend everything you thought through what you had to spend. You didn't save anything. Where are all these new VAT charges? Why can't it be seen through this rebalance on the income side? It doesn't change anything. We don't see that in this rebalancing. We can take your word for it. But I have to tell you that your word is not worth it, I think, much more. I've been listening to 54 minutes of your exposure very carefully and I've been reading the budget's explanation. It's just fascinating to me that nowhere in any way did you say the fall in the gross national social product for 2014. Not a single word. There is a reason that the increase, when seen in dinars, will be 0.2%. You should tell the citizens that the drop is 2%. In 2014, 2% of GDP fell, although you told us in October that it would be 1%. That drop will be 2%. What you're not going to tell us and what's not in the budget statement that you sent us is in another document by removing it from the Ministry of Finance's website this morning, a report for December -- the ongoing macroeconomic movement. It says that the GDP has been moving in Serbia for this year, after three months. In the first trimester, the decline was, I'm sorry, difficult to manage here, 0.2%, in the second trimester the decline was 1.3%, in the third 3.6%. You wrote here in the budget forecast that the fall will be 0.5% next year. That's very optimistic. Very optimistic, because the developments in 2014 don't say it will. Here's what it says here in this paper, in this review, that your ministry did. For the first time since the beginning of 2012, exports recorded a 10.6% decline in the third quarter of 2014. It's the state of the Serbian economy today and it's not the real optimism that you put into this budget. I would like you to be right, as a citizen of this country, do not be suspicious, but we here need to speak openly and realistically and speak openly and realisticly about the state of employment in Serbia. I see that you're here, and the other way is the rebalancing we adopted in October, we threw out some numbers, probably because we criticized the rebalancing based on them, and now it's not, so you're talking about the poll, too, about the workforce that says the unemployment rate has fallen to 17.6%. I keep asking the question – how many formal employees are in Serbia? We heard that, in the end, today and from Minister Vulin, that it is the only parameter, because on the basis of those formal employees, the budget is being filled and that we should work to increase formal employment in Serbia. What's the status today? Here, on this paper right here, we can see that in 2014, the first time that number fell below a million and 700,000 and didn't move, that it stood at a million and 690,000 plus, minus a thousand. Where are your employees now? Here they are. Here's why unemployment was reduced to 17.6% based on the survey. He says – among other things, the number of informal employment has increased, and the brackets say, work on black. So that's what it says on the finance ministry's paper. Work on black has increased formal unemployment. So much for fighting the gray economy and the results of that fight. You were only able to measure that more people were employed in black than they were. The budget revenue for next year was planned, tax revenues, practically at the same level as in 2014. An increase of less than five billion dinars, but you did not say that revenues are less planned for 2015 than revenues were in 2013, 73 billion dinars are lower, although you have increased tax rates in the meantime. The only significant increase in the revenues you are counting on is the profit of public enterprises, and we have heard here from the ruling parties that voice suspicion that these public enterprises can make the revenue that you expect from them in the coming year and pay the amount of funds planned by the draft budget. The expenditures were reduced by 27 billion compared to the budget rebalances of October this year. That's when you said 40 billion we'd save on salaries and pensions. It means that the expenses have been re-increased. You said the budget couldn't be isolated and watched for just one year. He can't. That is why there is a legal obligation, Minister, for the fiscal strategy to be in parliament before the budget. It's the Budget System Act. If you don't like the law, change it. Why isn't that covered by these changes we're adopting today, if you don't want to follow that law? Say to us: We will adopt it, then We will send it for the coming days. No, he has to be there so we can discuss him today, see what kind of projection the government makes for the future, then maybe we can see how, for example, this rebalancing today, technically, what you call, savings made, under the quote, in the Ministry of Agriculture of 300 million dinars. In position, I apologize, this position says – revitalization of existing irrigation systems. 358 million were planned, and now 58 million. In the fiscal strategy for the past budget, it was planned by 2015 to separate a billion dinars and in 2016 a billion and 150. Why is this important? No irrigation, no agricultural development. Without irrigation, we can re-emerge from the floods we had in May this year. Now you're reducing it by rebalance, and by next year's budget you're planning 182 million dinars. So much for taking care of farmers, agriculture as Serbia's development branch, and making sure we don't get what happened to us in May this year. There's more stuff, I can't make it all. In Article 21. You deleted the draft budget law that the National Assembly must give consent to write-off on the basis of the debt made as a loan from the budget or to convert that debt into capital. You deleted the 'parliament'. Each previous budget contained a "parliament", as an institution that had to give its consent. It's gone. In Article 36, it is said that local self-government, in addition to reducing the total wage mass, should be further reduced by 2.5% on the basis of compliance with the amendments and additions to this Pay Reduction Act. What does that mean? To create a plan of rationalization that will be responsible for the minister. Is that layoff, how many people or additional pay cuts? The law on incentives in agriculture, which has not been spoken of today by the minister, because she is competent, first, is disastrous, the reasoning is offensive, and the second is reduced by 20 hectares per land, not more, but reduced. The current proposal said that the total funding for incentives would be at least 5% of the budget's revenue, and now it is said that the entire budget of the ministry is the 5%. So all these other things are going to be wasted, so how much left to encourage. So we'll invest in agriculture, like our branch. He finally told Minister Sertic what we could do today, so we'd be better off tomorrow. Minister, we had several thousand businessmen last week, mostly state delegations at the summit in Belgrade, China with Southeast European countries. Among other things, there were several round tables where countries represented their potential to invest Chinese companies. Then a representative of your ministry held a presentation in Serbian to foreign guests, at a Cyrillic presentation, a power point, other government representatives also spoke Serbian, and representatives of Bulgaria and Slovakia held a presentation in Chinese. Their presidents spoke in Chinese, presentation and for them was in Chinese, there was also a film made in accordance with Chinese culture, by the Slovak delegation. What do you think was the impression of the businessmen who left that meeting, Chinese? Where will they go and invest their money? We missed our chance. That's not our fault here in the Assembly. You've talked a lot about the transition fund here, you've spoken to the ministers -- there's no telling what's going to happen to the firms that are in the restructuring process, but this budget says otherwise. Here, on page 1.262, it says – 350 companies will regulate the work-law issue of extra employees and that work-law status for 26.550 employees will be resolved and that is why the Fiscal Council, whose report we received today during the debate, says there will be 27,000 laid off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17030	Thank you. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17031	Chairman, I know you've changed with a colleague at the chair, I believe you didn't then follow that course of exposure to the previous speaker, but, you know, every organized, stable, normal, decent country struggles to reduce the deficit. Even if he comes... (Janko Veselinović, from the post: Which member. ) Member 107– The dignity of the National Assembly, because you have allowed the minister to be criticised, to criticise the government that has reduced the deficit. The disdain of the Messengers of the people. I know it won't answer, that some good news from Serbia doesn't respond, that it reacts badly. But please, Mr. Vujovic, continue to fight like this, to continue to reduce the deficit, regardless of the violent response to those whose deficit reduction is not appropriate. I also invite you, Mr. Chairman, I know that you are closely following at the session what the MP has said, but just tell me, please, is there any logic in the sentence, in the naked criticism of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at least when it comes to agriculture, a literal question - without irrigation can happen to us from floods. What does irrigation and flood irrigation systems have to do with all the trouble that's happened to us? So, just on the technical side, on the human, decent, normal side, explain it to me. You took about 1,000 dinars into the city, and you spent 1,500, which I believe no one understood anymore, I don't believe the one who said it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17032	Thank you, Mr. Granny. As you said, I just switched with a fellow vice president, so I haven't heard Mr. Mark Djurisic's whole speech, and I can't tell what was said in that speech. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17033	In 2012, to remind ourselves, everything was obviously booming. There was no corruption that year, there was no tycoon, there was no theft in companies, there was no debt of the Republic of Serbia, there was probably nothing negative. It was such a wonderful year for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that it was simply all blooming. But there is only no answer to the question – where did 400m euros disappear from the Vojvodine Development Bank? Where'd it go? Who took it? Who approved it? Who signed it? Who paid? Is it one of the Serbian Progressive Party, one of us from the opposition then, that there wasn't one of us then? It affects the budget. It also affects today's budget, here's how, so let me explain and thank you for that additional question. It affects the budget, because we had to fight, to pay off such debts, and these debts were not created to build something nice in Vojvodina, to help some of the citizens, to make some progress for the economy, but the tycoons and politicians were giving each other money, to hang out on yachts and planes, to enjoy their cars and properties, to plant their magnificent, I don't know what, and then they forgot just one little thing, which is to get back to the state. Well, they didn't like it, they couldn't get it back to the state, they didn't want it back, they didn't want it back. That's how they destroyed both banks and companies. And no one can think of that. I know who will answer when corruption comes to the issue, when it comes to crime, I know exactly who will then take the word to say that it defends and people will see it in Serbia. Everyone knows who always answers to defend criminals and those who robbed Serbia and let them answer and that's fine, but this government will not tolerate crime and corruption. At that time, prominent figures like the Cosmajac were prominent citizens of the Star of Belgrade. No one dared mention their name. They tremble when they cross the street. I'm sorry it's different that they didn't arrest him and not just him, what happened to everyone else? What about Farmacom, what about all those people and workers who lost their hard-earned assets in the company chain because they believed because they worked in it? Today, someone mentioned "ER Serbia", so it wasn't "ER Serbia" created from the air, it came from JAT. I'm sorry, so all these governments who looked at the silent and debts of the MUP and JAT debts and voted for it on budgets and didn't give a shit then, there wasn't a question 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 budgets -- excuse me, how can we handle this kind of debt, why don't we pay back our debts? Then these people didn't ask themselves that question. They didn't care about that at the time. They're wondering today, and it's okay. I'll answer them. With serious savings in every sense where we could save, we didn't spend and arched neither state fuel, nor vehicles, we had a restrictive admission of people to the MUP, reduced by 700 employees, reduced costs to different types of maintenance, wherever we could reduce and save our nearly 700 million dinars. That's where we pay back our debts. That's how we pay back our debts and the police aren't privileged. They're doing the hardest job today. They're doing a hard, hard job. These people need help, I'm not saying there aren't any in other sectors, but these people are in contact with crime every day. They're in contact with the worst in this country. These people need help. I say so, as Minister of the Interior, but as someone who sat in congregation benches. We've paid back a large part of our debt with our resources. We have been helped by the Ministry of Finance and other ministries we've worked with, so that what they can't realize in this year through the rebalancing we return. We rebalance the budget, and I see all day in certain media is the subject of a mockery of budget rebalancing. So we're getting back to the state. We're showing that we saved money. Well, I guess that's good. Someone needs to say it. It's great that you did it. These debts are reduced, we have a healthier economy, on healthier feet, and I think that's the thing that Serbian citizens can see that the government is very successful. Before I read you that information, I'll read you something else. “Prezenius medical kere” Vrsac - 429 new jobs, PKC “Vajring system” Smederevo - 1,500 new jobs, “Fleš Calcedonia” Apatin - 203 new jobs, “Adrian text” Ruma - 164 new jobs, “Leoni Varin system saltist” Doljevac 1,500 new jobs, “Geoks” Vranje - 1.250 new jobs, “Everest” Ruma - 225 new jobs, “Viblak Balkani” Jagodina - 300 new jobs, “Svarovski” Subotica - 600 new jobs. These are concrete results, numbers and figures. I'm sorry these lists weren't read in 2012. I'm sorry we didn't boast like a country back then, and I'd support it with these results. From 2008 to 2012, it was mostly read -- this factory left 5,000 workers, here three, here 500, here 200. The busiest, the factory robbed, they didn't pay for the privatisation, disappeared, melted the machines and fled to India. Those were the headlines that followed us. Today we're opening up companies, private companies. We create such an environment where people can work in a healthy sector, in the private sector, where the state draws success. This man, Mr. Vujovic, made a great effort, all of us as ministers, I can tell you we were probably bored about the obligations that we had from our ministries, everyone struggled, of course, to make a better result in their sector, it made sense to make this budget on sound grounds, and I think these people from the Ministry of Finance have now done a very, very good job. I expect people to praise what we reduced from 25.5% in April 2012 to 17.6%. It is a part of the unemployed transferred from the gray zone to the regular white zone, and these people today have neat pensions and salaries, i.e. pension funds and salaries and health insurance, and that's probably good. It's a good thing they don't work black, and at the same time, I read you a part of the company, I hired you, and we keep opening up new companies, and that's what people do. I'm sorry that some others don't find the will to bring investors what they do, but they do other jobs, but it's everyone's choice. This government is on its way and I think that the citizens of Serbia and how well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17034	I thank Minister Stefanovic. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17035	I'll just have a brief, little comment about what the fellow MP was saying, first of all, because I believe it's not malicious, and then clarification and for your sake and for the sake of other colleagues, and for the sake of the public. As a national co-ordinator for co-operation with China in China's co-operation mechanism and Central and Eastern Europe, clean information works- the official languages at the summit were: Serbian, Chinese and English. So, of course, colleagues from Slovakia and Bulgaria could not speak in other languages, and it is natural that our people spoke in Serbian, as a simultaneous translation was made possible for all participants of the summit. What as someone who was a Moderator panel discussion about infrastructure, energy and traffic I must point out was the largest panel with about 500 participants and lasted almost three hours. More than 60% of the presentations were our presentations, and the essence of the summit was not only Serbia presenting its projects, but the whole region, all 16 countries and we received absolutely all the praises from other colleagues from the remaining 15 European countries, especially from the Chinese delegation and a whole series of comments that as a state, we used this summit extremely well to promote Serbia, our economy and our potentials. So this is just to make a contribution to this debate, without wanting to get into controversy, just to clarify and for your sake and for the sake of the general public.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17036	I thank Minister Antic. The word has a minister in the government, Zeljko Sertic. Here you go, Mr. Sertice. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17037	Thank you. I'll just supplement it, since my theme was the same as Minister Antic. First of all, this is the highest quality organized summit that is... I also had a chance to be in Bucharest and see the comments from Poland, so we got the best of praises. It's good for all of us, like land. A thousand 300 entrepreneurs from 28 countries attended the Business Forum and those panels that were organised. The minister had already mentioned three working languages and it was an agreement for us who ran the panels to be mixed and agreed with our participants to hear different languages. One representative had a director of the free zone who spoke in Chinese, and you're absolutely right, and all our people who spoke from the Ministry of Telecommunications and Trade, the Ministry of Business are people who speak perfect English, who otherwise participate in the negotiations in Brussels and are fighting for our companies. So you wouldn't want to extract the context that people don't know English when it's necessary, but it was agreed to speak in different languages to show it that way. Another thing that has been linked to the number of enterprises -- precisely because we know how painful it is and how much problem-solving over 500 companies that are going to be in our portfolio for next year, how much they will have to do, is also a high-quality and good social programme so that as many people who want to get out of the company and try to work in the private sector and try to find a job elsewhere, we provide funds through a transition fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17038	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17039	We've been here six hours. I expected targeted criticism, not raffle fire, but I will answer as I can and how I can in the domain of courtesy. First, I'd like everyone to quote each other with a minimum of attention. I said they were, that the data was, the whole budget was published in electronic vision on the country's website that the media transmitted. So, everyone had access, just to say, that you had access, too. So I didn't say you were reading from the media, and I especially didn't tell you to just read the headlines and the wrong headlines. In a text in which someone scandalously writes -- 60 billion hidden, so that in the first sentence of the text it would be written -- that journalists don't actually know how to read any document, then if you quote it, then you accept that level. I don't want to get into that controversy, I really need to read the whole text and at least isolate that part. Secondly, the review of the rebalancing isn't scandalous, I repeat. I told you in my words, I explained to you everything that we achieved on Friday, December 19th, the result which combines the measure on the side of income and on the side of expenditure is a deficit of 155 billion. Saturday and Sunday are gone without a change. Today we'll get the information for today, we've got nine days left. The vault is closed, except for the special, if we adopt this in the Assembly, then we'll have to open the vault, pay these amounts that are in the rebalancing. Therefore, we expect only those controlled expenditures that are not subject to these restrictions and we expect only those payments to be granted by the MPs in the Serbian Parliament. So, the nine billion we're looking for here. What are we looking for? We ask very clearly, since we have achieved a result that is so much better than what we have planned with the best intention of rebalancing, we want some of these funds to be transferred to the payment of long-reaching claims, long-reaching obligations of the state towards lawyers who have defended Serbian citizens expecting to be paid, according to experts who have done their job in court disputes, expecting to be paid, according to jurors and all others in basic and higher courts, according to agricultural producers who have been expecting payments that are late for years. The objection formally made in the way of submitting the amendment and supplementing the law may stand, but I, as an economist, do not understand the essence of that remark. I'll take an example. This subsidy in agriculture, the tenth order, is approximately from the draft amending and supplementing the law, which is the economic classification of 45 – subsidies, the number in the column, the amount in dinars 93,735,955,772 dinars is replaced by 97,511,222,772 dinars. If you calculate the difference, you'll get the four billion we're talking about. I don't know how to write that number in big letters. The numbers are written both large and small. So I don't know what we can change in law. The subsidies haven't changed, the only change is in the number. If you want, we can ask for changes to the law to be respected, such a formal standard, but I think we're still talking about the essence here. If we say that we have achieved our savings and ask the MPs of the Assembly to grant us permission to save you, we use it to pay for our long-term commitments, then I think we need to understand each other. Secondly, very important, I think we all assume that we know the budgetary process and the nature of the budget. I think it's still a big lie to say that someone took the money from the irrigation. The money was not used until December 20th and will be extinguished on December 31st. As you know, it's not money that's being allocated, it's spending rights. If someone hadn't even made public procurements, the Ministry of Agriculture knows the status of all appraisals very well, then it's the money that would otherwise have disappeared, would have been shut down and entered into the deficit reduction, or surplus, we have a surplus. Therefore, it is purely a public deception to talk about it as real money. That money was planned to be spent, and if by a certain date of the year it wasn't spent, it would be gone. They disappear on December 31st, and that money no longer exists. So talk about shutting down something like that. a billion in the Ministry of Health intended for the gamma knife, since the public procurement process could not be completed on time, then the health ministry only suggested that the item be shut down in this year, to be replaced by the same sentence in the next budget. As it reduces the deficit this year and increases it next year, it is fiscally neutral if we observe both years and normal budget procedures in all countries of the world. Since we don't have a system of invoiced positions, we can't transfer, but we have to count, with those positions that aren't ready enough to be used in the current year disappearing. So, if the citizens understood, we put the money away, under the quote, from positions that would remain untapped and put it in positions that seem to me both socially and politically and economically justified. Thus, the repayment of debts to lawyers, experts, jurors, the repayment of debts to agricultural producers who expect it for years, as well as the payment of the debts of the MUP to Telecom, according to the EPS, etc., are all extremely justified expenditures. There were also items in the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, some of which were reduced and some increased. Those who have been reduced have been reduced for the same reasons – due to the shutting down. The ones that have been increased, which is the last change, have been increased on the basis of registered people who will benefit from the severances. So it's crystal clear here, and I don't think it's really right that things that we can agree on or disagree on, we're making an impression that someone here is flying something, that someone here, as you said, is moving. No one's moving anything, this is the closure of certain appraisals and the opening of other appraisals. These are the right terms for the Assembly and the budget. There's no one here to change anything, no one to hide anything. What could we have predicted in the budget? I have to tell you, if you're psychic, you were here, you could have said. On the contrary, you told us that the deficit was even greater, if I remember correctly. I don't have a recorded quote, but you claimed that our proposed salary cuts and pensions shouldn't have worked. Then the deficit would be not 225, but even bigger, if we had listened to you. Therefore, I do not understand the moral, professional and budgetary justification of your objection. Our remark was that we couldn't remove those elements of planned capital expenditure, because we didn't have enough grounds to tell people – it won't arrive in two months or two and a half months. Now that we've seen that he can't do that, we'll cut it down. No one has lost anything, nothing has been hurt or denied, and this money, or these projects will remain, and we will plan to make the necessary funding in the following year. Finally, as for income, as for expenditure and all the other elements, I've already said global figures, but I'm just going to say it again. We two years ago, or you two years ago, I wasn't there, planning a certain level of income that wasn't realized by this dynamic because of various weaknesses, due to various factors, including the efficiency of the Tax Administration, including many things. I openly said that we've only turned our income tendencies for the last three or four months and compensated for most of it. Therefore, to compare planned revenues in previous years, which have not been achieved... Let me just mention one number. In a fiscal strategy that included this year, everyone knew very well what we had planned before, it was expected that the excise revenues on tobacco would be about 100 billion dinars. They come under 80 billion by August, and after that we return to the trend to return those revenues and expect to continue that trend next year. There are no secrets, no misunderstandings, no hiding or anything else. We are waiting to improve the short-term function of the Tax Administration and we are facing a deep reform of the Tax Administration and the entire system that is the vital system in modern states. There are many things that we generally agree on, but I just don't understand why this results in dissonant grades and tones. As for formal and informal employees, it's a difficult topic. We measure the number of unemployed, that's our target size. What is the number of formal employees I am interested in from the point of view of taxes and contributions, but I am interested in the number of formally unemployed because it is the target category that we should reduce. The struggle with the grey economy, between the two categories, is a much more complicated thing, which cannot be considered so easily within the budget frameworks. The huge differences that have occurred in the achievement of this budget and regarding capital expenditures, the financial costs and the savings we have achieved, we propose to make use of them for the purposes we have proposed. As regards the mystic figures of 2.5%, this is the figure listed in the budget as the budgeted total wage fund, which will be the result of a combination of natural outflows and planned optimal employment in the state and in the wider public sector. So why 2.5%? Because it's some middle-year expected size in a year. We don't solve the details in the budget, the details will be dealt with by special laws, by special plans. Minister Kori Udovicki can explain the procedure before us and the form in which it will be announced, including in the form of a law on which this Assembly will have the opportunity to discuss. In short, I would just like to point out once again, the budget is extremely transparently asking MPs to move from the savings we have made, instead of saving from 155 to 225, which is 45 plus 25, which is 70 billion, we suggest that nine billion be shifted to paying priority old commitments that are both economic and fiscal and social obligations, and that the rest of the budget be recorded as savings and thus reduce the debt. These categories will all be extinguished on December 31st, but the need for funding will be lower and our debt will be lower and we will rather reverse the participation of the debt in the social product, as one of the key objectives of fiscal consolidation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17040	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a minister in the government, Mrs. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17041	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since we have now heard questions related to the construction of the irrigation channel system, for the sake of the public, for the sake of the truth, I would like to say that the irrigation channels will be built in the following year and one part of the projects will be implemented in 2015. In this year the projects could not be initiated in terms of practical implementation on the ground for procedural reasons. Namely, the elections scheduled, all that followed the electoral procedure and the formation of the new government itself stopped this process of technical preparation for the implementation of existing projects. So when a new government was formed, when a new ministry was formed, there was not enough time to carry out procedures related to the international tender. Otherwise, we have prepared 14 projects completely and 11 other projects will be ready by the end of June next year. Four projects are ready to open an international tender after the adoption of the budget and with the beginning of the new year. We're doing everything in our power to finally start building this irrigation channel system that is otherwise provided with resources as you know. The 2015 budget provides for funds and plans to co-finance this construction process itself, i.e. the implementation of projects on the ground. For the sake of the public and for the sake of all those who mention today's subsidies in agriculture, I want to say that it is known that the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment this year, i.e. for the following year is projected at around 41.3 billion dinars. That's about 4.9 billion dinars or about 10% less than this year's budget. There's been a cut in wages. Current financing costs have been reduced, but the total amount for subsidies in agriculture has been reduced. You know, that we have proposed amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture with the necessary austerity measures in the context of the overall measures of economic consolidation and savings carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But what I'm trying to say is that this is one reason, and the other reason is that, by analysing the measure of agrarian policy, we have found that the current subsidy system has not yielded the expected results. We have allocated huge resources to promote plant production and we have rightly expected that this promotion of plant production, i.e. wartime production, will result in and develop livestock production. Unfortunately, we haven't achieved our goal, and we've spent a lot of money. That's why we suggested amending the Encouragement Act, but they're minimal changes. The amendments relate only to the subsidisation of agricultural areas. So the 100 ha criterion is now down to 20 ha. We also suggested that no subsidies be granted for issuing state land for lease. All other measures of agrarian policy including milk premiums that are often mentioned remain the same. So it's all the same we're just reducing the criteria for exercising the right to encourage in plant production, and by the way, we've introduced two new measures to support livestock. I have to tell you, this way I don't think anyone's damaged, first of all, up to 20 ha we have 94.4% of the total number of agricultural holdings registered 310 agricultural holdings that exercise the right to incentives, which is 94.4% of the total number, it's practically up to 20 ha. So both small and medium-sized farms are protected. Large agricultural holdings are large and in themselves are powerful and strong and they will be able to use other measures at their disposal, such as favourable loans. I must say that we have made a great effort to prepare an IPARD programme, namely to provide for them, and, of course, for all our farmers the possibility of counting on another source, and these are funds from pre-accession funds. The IPARD programme has been accepted and has received green light from the European Commission and we are doing everything we can to establish an operational procedure for the withdrawal of these funds. It is a total of 175m euros to be made available to our farmers. We'll try to achieve that level of technical preparation as soon as possible. We'll do everything we can to make it at the end of 2015. So I believe that we have protected small, medium-sized producers, that we have stimulated additional livestock production and that we, together with other branches of economy and society, have participated in the overall austerity measures that are being implemented for the sake of consolidation and for the sake of standing on the healthy feet of our economy in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17042	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17043	I don't know how many replicas you're giving me right now, given that I've caused almost half the ministers present to address my exposure. It shows the senselessness of this debate. I've had 20 minutes to say something the finance minister says -- raf. I'm sorry, Minister, we don't have a chance here and today we're not here to discuss but to adopt what you sent us without debate, because I can't say everything about 12 proposed laws in 20 minutes, let alone commit myself enough to every law. You asked if I could speak here morally or professionally. Well, the citizens have chosen me to speak here with my morality and expertise as it is, and you have been chosen by this Parliament and for your work you answer to this Parliament here. You should come here with dignity and listen with respect to what the MPs tell you. You can't tell me – you had a budget proposal on the site. What kind of website? What kind of proposal? When have we been informed that this is it? We have a law that says November 1st budget in parliament. You disobeyed that law, you sent us a budget on December 18th, and then you gave us two days to prepare for it. I see a new category is being introduced here, and that's day-to-day budget implementation. So on the daily level, we measure whether the budget is in surplus or deficit. Then, in October, everyone speaks full mouth, and we have a surplus. Well, then in November when that deficit is ten billion, then we keep quiet about it. The point of the budget is not day-to-day implementation, but planning in the long term at the level of a year, which is why a strategy is being adopted to plan three years in advance. It's what investors are looking at who are supposed to come to this country and invest in money, not what you're saying from one day to the next, and what it seems to you is that the budget is either full or empty.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17044	Time, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17045	We didn't speak here in the rebalancing debate to increase the deficit but we told you to increase revenues, fix the tax administration. You're here for next year. You didn't predict any increase in tax revenues. So, where's the fight against the gray economy? What are you going to do next year to increase budget revenues? Where are you going, how are you going to improve the work of the tax administration and how are you going to see it in the budget? You gave me the right when you said something wasn't done in the draft budget and so that that money wouldn't go out we're repeating it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17046	Time, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17047	Who planned those funds? Where is the responsibility of who planned it, and why should we trust him that what he planned for the 2015 budget will be carried out? What happens to us then, what kind of higher power will prevent us from budgeting for 2015 the way we adopt it today? When will you come with the budget rebalance for 2015? Can you tell us today? What course did you make this bill on?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17048	Mr. Djurishic, please, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17049	Is it 120 dinar course, as it stands in the budget, or is it a 122 dinar course of NBS? How will this budget be implemented and at what point will you come for rebalancing? Can you tell us the ministers that you won't come to this Parliament with a rebalance, because this budget is perfect. No, you've been giving here, sir, the chairman of the other MPs the right when six ministers respond to their exposure to have a little longer time for replication. I can see that's not true for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17050	Okay, Mr. Djurishich, that's why you've been talking for four minutes. I just had to warn you to slowly bring the end. You've got twice as much time as Mr. Canak has. So instead of two minutes, you got four minutes like Mr. Canak did. Thank you. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17051	Okay, okay, slow down. Mr. Ministers' respect, I am pleased to see you in the National Assembly, Mr. Chairman, we have here a set of laws that the Government has proposed that the budget deficit of 191 billion and planned in the 2014 budget was 182 billion and something. It is, therefore, a larger budget deficit. I am sorry that the respected police minister, Dr Stefanovic, is listing companies here, and we have taken care of the enterprises that are newly opened, that is what makes every citizen of Serbia rejoice. It doesn't matter what more than half was agreed during that government DS. Seven thousand 300 employees, 7,300 new employees, I think that's good news. You just didn't tell us where 50 grand more unemployed you allegedly hired. How come you, who promote a constantly private business and go to the private sector, and members of your party are just chasing into the public sector. You've hired over 50,000 advances. That's what I'm interested in. Let's just say it's not clear to me. As you centre right promote the private sector, and these are all of you in the public sector. ( A giant party is heard from the O.R. It is a huge party. So I...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17052	I ask the MPs to listen to Mr Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17053	... Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I'm really in this debate, we've had a pretty good conversation about it at the most, and I hope you'll let me speak to the critical ministers, if I'm allowed. I noticed they were here...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17054	Only within the scope of decency and this home. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17055	... Okay, sure. So, seeing as we've been accused of not being critical. Since some atmosphere of political war is being created until extinction and it is not good for Serbia's future and for ours, otherwise, fragile democracy. Until the extermination, until the Stigmatization of the persecution of anyone who isn't in your group. That's what we heard earlier, where the minister of police takes into his hands the lever of the judiciary and speaks, with the thrill of most, criminals, you who stole, etc. It's inadmissible behavior. You know how? (It's been said that he'll report when he's on criminals.) No, well, yeah, so we're defending criminals, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17056	Please, please, allow the MP to finish his presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17057	You did not react when Mr Babic and Martinovic were asked by the police minister, he says, quote - arrest him. That's very interesting. Watch out, in the home of the National Assembly. Now you're having fun, you're all laughing, you're feeling great, right? Let's see these heroes who, on a political basis, will continue the persecution that you've been doing for two and a half years...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17058	Mr. Stefanovic, I'm asking you not to flaunt with the MPs but to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17059	... Of course he'll fall out of power, so that boomerang will come back for them...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17060	Again, I ask you not to flaunt with the MPs, but to direct your exposure to the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17061	You had to react... . Well, you had to act. The Minister's been arrested and you're silent. The minister smiled, like, you know, so sheretically, you kept it quiet. So, I'm...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17062	Mr Stefanovic, please, I have asked MPs to allow you to complete your presentation, and I ask you to address me as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17063	... Thank you. So, first of all, let me try, in one sentence, a brief picture of the situation today in Serbia of our economy and macroeconomic, if you want micro-economic and social, we have a real recession of ladies and gentlemen, we have a decline in GDP, a decline in production, a stagnation of exports to be mild, a decline in foreign investment, a growth in the euro or a drop in dinars, a rise in all taxes, a fall in income, a fall in wages and pensions and the lowest standard of living in Europe in one sentence. So in two months because of your bad judgments, we're making a new rebalance, it's either incompetence or optimism that's not based on anything tangible. I know that JAT was sold in July, but the question is, of the 160m euros we pay. What part goes to six months which, by the end of the year, pays this Assembly, representatives of citizens, all citizens of Serbia for JAT, i.e. for "Er Serbia"? What's the amount of the 160 million from July to December, of the 160 that we pay, and what's the figure of the JAT? Here, just answer that. There's a throwout from the O.R.: Everything. Everything? Okay. I must say that I noticed here in the explanations of certain savings and the reasons for the rebalancing, for example, that the debts of the MUP, Telecom, are returning. That's okay. You pay back your debts to Telecom, then you go to Telecom, you say, "Dear Telecom", give me a piece of your income, and then return it back to the budget. Or what our people would say, someone would say in a chemical sense – combined courts, and someone would say – spilling from hollow to empty. That's what you're really experts at. I've noticed that you, Mr. Vujovic, if I'm not mistaken, and I may be wrong and a real fence, are counting on incomes for not paying wages and pensions. Correct me if I haven't told the truth. So you say this - that you have planned tax revenue in 2015, you reduced tax revenues by as much as 73 billion or 10% less than in the same period in 2013, despite a significant increase in all tax rates in 2014, the fact. Fact number two, we have supposed employment growth, and profit tax decline, i.e. Income tax, fact number two. Explain this phenomenon so far unseen to the European continent? You're getting an allegation of employment, and you're losing taxes that people pay on the basis of your salary for getting a job. Fantastic, fantastic. I don't want to be one of those evil people who says, "The season jobs, I don't want to be one of those who say, "We make people sign up for the office, I don't want to be one of those who says, it's just the ones who are at the office, not the ones who got a job." I'm not that mean. So that's my question. The new mandate for 2015 is 710 billion. The main and interest payments are 641 billion dinars. My question is, where do the 70 remaining billion dinars go? The additional deficits are not shown which we discussed and which are saved by public revenues, i.e. Public enterprises remained below the line, as the Fiscal Council confirmed. So I don't think the deficit is realistic. The subsidies in agriculture, a respected minister, were nominally lower by 32% compared to 2012 and realistically by 38% and reduced by six billion dinars. That's the same thing to say. Traveling. So, the item for travel is 6.4 billion dinars, and contracted services are 16.5 billion or about 135m euros, totaling nearly 200m euros. You weren't able to find 25m euros, watch this, keep your education salaries, but you found almost 200m euros for travel and contracts, contractual obligations. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the 30,000 salaries we pay a month for some people who have been brought in this period since you've been in power, and our enlighteners are on the street with legitimate demands, according to me. So, was it so difficult for ministers, that 25m euros to be taken away from travel and from these contracts of party employment of yours and to give it to educators so that people can keep their pay levels, not to increase them? Here, let's say, that's all I'm asking. I have to say that your shift in the year of the start of Serbia's improvement, we know that it was 2014, 2015, 2016, and 2018. Now the prime minister, yesterday, came back to 2015, it stops-goes, that tactics, it's called in mathematics a divergence, and in Serbia it's called a miserable, miserable gentlemen. Five and a half billion or 45m euros are cutting Serbia's military budget. Five and a half billion euros, 45 million euros is the smaller budget of the Republika Srpska Army, and they're full of course your mouth, I don't think of a bad sense in combating elementary disasters, emergency situations, etc. More for emergency situations is Minister Velimir Ilic, 25m euros, excuse me, 25m dinars, than the army for emergency situations, just 10m dinars. So, for 15 million dinars, Minister Ilic gets more than the Army of the Republic of Serbia. Why? I'm not sure he knows why. Probably has some excuse why he's still a minister when they reconstruct him. So Serbia is the only Southeast European country, ladies and gentlemen, that will have a GDP decline this year, according to IMF data. The purchasing power has been dropping since this government is in office and that's 4.5% of GDP this year. Serbia is the only country in transition with Ukraine and Croatia where private spending fell this year. We have the most convincing budget deficit in transition countries. Public debt is among the highest in transition countries, according to the IMF, it is now 76% of GDP, and unfortunately, it will rise to almost, or even 80% of GDP next year. I think the government is still pushing this completely missed policy of the exclusive reduction in public spending, which the IMF itself has acknowledged has not produced in Greece, for example, because it has only deepened the budget deficit and increased public debt, which is now over 22 billion euros, ladies and gentlemen. I also have to add that we have had a few situations here, where the things that the rebalancing funds are spent on, how badly it's estimated, how badly this is essentially untrustworthyly done, made this Serbia an untrustworthy place to invest in that you can never know what's waiting for you. You have no certainty in business. You don't have any business. When the ministers set off to report, I expected, here, that Minister Udovic would also report to Minister Ljajic. All right, everybody, come in. You all have something to say. I think that you, Mr. Widow, if I could ask you to still direct the funds more into amateur sport, because if we lose it, then really, here's not to be that I haven't spoken to you about something that is your portfolio, your domain, I think that we, as far as sports are concerned, can soon all these clubs lock down and they'll only depend on how much someone from the top will have mercy on them to give them money. So, now what do we got? The revenues are estimated at 924 billion, which is 27 billion more than in the rebalancing for 2014. A completely unrealistic prediction, in our opinion. That's what we talked about before. We think that the reduction in wages and pensions that you continue to do, which is becoming unarmed with this, so our pensioners and public sector employees should know, ladies and gentlemen, this government is not going to arm you with the withdrawal of money from your pocket. On the contrary, by changing these laws, they keep their own arbitration decisions or determine in the future when they will and how much I give. All the laws that protected the percentage amounts for wages and pensions fall into the dust of Serbian ruin. That's true. You can watch as much as you want in the mirror. The point is that it is taken from pensioners and workers 25 billion, while paying the obligations of Er Serbia 160m euros, and "Srbigas" 200m. It is true that six billion dinars are being reduced. Why aren't public enterprises reformed? Why aren't the directors elected to the competition? Why are all citizens in charge of giving such directors who could not enforce the law this much money? Why is there no support for small and medium-sized enterprises? Why is there no support for development? There isn't. Sitia. Why did you cut the severances of tens of thousands of workers you'll fire? You've reduced your severances in the projection. Tell that to the citizens. Citizens, you're going to get 100 euros, 200 euros, not 300, as far as we thought, we've recalculated a little. Why don't you say, as has already been said, that by ranking Forbes, we're the worst country to invest in Europe? The worst. Why don't you say where your savings are based on public procurement? Where are they? How many are there? Why don't you tell me where that 600 million euros is, what you promised? Why didn't you say at the summit where the 10,000 billion euros in investment was, as Minister Bacevic promised the channel? Where is it? Is it possible that we should all forget what you've told us, and that your answer to it will be – you're protecting criminals? Gentlemen, this is a ridiculous argument. Look in the papers, let the police arrest, let the courts judge. If you know how to run this country, if you don't know, I'm sorry the Prime Minister isn't here, to ask him again to meet my proposal and withdraw from the prime minister's post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17064	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. For his word, he reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17065	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of Members 106 and 107, especially this, that the speaker is obliged to speak about this and the agenda, but also this part of dignity because someone here was talking about political wars until the extermination and you were obliged to react for a simple reason because we have an incredible situation today. I'm going to show you this now, and maybe this speech, with two portals, is one B92, a strike of educators, one man carries "The Revolution, the Only Solution". It has nothing to do with the requirement of educators, but amazingly, the same man is on the Blica portal, and it's just amazing that there's not a single parole tied to the strike of educators, but that revolutions are being conducted here before the campaign speaker announced the Ukrainian script, so I'm wondering if anyone here wants to carry out revolutions and these wars until political extinction, or whatever he called it, is causing chaos here, and you were simply obliged to react to this sort of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17066	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. I don't respond to dreams. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17067	Mr. Chairman, the People's Messengers, I heard one more serious thing here, which the previous speaker, the MP, said, which he said, he said, they will come down from power, and then he will see. It is a very serious political threat that the DS points to its political opponents and shows what it is thinking. It does not think about whether Serbian citizens will live better, not thinking about what to do to fix this budget, perhaps with some amendment, how to work together with the government for people, we will not take revenge, it is a message, it is a terrible message. For less things here said in the Assembly, spectacles have been made. They will come down from power, and they will see us, and we will take vengeance. Those are terrible messages. At the same time, it is quite clear that what is said here is absolutely not true. You gentlemen are responsible for what has hit this country. You're responsible for where 400m euros are and you can call them nice people who stole 400m euros, here's not criminals, it's an ugly word to say criminals, it's not criminals, it's wonderful, nice, great people who robbed this country, who destroyed companies. I'm shocked to hear that the IRS isn't reformed, I thought it was booming. How? Well, I guess we've been left with the best thing, everything that works, I guess we've been left with wonderful companies, I guess we've been left with the economy in perfect condition, the JAT that records the amazing results, just to use it. No, we're left with everything that's completely falling apart, tasked to such limits that it can't, barely returns to companies and banks that have been robbed brutally by some nice people from criminals, far from criminals. As for "Er Serbia", you know, when a company increases its total income by 54% from 37 to 57m euros, when the volume of transportation is increased by 64%, when the total income growth is 82%, when the number of passengers increases by 74% from 419 to 730 000, when the company becomes respectable in the region, when it bears the name of our country, when we increase instead of throwing millions of euros, each 40m euros per year, the money is returned to us today. Today this firm is getting strong and powerful. Today she hires people. Today these people have a future because they work in a good and healthy company. That's what the question is. That's what the government did. I'll read it to you, I haven't got it all yet, but I'm not sorry to continue in this report. "Jinsi", a new plant in Leskovac, soon in Krupanj, "Bref" in Kruševec, "Henkel" in Kruševec, KWS Centre for Seed Development in Vienna, 14,464 persons based on the measure of the Ministry of Labour, based on what is transferred from the gray zone from the black zone to regular ones. These are Raskotam, Italy's Gordon, those are companies that have come, which have been opened and which the government has managed to convince that this is a good place for investment. Excuse me, where's someone coming in? What companies have come to all these wonderful environments where everything is so much better than ours, where they come from? Which country? Give me a firm that's come somewhere around these bigger ones, give me one. Where is it? There are none, but they come to Serbia, because they are offered better conditions here, the state here is doing its job and it is quite clear, and from the measure said by the Prime Minister and in everything we have done from his exposé and everything that fellow ministers have done from their portfolios. There were talk of public sector employees, so when you add up everything I've told you and these 14,000 people, there are not a few thousand people who are employed, perhaps in the public sector, and at the same time there are tens of thousands, which by pensions, which by natural spills in different ways, but these people were not employed from 2008 to 2012 by the Serbian Progressive Party. You know who hired them back then. They were hired by the Democratic Party, for the most part. You couldn't have been a housekeeper at the firm if you weren't a member of that party. What are these people talking about today? The Democratic Party is responsible and cannot escape that responsibility. It wasn't a hundred years ago. Bad measures of inadequate measures, pride, corruption and not taking the justice minister into their own hands, the courts will decide who is guilty, who is not guilty. And let the Democratic Party know that this state will not interfere with politics and the police. We've shown this by selecting people who are now at the top of the police department in different places. But, unfortunately, what exists and what the investigative authorities determine, we will prosecute it and there will be no one hiding behind the political chalice just because he performs his duties in certain areas, except that he is a politician, he will not be saved if he was a criminal and if he was corrupt and the court will decide whether he is guilty or not, the police will not decide. Excuse me, and the judges for the previous trial were watching, and before them the prosecutors, and before them, the police, they looked at many of the cases we prepared, which we gave based on the evidence that we had collected and when the judge for the previous proceedings determined the detention process, so he didn't assess it based on, I don't know what, but based on the evidence they gave him, so he appreciated it in that way. You have three organs that appreciated the evidence that was in front of them. The investigative authorities in the investigation process, the prosecutor who filed a criminal complaint, the judge for the previous proceedings, which determines the detention. These are the serious things we're talking about today. What someone's trying to say -- political arrests, that's pointless. At the same time, we had a few remarks. I listened, we had the opportunity and the privilege of being present, and fellow government members, at a session where Mr. Dahman Kim, representative of the IMF in Belgrade, was at the government meeting where we discussed the budget. We heard clearly from his mouth. The man explained what the IMF's vision of this budget was about, that it was a good budget, that it was something that led Serbia into development, something that led Serbia far from the difficult time of loss, as it had in previous years. I think it's commendable when it comes from such restrictive institutions as the IMF, something we can really be proud of. I think all this is said for companies that are working and employment growth, i.e. a reduction in unemployment, is in favour of the fact that this government is focused on investment, that it is focused on the development part of the budget, on the component, and on the difficult situation of choosing to make the citizens of this country live better. Today I saw in a newspaper text – the MUP lost a million euros. I'd say a man -- that's really the way it is. They spoke to my colleagues, spoke to Mrs. Widowsky with the Norwegian ambassador. The man's in shock. He's never heard of anything like that in his life. All the funds are available to you, but someone has put this title and said – the MUP has lost a million euros, total untruth. They find some quasi-ist who writes something and then you have it as information. That's not how you do good for your country. I ask you all, I hope you will be interested in this debate until the end, since in certain parts of the debate there were more ministers than opposition MPs. I hope you will show by your presence by the end of the debate that you are interested in this, at least as many MPs as the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17068	Thank you. Mr. Babic has the right to reply, but before that, the word has been made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, who appears in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17069	Mr. Chairman, you've reported yourself in this giving of your word. In fact, you violated Rule 107's Rules of Procedure for not warning Mr. Secretary of the Interior or, let me put it this way, Mr. Secretary of Police. If another minister had said that someone here robbed a bank, that he was nice, not a criminal, so let's not blame him, but that someone who runs the police qualified the MPs by saying that we robbed something, we should, first of all...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17070	You didn't listen well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17071	Let me finish. First of all, to respect the fact that the only MP arrested for robbing a bank is SNS MP Mr. Tomic. When you talk about DS ministers, Mr Stefanovic, who are now on the phone, both on the left and on the right, there are ministers who were in the DS government and behind you sitting the man who was in the DS government. Why don't you ask them why they haven't implemented the reform? Why don't you ask them who robbed Agrobank or some other bank? The way the discussion is being held here today is, at the very least, incorrect. MPs have limited time, and then we listen to the lectures of ministers who can't justify such a bad budget and then move to a time past, explaining that this government isn't responsible for anything. When, gentlemen ministers, do you take responsibility for leading this country? What's that moment? If you list "Leone", "Henkel", then say – this is the credit of the former government, as is the new factory in Užica today. The factories can't be your credit, and the problems of some past tense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17072	Time. I don't know what to say to what you've said, except I guess it'll be possible when they recover all the debts of the former government. Anyway, like the other MPs, I think it's a good thing the ministers are here today, which they can answer all your questions. When they are not here, you say – why are they not, when they are, you say – why are they not? I think it's a good thing they're here today to answer all the questions. The debate is of interest to Serbian citizens, is interested in what the government can finally do for Serbian citizens and what they say with public attention. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement about this? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: yes.) ) The Republic has a minister in the government, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17073	It's not a replica, Mr. Sutanovac. The minister called after the speaker to explain something he wanted. You know that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Minister can always do that. I apologize, Chairman, for taking on old habits.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17074	It's your old habit. Thank you. I just made a lapus. I wanted to give Mr. Babic the replica, because he has the right to do so, but before that, the minister in the government, Mr. Stefanovic, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17075	Let me just say one thing. We won't let it go easily. At least I won't. The words that are spoken here - they will come down from power, and they will see, I will not forget easily. I'll always remind you, you didn't say that, you yourself, Mr. Shutanovac. Mr. Borislav Stefanovic said. Fortunately, there's a system involved. I will ask the chairman to deliver the minutes and the stenogram. They will come down from power, and they will see. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: What will he see? I don't know what they'll see. You probably know better.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17076	Please don't throw Mr. Stefanovic away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17077	It is a terrible thing because it brings a complete destruction into parliament's work. I followed closely what you said, followed closely what you said, but unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17078	Mr. Borko Stefanovic, please don't throw the Minister away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17079	I know you're used to banging cars and being like that, marking your political action with that kind of behavior, but this has gone way too far. This has gone beyond anything. When Dragan Tomic of Universal Bank was arrested, who was an SNS MP, no one from the SNS here said anything. These people voted to remove his immunity and we didn't talk about it. It was a fight against corruption and whoever it was, even if it was SNS. I don't know why you have a problem with a criminal being branded a criminal, that someone who's robbed us say he's been robbed. Where's the money? I ask where the money is, where's the money? He couldn't evaporate. Someone took it. Someone who was in power at the time and the investigation will be completed. I hope the trial is over. I hope so. I can't influence the courts. I'd love to work faster, but that's their thing. The court is independent, the prosecution is independent. We can do as much as we can, but I just want to tell you -- don't try to defend undefense. The people who destroyed the companies, who led to the state's collapse, have to answer for what they did if they broke the law, and there's a lot of evidence that they broke the law. When the court comes to judgment, we'll know of course, and then we'll be able to talk, but I want to tell you that we saw with our eyes that people are out of work, that companies are taking loans, never giving them back to the state, sharing them with tycoons, and then what? Then the state disappears, then you have the kind of debt we have today, then you have to pay it back. Gone, evaporated
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17080	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. You don't have a chance on the line, Mr. Sutanovac. There's only Mr. Stefanovic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: he mentioned me by name and at my discussion he replicated. ) You've identified yourself in a negative context. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Name he mentioned me. My name is still Dragan Sutanovac. ) Someone may mention a name, but if they did not do so in a negative context. Did you, in a negative context, recognize yourself? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: yes.) Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac. (The People's MPs of the SNS are getting out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17081	What's amazing? The minister picks up, gives a lecture, mentions the name in a negative context, and you find it amazing that someone answered the word. Mr. Minister, 75 DS members were detained in two and a half years, five indictments, one process, 69 people were brought to justice by God. None of them were directors of any company. Give me the name of a director from the DS. You're talking about company executives as if they were our directors. Which one? One. So today you're replacing the directors of Serbia who've been there for five, seven years and bringing party personnel. You're the Minister of the Interior and no one threatened you, and you'll see what it's like to leave the government when you act like this. It's just, it's gonna be, I'm sure, pretty embarrassing. For what? Because you've done so much wrong to the citizens of Serbia. All ministers to gather here, the prime minister to come, to explain how it is possible for people to get better when they live worse, how it is possible for the state to run properly, if the standard of living goes down from day to day. We're talking about how we have an ex-government. You've been in power for three years now, this is the seventh rebalance and budget balance since you've been in power. In the past, let the ministers who have been sitting next to you, who have been with us since 2007. When do you take responsibility? That's a question, a key question, that we know, to get out of here to that moment, because until then obviously we can't get a word in, and if we get a word in, then there's replicas, injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and on what grounds? Simple questions. Just tell us, Mr. Chairman, can we answer the word or can't we?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17082	You're speaking right now, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17083	You've put all the Democrats on the list to speak last, we're the last ones on the list. Why is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17084	You know very well how to make a list. I don't know what it's like, 'cause you're making a circus here all the time. It's a disaster. This guy kills us, arrests us... ) The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17085	I'm sorry Mr. Sutanovac now mentioned the murders. This is really getting out of hand. No one's threatening anyone here. I will tell you the name – Borislav Novakovic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the city: What is the director? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17086	Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17087	He is the former director of the Public Enterprise of the City Building Institute. (Dear Shutan, and Alexander Jerkov, of the place, what is he condemned to?) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17088	Mr. Sutanovac, Miss Jerkov, don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17089	You only asked – who was arrested and that it belonged to... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Who was convicted? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, the man was arrested a few days ago, impossible... He's in custody for three months. In seven days it's impossible...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17090	Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw it away, I'll give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17091	So, no person, not a politician, who's been arrested in a period of time since I'm the interior minister, has been released by law, in any other way. Most of the judges for the previous proceedings have ordered detention, estimating that there is enough evidence to determine the detention because of possible influence on witnesses or the possibility of escape or the possibility of repeating a criminal offence, and for some and for all three grounds. None of them have been released since I was Minister of the Interior. I can guarantee you no one is being arrested politically. I don't care who's a member of some political party, if there's any evidence... People come from the criminal police administration and say – Ministers, there's enough evidence here, we're talking to the D.A.'s office. The prosecutor's office since October 2013 in the prosecution's investigation has a key position on whether or not someone will be detained, we cannot do it without the prosecution. He's pressing charges and it's going to the judge for a preliminary trial. We haven't changed any of the prosecutors or the bearer of the highest prosecutor's office, almost any judge. These are people who are from some previous times, most of them even in the police. So, if that was good in some previous times, when no one was complaining, then I guess they're good now. I guarantee you no one gives a political order to have someone brought in. When there's enough evidence to get someone arrested, he gets arrested. Is the progressor, the Democrats, not one party, I am absolutely not interested in as a minister, but I am interested in whether or not he has broken the law. If he broke the law, he'll answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17092	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) Please, there have been several ministers reported, and before that, Mr Babic is waiting, and you are now reporting from the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, and please, don't break the word of the Rules of Procedure's injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17093	Mr. Becic, could you, in accordance with article 107 of Dr. Stefanovic, ask not to declare people criminals against whom...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17094	That's all you're saying is false. Every member of the government has the right to explain, in this case, the draft budget in the way he thinks he can convince the MPs... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Why did you shut me out? ) Because of the comments you've come to speak. (National MP Jovan Markovic throws out of place. Mr. Markovic, don't throw away. It's not right. (National MP Jovan Markovic throws out of place. Mr. Markovic, you didn't get the word, don't throw it away. It is the D.S.'s manners to gain from the scene. Don't do that. I apologize, the manner of individual members of the DS Group. Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17095	There is also a member of 116. The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Becic, who obliges all participants in the session, therefore, and ministers to comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. If someone was arrested a year ago, spent two months in custody, never in the prosecution's life...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17096	Miss Jerkov, I will not allow you to turn this into a replica of Minister Stefanovic. Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I will not get the word.) You won't get a word like that. You're abusers of the Rules of Procedure, you won't get a word in. You won't get a word in by misappropriating your application after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, again reporting for word.) You can’t because there are other participants in the debate who want to hear from you. Here, missus behind you. (Vesna Marjanović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. Here you go, sign in. You didn't get your word, there's a call before you got hurt by the Rules of Procedure. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: good for both you and your minister. I thank Miss Jerkov. I've deleted several times. I've got a new application. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group... (Vesna Marjanović, from the post: I applied three times for the Rules of Procedure. I can't give you my word, don't sign up. I'm gonna delete the list one more time. Please sign in. I've got you in the system now. National MP Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17097	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You've violated Article 107. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, because I believe that we all share not only the position here, but also the obligation that MPs as well as ministers should not only adhere to the Rules of Procedure, but also the Constitution and the laws of this country. So, to abide by the principle of presummation of innocence and that no one can be found guilty or criminal until the court finds otherwise. It binds us both to the Constitution and to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17098	Miss Marjanovic, I see that you do not listen carefully to what the Ministers say. Mr. Minister said - reasonable doubt. If you don't know what the word means - reasonable doubt, I can't teach you. Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the scene: said the criminal. Miss Jerkov, don't throw it away, I'll give you a warning. I'm begging you, because next time I'm going to give a warning. The word is Mr. Babic, please. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17099	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since there have been a lot of controversy today and a lot of some of the flat-rate claims that have been made, the numbers, the playing with the fates of people in Serbia, the carrying out of false messages, I would also remind people in this National Assembly, but I would remind even more of the representatives of educational workers who are on the streets of Belgrade. In 2008 interest rates were allocated in the budget of 16 billion dinars, 2009. — 30, 2010. - 30, 2011. - 42 billion, 2012. – 65 billion, 2013. - 91, 2014. – 112, 2015 – 131 billion, 3.5% of GDP or more than it is for both primary and secondary education and higher education, it goes to interest that is in charge of those who are now taking care of educational workers. Gentlemen Educational Workers, not the address of Nemanja Street, not the address of the Government of RS, address is Krunska, address is DS. They ate your future. I would also remind you of a letter, Mr. Chairman, published in "Politice", on 16 May 2011. I believe the signatories of this letter are very well known. Albert Jager, head of the IMF mission for Serbia and Bogdan Lisovolik, a permanent IMF representative in Serbia, signed. You know what it said in one paragraph? I'm going to persist today, persistently until those who have so easily forgotten that they've created this country for 12 years, and in some parts they're creating it now. Twenty years ago, according to Mr Lisovolik, Serbia exported about 70% of its production...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17100	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17101	Let me have two sentences. Please, I quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17102	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17103	Today, it only exports 25% of everything they produce. However, transforming the Serbian economy from its current unsustainable 2011 sector, which now represents some new models, not a sustainable growth model based on pre-named, 2011 pre-named public sector, which favours consumption and imports into a growth model dominated by the private sector, which favours savings and exports, savings, and this is the savings budget, is a complex and often unpopular, politically unpopular task. We do what is unpopular, but what is sustainable and what gives the future to people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17104	The word has a minister in the government, Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17105	Thank you. Just to answer a few questions to put the final debate back where it's supposed to be, on the subject of the budget. So, where are the employees? As Minister Stefanovic said, only on the basis of the work inspection measure, from June to November of this year, 14,464 people were reported, 84% of those found working on black until then. To this, of course, add the measures of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that have begun to give effect on new employment and you will see which number of people you have now registered and employed by subsidies. To this, add that employers now know that it is not worth working on black and that it is worth more to report workers than to risk coming into conflict with the state, which is now happening, and not at the time of Bogicevic when no one had to report, and when there was always a higher interest in not applying to workers, because they do not know, tax or VAT. As for employee growth, and income tax decline, I'm sorry, I'm truly sorry that we have so many of the lowest personal incomes, i.e. the lowest number of low wages not paid, but are still paid, but are still people who report. We must now fight for the employer to pay or increase the salary where he can, or, there are such cases, pay the part in cash, not report it. But how do you explain that it is possible that at the same time you have an increase in pension contributions and a loss of health care contributions, which is both PIO and RFZO? Well, that's because even the lowest wages are paid for these contributions I'm talking about. So that's more than clear. Here, almost in your head we calculated those 50,000. As for the raise in wages and pensions that we're talking about here and now, you know what? The law is more than clear. When salaries do not exceed 7% of gross social products, we will increase them - the law. When pensions do not exceed 11% of gross social product, we will increase them - the law. We share, we spend how much money we make. I know it sounds weird, I know you're not used to it, but that's the way it is. Seven, eleven. I'll take this personally. [[Applause]] And add a few more important data that's mentioned here. You know how long it's been going to be 100 euros? From 2005 to 2013 the severances were 100 euros per year. And now you're saying we're down to 200. In your time, they were 100 euros, from 2005 to 2013. They would not have increased to 300 euros if it hadn't been for certain political ideas and not for economic ideas. So, from 2005 to 2013, they were 100 euros, let them know Serbia, and we paid 200 euros. So let's be clear about that once. And finally, I just have to add that, I see here there's been a question about the budget of travel, services, etc. The draft AP Vojvodina budget, which you will recognise is no bigger than the RS travel budget, envisions 109,196.926 dinars. So where are you going? So who do you represent, so where do you travel for more than a million euros? And for services you spoke of in the AP Vojvodina, where the DS has ruled for decades, where there are no employees who are not from the DS and where the number of employees is constantly increasing, it is also provided for services for temporary and occasional jobs, etc., 655,778,684 dinars. And now you're transferring services to the Republic of Serbia by contract. The duke you've ruled for so many decades, in which you've been setting up for decades exclusively your personnel and your activists, so you can't just fire anyone and just increase them. So the numbers are inexorable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17106	I thank Minister Voulina. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17107	Just for a little while. My remarks are highly effective this time. I just want to say that the number Mr. Stefanovic cited is correct, but it's not comparable. So the 191 billion deficit has no comparable figure from the beginning of this year, but the 158.6 billion deficit has a comparable number. It's 163.8 billion from the beginning of the year. So this deficit is five billion lower. The 182 billion figure contains 18 billion so-called. The elements below the line, while the number of 191 billion contains 32 billion. Those two numbers are not comparable. That's what we're proposing. Please compare the figures that are comparable. It wouldn't be good for viewers to get the wrong impression. In other words, the proposed central government deficit without funding elements is five billion lower this year in the 2015 budget than it was in the initial budget for 2014. Then that deficit grew by almost 50 billion to 212 in rebalancing because of elements we couldn't control. Secondly, is rebalance a matter of bad judgment, incompetence, as you say, or something else? I can accept that it's a matter of rigid methodology and perhaps our poor judgments, but I think it's very important that we define one thing here. We didn't spend it. We saved it. Our assessment may have been wrong, but we realised better. So we're talking about doing better. I estimate something at 225 billion deficits, and now I'm making 155 and asking parliament for consent to spend nine on paying off old debts. Maybe it's a bad estimate, but it's a good intention. It may be a bad estimate, but the result is much better than we thought two months ago. If it's hard for us to accept a good result, then we really have a problem. The third thing in methodological nature is very serious, which has led us into this situation. I'm not a politician and I don't like to say it, but I have to tell you now. You say again and repeat the mistake that caused us the situation, the unsustainable fiscal situation. You say – couldn't you give 25 million salaries in education based on a one-time category, contractual obligation or anything? That's what brought us into an unsustainable situation. You cannot finance permanent commitments with one-off cuts. That's what it says that permanent commitments must have a lasting source. He's got to be on the income side, not on the other side. Therefore, we reach out and seek understanding of the difficult measures that will give us time, which will give us space to turn this around on a sustainable path. The last observation is due to the deficit level. You said 76%. No, the deficit is 70%, and it's too big, in fact the public debt is not 76%, but 70%, and in that, the public debt is 69.2% and the rest is 0.8%. I think it's very important. This is being transmitted, everybody's watching this. I don't think we should give disinformation on such important categories based on which both the country's reputation and the very important, rating of international agencies that are certainly monitoring this. I don't think there should be a dilemma that the opposition claims that the debt of the state is greater than what it officially is. This is the debt management's data, and this is the data that we're standing behind to the last cent. These are data at the level of individual obligations. Finally, you said the revenues were estimated unrealisticly, 924 billion that contained an increase of 27 billion is extremely real. We made 850 billion revenue final last week. This does not include 35 billion own revenue from indirect budget users and this does not include expected payments at the end of December. If we limit twenty-fourths of them, the estimate for next year will be the final part of what we have already achieved this year despite the floods and despite all the problems we have had. So I don't think that by distorting the fact that we're creating an impression that something isn't what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17108	I thank Minister Vujovic. It's the vice president's word... I apologize, Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17109	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, for the sake of the public and for the sake of facts, it is important that we explain to people why we bring budget rebalances, why we bring this budget. Dusan, Mr Vujovic, as you wish, made an effort today to explain it professionally. I understand and understand when people, when ordinary people can't get all those expressions or numbers or understand, or mean a lot to them, but I know perfectly well that some others understand it without pretending not to understand it. So I came to point out a few very important facts. First of all, budget rebalance, and you've noticed respected friends, there's some kind of public half-association. Imagine, bringing rebalancing rebalancing. I hope that next year, at least four, five rebalancings will be brought in in which we will be able to boast that we have higher incomes and less expenditure. It's just that those people didn't realize what it was about, or those who gave us lectures all day long, and if they'd knocked down the house, burned down everyone in the house, so now we have to clean up what's left of the burned and burned house, so we can build new walls, all the way up to the roof, and we have to put up the crumbs. We brought the rebalancing because we have more money than we predicted with the previous rebalancing, because we managed to save, because our incomes have been increased, because our expenditures have been cut. We're proud of it. We are happy about this, and it would be normal for every citizen in Serbia to be happy. I see that only in this country can it happen that the German and American ambassadors, the IMF chief, love this country more than some of its political representatives love it and understand better what's going on here than others can think and speak. On the other hand, I've been listening to threats here - you'll see what happens. This is where they were talking about some kind of detention, I don't know what. Those who held Goran Knezevic in custody for 14 months spoke and ended up being legally free of any responsibility or guilt. They only held him because he dared to stand up to Bojana Pajtic at the political level within his DS. When he disturbed Bojana Pitiæ, he had to be arrested. He's been held in custody for 14 months. Four children cried while peeing, as Goran Knezevic wrote in his journals, and now they came to give us law lectures here. They say 74, and then they remember that he was arrested by an advance. We don't count advances and Democrats, we arrest criminals. It's our government's policy, and that's what politics will be. They came and said -- we cover losses, respected friends, "Er Serbia" and cover the losses of "Serbiagas". We do not cover the losses of "Er Serbia", since "Er Serbia" has not made any losses. You've made your losses. The management of DSmining Slovenia's "Aerotransport" and these losses are the losses of the state, since it is, you know, a public enterprise. The state only realized that these losses existed and had to pay for them. Nothing more. That's what you heard in the contract I read you were looking for. You didn't get anything new, you didn't see anything new. You knew well. You're not so ignorant that you didn't know it was a lie. You knew it was false, but it was nice to talk fiction, to deceive people, and to talk about how something was something even though you knew something was completely different. About the debt of "Serbigas", it's true. We also have to pay the debt of "Serbiagas", and this debt of "Srbigas" was again made at the time of the DS government, at the time of the government of Borko Stefanovic, when he was the director or secretary of state, I don't know what else. At the time of your government it was made in 2010, 2011 and 2012. That's what we just made a commitment to pay. It's important that the citizens of Serbia know. So that's what you, the honourable MPs today, are making a decision, nothing more and nothing new. We took it to pay the debts of the Ministry of Interior for electricity and for phones that weren't paid in the previous period. We took it to pay for electricity and phone and for some other ministries, which were not paid in the previous period. The previous period is not 2013 but from 2008 to 2012. You couldn't read it either, although it's completely clear to you and it's clearly written in a beautiful Cyrillic letter. Now, why are we bringing in a budget like this? It's a much more important subject, and I will return to your wish to resign at the end of my presentation. It's a very interesting wish and I can make your dreams come true, I just don't know what you'd do then. In our country, it's an interesting thing that the only thing that goes by is negative and bad news. You'll notice, I'm not going to calculate at all, and I didn't come here tonight to calculate. Let's just say we have the gas down the price for 16 dinars. Sixteen dinars, people! Every time the price of gasoline or diesel rises by 0.6 dinars, that's the main news for seven days -- there's a disaster following us, it's gonna cost us everything, it's gonna increase all our prices. There's no TV on which it's not the main news. Like today, self-control workers have gathered somewhere, even though they own or own private or state, they say -- we don't let the director change us. You stop, look and wonder - is it possible that this is the country of Serbia in 2014? And it gets the support of certain political parties, it gets the support of individual media and you don't know what to do. For the dinar, every day we were reported jumping in 0.1. On August 28, 2012, the dinar was 117,1 and today it is 121.1. Count it out, it's three comas something percent within two and a half years. In two and a half years, they had a drop in dinar values compared to the euro of only 28%. Three percent and 28%, that's around here somewhere, you'll agree. So she's just stuck, apparently, in the wrong place. So it seems to me that when you have no arguments, a team worse by argument. We brought this budget and now you will see that I do not want to court anyone and that I am aware that Mr Stefanovic is right. I'm absolutely aware, I'm sure of it. My popularity doesn't exist, and who would put up with me with such heavy and rigid measures, when there are people who will give anything, only they can get their hands on power. Here's the big salary right now. Here's the big pension. It's all going to bloom. It's just gonna make Serbia go away and disappear. If they had stayed in power and we had listened to them, if we hadn't done these heavy measures, in six months there wouldn't have been a salary, there wouldn't be a pension, there wouldn't be a Serbia, we'd be in the worst situation in our history. And they know it all, but they're a little dissident when I'm gone, so they think they can behave as they please, blasphemy and ossion, the way they've been acting all their lives. Don't throw it at me. I've been listening to your threats...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17110	Miss Jerkov, please don't throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17111	It's not Jerkov, there are others. She likes to throw, but she doesn't like to threaten. These others like to threaten. I'm not very timid, right to tell you. So, what you threatened, you threatened for free. What our people would say - you were free of paint. It only speaks of you and shows how you would behave, but we've seen it before. Well, you're your party colleague, the father of four children, just because he dared to stand up to your President Bojan Pajtic, put himself behind bars for 14 months. The judge you appointed and appointed has made a decision, made an acquittal. You're talking to us here about the actions that are being initiated by those you've chosen. You chose and appointed Zagu Dolovac. All the judges you've chosen and appointed. Mirko Radisavljevic you chose and set up and said he was the best prosecutor on the globe, that there was no better in the world, that it was Elliot Ness and what else I heard about it. When he arrested you, then he wasn't Elliot Ness, and when he arrested everyone else, he was Elliot Ness. We haven't changed it, we just said, obey the law. Ever since the man started following the law, you've started complaining about how he started arresting you. I don't know if he started you or started us or someone else, but it's important to act in accordance with the law. That's what's important. Let's get back to the citizens of Serbia, and remind me to respond to that resignation. This budget that we are bringing is the first different budget from all the budgets so far. Of course, he's not a budget that will bring us popularity. Of course it's shrinking in all sections, in all appraisals, you can see the reduction in everything. By the way, since you mentioned a trip somewhere today, I see that some journalists, who haven't read it very well and don't understand it very well, quote and say – spend on travel and specialized services 200 million. These are your salaries for scientific workers and in your time they were marked so, but you don't seem to remember and you don't know. By the way, travel costs are doubled from your period, in nominal terms, which means that it's about 60 or 62% reduction relative to your period. Only so much truth works for the sake of Serbian citizens. What is the essence of this budget? The point is, we were very conservative in our estimates and I think we underestimated our incomes. We'll see. Because, you see, I will now read you the data in the last three months, because I am sure that most Serbian citizens want to make progress in this country and that they will look forward to what they are about to hear. So, we had Serbia's budget deficit in January-November reduced 10% compared to the same period last year, from 164.3 billion to 149.4 billion. What's interesting is that we record a dramatic jump in payment and VAT, which also speaks about the shift in economy, which is, of course, said, about the fight against the gray economy, the increase in excise duty on cigarettes with dramatic and high results both police and tax administration and BIA have achieved in the fight against and cut tobacco and cigarettes smuggled from the territory of Montenegro, Kosovo and Metohija, Macedonia and some other territories. So that's where we managed to achieve significant results. I can show you, if the camera can record it, to see how this 2014 deficit goes all the way over 2013 to September of the month, and then suddenly it goes down all over the blue line and it shows the beginning of our recovery. That shows what's most important to us. In October and November, we had the highest VAT charge of 40 billion and 42 billion. By December 15th, we had a record charge of 22 billion. Compared to December of last year, which was good in December 2013, we have three billion charges higher, or 22 billion compared to 19 billion, which would be absolutely record if it ended that way. We have not seen, although it is quite clear that in January or February we will see some, at least a minimal reduction in aggregate demand. What is a good message is that people after the IMF arrangement and having seen a serious plan, having seen a serious programme, have understood that Serbia will be a healthy and successful country and part of its savings have begun to spend and no longer wait to see, because it is clear to them that this is the end of the difficult measures and that in the future, only a improvement awaits us. There will be no more cuts, no more salaries, no more pensions, in the future there will be people just waiting for a better, only a better, more successful time. So what's happened to us since September of the month is of capital importance to us, and that's extremely good news for us, extremely good news. That's exactly why we decided to go to rebalance, we decided to pay back some of those old debts, part of those terrible debts you left us, because we have to deal with it. As for the good things that someone has done, unlike you, even though I had no need, I have no problem inviting Boris Tadic or Mirko Cvetkovic or Dragan Gilas to the opening of the bridge, even though the first tranches we paid for are done by us, until the end. You see, we don't have any vanity, we don't have any problems. I think it's good for one country and I think it's important for one country. I think that shows the respect we have for everyone who was before us. Just don't tell the truth, that's what doesn't make any sense. We're making this budget, and we've made it so that everyone will get angry. I came, not to avoid it, but to take all the blows on my shoulders to let people know, yeah, it's my fault, it's my decision to go to a budget like this. The other members of the government supported it, and I am grateful to Krkobic and Palmi Markovic and, of course, to the people of the SNS and all the other members of the government who supported it, because they understood, of course, the SPS. So, because they understood it was the only way to heal the country. There were honourable MPs before us twice. One's easier. I'd call it a little trick-or-treating trip, which is make it up to the people, tell him fairy tales every day that everything's gonna be better, don't have to be saved, move from hollow to empty, or you've spent a lot of time on trips. The province spends more on travel than the Republic. And then it comes to you that you don't know whether to laugh or to die of distress, when someone is so unseriously presenting himself to you and being unserious. Either you go that way to fight your political opponents so you don't take any reforms or take real, difficult and essential reforms. We made a decision a few months ago to take serious and difficult reforms regardless of the high price we're going to pay. Why? Because it's the only way to heal our country. The International Monetary Fund supported this budget. The International Monetary Fund will come out with a statement, written as soon as you MPs adopt this budget. This means that the world's most conservative financial institution understands perfectly what Serbia is doing and that institution says – Serbia will have a deficit below 4% in 2016, Serbia stops public debt growth at 78.79% in late 2016, I hope maybe even 77%. Serbia has a growth of over 2% in 2017 and I want to tell you in this respect – well, it's good for people in Serbia to hear it. If they hadn't included a possible solution to the problems of Jelizara, FAP, Azotara, MSK, everything you've destroyed, Petrochemy, everything, and someone might be able to solve it. The Bor mining gunnery base, to inform you of that smelter that they built and finished like the Scar on the Boden Wall, which we managed and solved in five months. It's over tomorrow and it's going to work tomorrow. Because we know everything exactly. What we write, what we say, that's how we do it. We said "Frezenius" 15 months later, and after 15 months, it's over. We agreed with the Chinese prime minister exactly the opening time of the bridge even though there were a lot of problems with the various annexes of those people and from your government know how much trouble there was and what we had to do to open everything up in time. In three months, the PKC hall, we'll finish it. Open and done. Melt room in five months. Done and done. We're just finishing the FAP to let you know. To inform you, it's another good news even though it's very difficult for us, because, in 14 years of your authority, I apologize for 12 years of your authority, and 14 years of their authority, because I count you 12, they're 14 years in power, 14 years in power is today the prime minister, but rarely remembers that he's prime minister. He usually deals with making statements and going to cafes for about one, two hours when it's business hours. I don't have time for that, to tell you the truth, I work every Saturday and Sunday, I don't go swimming and swimming on the sea, I don't go to winter, I work and fight as hard as I can. That's the difference. They can hate me all, but it's mine to work for the people and fight for the people, unlike sloths who fight for themselves. So, since you've been in power for 14 years, that FAP hasn't produced anything, and now it's going to produce. Someone's capable of handling it. You should give him your hand, congratulate him, and say, congratulations on that. That's good news, and we should also thank the case, and to God that one Finnish enthusiast, a great bizmist, one of the most successful European privates wanted to come to Serbia, to face one challenge differently, of course, and to earn, but also to face one challenge and to start making trucks again. So that's what we're working on, to let you know by January 31st, Jellyzara is resolved. You will be invited, we will organize a big celebration in Smederev, a big celebration in Smederev in front of 5,000 workers. All 5,000 workers will be invited. All the Smederans will be invited to celebrate, because I think those are the things we have to celebrate. These are important things for our country. I'll remind you that Jellyzar wasn't working when we took her over. It was in August 2012 after the Americans returned, if I am not mistaken in April 2012 or March 2012, do not hold my word. I'd like to say one more thing to all the people who are protesting in the streets, to fully understand them. I know why and how unhappy they are. But I want these people to understand a few things, and I don't think I'm courting them, or I think I'm giving in, that we have better numbers. We've got much better numbers in the last three months. If only you knew with what impatience we expect every fifteenth and every end of the month to see what our numbers are and how much effort we put into making these numbers bigger. And when we wait and see that these numbers are better, the revenues, the larger numbers on the income side, and the smaller on the bulk side, of course, there's no end to our happiness. The question has been asked -- let's spend money on something else, they'll love us more. So some say, "There's money, there's money." I'm telling you, we don't, because we want to make a healthy state. We'll make it. We've got deadlines. I told you, in 2016 you'll see big growth, and already in 2015, I'm telling you, even though the IMF predicted that by reducing the aggregate demand would be minus 0.5, I'm telling you that we'll be in the positive. I have asked for the government's mandate for only two years, 14 years you have eaten this country, 14 years you have eaten this people, 14 years you have eaten our children's future and still lecture us – don't throw it at me and threaten me. You're still giving us lectures here how and how to behave, and eight months or seven months, there's this government. Don't yell at me and don't threaten me. I didn't scare you at all. (Dejan Nikolic, from the place: what does this look like!) Who's threatening! )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17112	Please, Mr. Nikolic. Don't act like it and throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17113	What you're going to yell at, don't pretend to be braver than it is, because I know exactly what you cowards are, because you shouldn't have taken any reform measures. (Dear Shutanite throws out of the place, but it is not heard, nor understands all the noise in the hall: Who is the coward?) Who's the coward? What's this look like? No fundamental measure for the benefit of the people should have been taken. You shouldn't have taken any action.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17114	Mr. Sutanovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17115	You had no right to take action to make the people live better. (Dejan Nikolic, from the scene, but you can't hear everything from the noise, "What are you talking about, man?" What does this look like? It's a shame what you're doing! ) Is that why... [[Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene, but you can't hear everything from the noise: This is a shame. Aren't you ashamed?]] I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17116	Mr. Sutanovac, I give you a warning. [[Dear Sutanovac, throws himself out of place, but there's no noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17117	Mr. Shutanovac, you're shouting something.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17118	Mr. Sutanovac, I give you a second warning. Mr. Nikolic, I'm going to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17119	There's something you're yelling and threatening. There's something you're yelling and threatening. Everything I said, absolutely, I mean, absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17120	Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Sutanovac, I've given you two warnings. Mr. Nikolic, I gave you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17121	It's a shame you've been threatening all day. There's someone here who's not afraid of you and who can tell you you're cowards. You're just cowards and nothing else and you've been and you've stayed and you'll always be. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene, throws, but you can't hear everything from the noise: Who's a coward...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17122	Mr. Stefanovic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17123	You've been and you've remained cowards and you'll always be. [[Dejan Nikolic, from the scene, but the noise doesn't make it all sound like, "What the hell are you talking about?"]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17124	Mr. Nikolic, I'm giving you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17125	You seem to have some kind of problem as soon as someone isn't afraid of you. You seem to have a problem when you're threatening, when no one's answering you to feel like you're very strong and brave, and you're just cowards like I told you. You can yell, and you can bring in measures that will benefit the people and that are heavy you never should have and you never could, nor will you ever be able to. And get back to what you're very interested in about my resignation. Unlike you, Mr. Stefanovic, I think I own some qualities that are different. In fact, with 6% of my votes, it would be a shame for me to appear on your eyes and hold power at all costs, and you hold power at all costs with 6% of the vote and you can't move from those 6%, but with power, it's even harder for someone to move you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17126	Miss Jerkov, don't throw it away, I'll give you a warning. Mr. Nikolich...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17127	Mr. Becic, can I ask you something?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17129	Let them yell, it's okay for them. It's okay if they can do something and swear, if they can do a little bit, they'll feel easier, and they'll think at some point that instead of 6%, they have 7%, and I'm sure they'll feel a lot different than they did before.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17130	Mr. President, I must protect the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17131	Well, then you're protecting dignity. So, let's just get back to this resignation. With 6%, it wouldn't occur to me to rule anywhere, and now I'm telling you, I'm not going to be in a political life of 16% or 26%. I'll leave the party to someone else. That's what we're different about, because you have all the power. Because power is your life, because it is your authority and the source and the stream of everything, because nothing but great power you never wanted, and I want people to remember, if not today and if they're angry today, to remember that we've done something for them once, to remember that we've done something for the future of this country and how we differ. So, I promised you, at 26%, not at 6% of what you have, Mr Stefanovic, at 26%, nor when you ruled Serbia and won the elections when you didn't have, with so much as a prime minister, because I'm going to be Prime Minister, and the people don't want it, and the people think that pensions and wages should be much bigger and the country should be destroyed the way you destroyed it and destroyed it, and I think it's irresponsible and I think it's very irresponsible. I can tell you something else, if we come to a situation that we can't fight strikes, if people say and in such a way that they won't see change, that they want to extend self-government, that they like it when you get up and start yelling and threatening, as you threatened Mr. Stefanovic today with it telling him, that we'll see when someone comes down from power and repeats it repeatedly here, so you do it every day, and then you're terribly offended, you jump -- oh, there's something that's happened to us that someone called you political cowards. Well, that is. You've never been ready to do anything, nor will you... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: No, coward, political. I'm sorry, I thought you were a political coward, I didn't get into whether you were a coward in the ring, I believe you don't do boxing or anything else, I'm counting on political cowards and I was talking about it, don't do that batinian dictionary that you came with, Mr. Zivkovic... (Zoran Zivkovic throws out of place but he doesn't understand. )......................................................................................................... Leave it for the street and for the gangsters, don't bring it to parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17132	Mr. Zivkovic, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17133	I'd just like to ask you, since you wanted so much... (Marian Risticevic, from the scene: I'd like to arrest it. ) Mr. Rističević, it is the work of the authorities and I ask you not to talk about it now, they have dealt with it and will likely be dealt with by the competent state authorities. So, as far as resigning to cheer you up a little bit, not only am I ready to resign 26%, but I'm ready and different, unless we can withstand strikes, protests and people say -- we don't want that policy, we want a policy that promises us DS, an increase in wages and pensions, we want a policy in which everything will be good and ideal, as we have these 14 years as you rule the Vojvodina and as many as 12 years as you rule Serbia. Remember that in Belgrade alone, for people in Serbia to know this information, we had a budget deficit in 2013 of 20.25%. Can you people believe what it is that we inherited – 20, 25%? This year it's 10%, and next year it's going to be 7%. If that's what people in Serbia want us to go back to that, to 21%, that's the way to bankruptcy, to the destruction of Serbia. If that's what people in Serbia want, if that's what people want through their protests and strikes, if they think it's possible to get out of an arrangement with the IMF and from a government programme, except for something, I'm telling you, it's impossible. We won't do it, but no problem, if the people show it, we'll get out of the way, and we'll have no problem. We're not even born in the chair, we're not even going to die in the chair, and that's the difference between you and us, and I'm proud of that difference between you and me who's so obvious. I want to thank all the brave people in Serbia who have despised political cowards, who have never done anything brave and bold in politics should have done anything but yell at their political opponents. I want to say that I am grateful to the citizens of Serbia who support us in difficult ways, who understand what the state is, who understand what the problems of the state are, who understand what it is that we inherited and what it is that we have to do in the next period. I want to thank them for that and tell them that we will be determined as long as the people support such a policy. If the people don't want such a policy to support it, they can show us on the street every day, they can also show us in any election. You have elections in five or six days in two municipalities, and we will see in those two municipalities what the people will say. There, by the way, you've had three times as many votes as we have in the previous elections in 2012. I expect we'll be able to bring that difference down, make you only twice as successful as we are. This time we'll see if we can make it or not. In any case, I want to thank the people, to thank the citizens for understanding well what the future is for Serbia, the future for our children, what they value and respect for courage, which they do not appreciate cowardice, which they value and respect for those who work in the interests of the people, and not in their own political interest. What I'm saying is that people in Serbia end up choosing well and looking at whether you're spreading your hands out of impotence or something about the bandits... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: finish, so I'll tell you. I'm looking for a replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17134	Mr. Zivkovic, please don't act like one.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17135	I must confess, that I also give recognition to the MPs of the majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I congratulate you on the hard work you do, and I am confident that you will also accept the budget of the National Assembly. But once again, let me remind them, and where were the losses of "Er Serbia" or "Serbiagas"? From what period and what are we making up for today? Take a good look at how short legs are in a lie and how you can't deceive citizens with such untruths, as well as with stories about rebalancing as if we've done something wrong, and we've only come to praise the people that we've saved money that we've earned more than we planned the last time we spoke to the MPs. I hope that you will have more such sessions in the next year, fully convinced that we will be able to make you more than once, as well as the citizens of Serbia, happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17136	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17137	Can you just say for the MPs did you warn anyone?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17138	Yes, I did, I gave two warnings to Mr. Sutanovac and Mr. Nikolic, two warnings. (Dejan Nikolic, from the scene: How did you explain that? ) You will have to explain this on the Administrative Board.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17139	Mr. Vucicou, the Honorable Prime Minister, you have today shown an extremely high degree of anxiety, anger, even primitiveness and prosaclysm. (Zoran Babic, from the place: You who threaten not to be free?) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17140	Mr. Stefanovic, you can't replicate that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17141	Politically, yes. You don't think the prime minister's fighting in the ring, do you? So, Mr. Vukicou, no Prime Minister in the history of Serbia, the Kingdom or the Republic has spoken in this way to the MPs, as you said today. Those of you who were raised up with a loud voice spoke to us, lest I should say they were yelling at us, shouting at us, saying, "What are you shouting and threatening?" No one threatened you. You don't think from that little thing you say, DS, they can threaten someone. I was talking about a political boomerang, check it out, you weren't here to discuss it. That boomerang is political, I don't mean no harm to anyone personally, nor do we hate you, I keep saying it, but surely that political boomerang will catch up with you, 100%. As soon as they applaud you for that void and that hollow bucket you sell to the citizens of Serbia, I said well last time, you will be waiting for you on the curve. Not us, we'll be there to point out as we have so far to your mistakes, your failures, and to make suggestions that you don't like at all. I was talking about you creating a political war situation until you're extinct with the opposition, not that we're attacking you, but what you're saying about the opposition and the DS MPs, these insults you sent to us, it's unrecorded, it's rude, and I think you owe an apology to the citizens, not us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17142	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17143	I want to read to you respected citizens, all my insults have come down to being cowards. Those were all my insults. See what a man has said in two minutes for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and for the sake of the story of who is civilized, cultural, democratic, who is barbaric and who is not – anxiety, anger, primitiveism, proscalism, rude, hollow bucket, what are you yelling at? I'm not yelling, you know that's when someone takes the skin to yell, maybe I yelled, I hope I didn't, I'm sorry if I did, and I have to teach you a little language, it's not burning Mr. Stefanovic. You said, of course it would fall from power, it's understood, unlike you who never fall from power. Here you have been ruling for 14 years, and you have no idea with 6% to let go of power, and then you say, then that boomerang will come back after them, and that's all because of the persecution you mentioned in the previous sentence. You're threatening persecution, Mr. Stefanovic. I read to you, this is a stenogram, Mr. Stefanovic. You're threatening persecution. You've only got one problem, I'm not afraid of your persecution. I've been going through your persecution for 12 years, and I'm not afraid of your persecution. I'm passing by today listening to these lies you say every day, about a hollow bucket, you talk. You're talking to someone about a hollow bucket? You didn't leave a hollow bucket, you didn't leave a hollow bucket in our home, you didn't leave it in the government register, and we're starting to build the state and make what a real and serious state should look like. What were your remarks today, Mr. Stefanovic? Your remarks were: where do we travel so much? We travel much less than you, 60% less than you. We travel much less than you do in the province today. You're talking about specialized services, and these are lower amounts than your time, by the way, there are scientific workers, except you didn't know it, so you'd criticize us for it. By the way, let me inform you, you haven't answered for Er Serbia in any way, but it seems like you're not doing well, although I've been telling you about it forever. It's not good for me to have an eye, as it's called, "Serbiagas", or about "Serbiagas" that's not working for you, it's from your time. All of your obligations we have to take over and we have to pay. So what did it come down to, then, what did your objections come down to? To untruths, to nonsense, to fiction and to what you just said, to anxiety, to anger, to primitiveism, to prosacrude, whatever you want to call it. Is it my one word that you cowards, which by the way is true and which I absolutely believe, the one that made you talk all that noise, the avalanche of the most difficult insults and words, I'm pleased that you're showing your face, you're giving us travel sermons, and you've taken the official route to the Metropol Hotel and crashed the car and on that official road to the Metropol Hotel where you crashed the car, and that wasn't enough for you, I understand? It happens, the driver crashes the car, and you don't walk to the Metropol Hotel, you run a little bit, it takes you three minutes, four minutes, no more. Let me ask you on the other hand, you got out of the car. It happens, it happens, you get out of the car? I've had five accidents, but I've never escaped from the scene before, and that's where we differ. It's possible that I can see the consequences, and you don't see any consequences, you get hit by a tram or you don't get hit by a car, or you don't get hit by a car, as far as the consequences are concerned, you don't see any consequences. In the end, what's more serious, unfortunately, is that I have to answer to Mr. Becic and throw him out of the bench. I want to inform you of the losses we inherited. Namely, Er Serbia 2011 30 million, 2012 37 million, 2010 35 million but euros. Someone's got to get it back, you know. No one else will but us. All the things you haven't been able to do today we have to pay and return, and that's why we're going to fight to change that. If I were to cheer you up again, strengthen along with some tycoons of certain strikes, strengthen them, because I'm quite serious when I tell you that I don't mean force and at all cost to remain Prime Minister and you wouldn't believe how much easier it would be for me to let you do something. I have one problem, I have a son and a daughter and I don't believe it, and I don't want their future to depend on those people who brought the country to ruin, it's my only problem, and someone else, that's fine. When I go, Mr. Stefanovic, and you can soon and look forward to it, you can be surprised, you won't come, someone else will come along and don't worry about it at all, I just want to be happy to tell you that you may be positively surprised and not worry much about my survival in power because my authority isn't even a little bit. I've been President of the government for eight months, and to tell you the truth, I'm tired of preaching to all those who don't do anything and whose objections are actually about everything they've left us and what they've done to us. I'm tired of not being able to finish those things that I'd like to finish, I'm tired of saying that many of my associates can't say that something is wrong and something has to be done faster and better or I'm very bad as it is possible and I can offer you one more time before I can cheer you up, but it won't bother you to take over, someone else who will take care of this country and who will take care of the interests of these citizens and I'm absolutely sure of it, and don't mind that Serbia is different today, that Serbia is more responsible today and that Serbia no longer falls on these stories, so that Serbia knows how deep you are and how badly you destroyed it and destroyed it. That is why Serbia remembers well and Serbia looks to the future and I believe that Serbia knows well where to whom, how and when to choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17144	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic. Replica two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17145	I'm really telling you there's no hate, Mr. Wolfie, I'm telling you. I think it's a bit comical, tragic when someone's trying to scare the people with a resignation, a man who's retreated twice from politics and trampled his word. I don't know if the citizens remember that Mr. Vukic here in front of the City Assembly turned around and said, "I'm leaving politics, I'm tired of the edge of Dacic, I'm sick of yellow." So, what's up with that? Nothing. Here, I'll take your word for it, Mr. Wolfie. I believe that you are a man who is still able to find that honor within himself, and if you fall to 26% or you can't handle the strikes, as you said, you will withdraw. Serbia will rise not because we offer higher salaries, not because we offer higher pensions, but because we have proved in this assembly that you did not have to reduce them, not to increase them. That's the difference and that's what you won't hear. ‘Srbiagas’. Who was the director of "Srbigas"? Who is the director of "Srbigas" today? Same man. What are you yelling at me for? Who ran the JAT? Is that Dinkic you put in government? What are you yelling at me for? You say Vojvodina spends more, even five times, imagine what you said? Duke of Travel, dear citizens, 109 million dinars. Serbia's 6.5 billion dinars. Of course the difference and of course Er Serbia is bigger, please. So I'm saying that, but six and a half billion, and Vojvodina 109 million, shame on them. (Alexander Wolfie, from the place: Where? Well, here's the budget, they didn't inform you. Item 422, Mr. Wolfie. I have to tell you that I don't want to speak any bad words at all, I'm just asking you one thing at the end...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17146	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17147	... When you call the representatives of the former regime, decide whether or not you'll call them at the opening or arrest them. You've got to make up your mind once, and we'll only call you if you do anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17148	Time, Mr. Stefanovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17149	Those who stand for arrest will be arrested. I'm being pressured to do, like, political arrests or I don't know what, don't try. Whoever is a criminal will be arrested, whoever committed the crime will be arrested. That decision is made by the D.A., we have a prosecutor's investigation, and you've appointed the prosecutor, just to remind you and tell us that he's the best in the world. You're saying here that you proved to us that we shouldn't have spent. You should have, Mr. Stefanovic, you don't know it or you know it, so pretend you don't know it. Are you telling me the IMF doesn't know what they're saying, that the Germans don't know what they're saying, that nobody knows what they're saying but you know what you're saying? You know everything well. You don't talk about it with them. When you're with them, then keep your mouth shut about the Labour Act, because they praise the Labour Act and say it's the essence of the reforms we've been through, which you shouldn't have done because you were cowards. They all know it and everyone in the world understands everything perfectly, as our citizens are determined to understand. As for the word, Mr. Stefanovic, you have 6% today, you hold the power, you squeeze it, you don't give it as if your life is a question. Every day, you lecture everyone about how they want to bring something sacred and something miraculously important to you, but we don't give 6% of ours and give our chairs at any price or for a living. You're talking to me about it. Maybe you're right, maybe like this, maybe like that. I think it was good for the country that after the difficult things, when the Serbian Radical Party fell apart, which I was going through, and I don't hide it, and I never hid it, I stayed in politics, because if anything, I brought our people victory over you, I contributed to that victory, at least a little bit to that victory. I have contributed to winning the future over those who live in the past, over those who always transfer someone else's past, and in fact the only thing they can do is live in the past in the 1990s, because without the 1990s, they're nothing. That's why they'd put everything back in the '90s so they'd be somebody again. It's been a while. It's past the time of the robbery privatisation, past the kidnapping time. The time has come, of course, to pay the bills, but the time has come when we as a people have to pay the bills. It's time we didn't lie and tell the truth. Robert Kennedy told – in the end, it is best to tell the people the truth. We chose between those two times. You think you've seen better in the budget, we're deadlocks, you know the budget better than we have, which we've been working on for four months. So you tell us, you could not reduce wages and pensions. (National MP Vesna Marjanovic throws out of place. Please don't throw it at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17150	Mrs. Marjanovic, please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17151	So, just so people know that for travel costs, what Mr. Stefanovic read to us, it's not the government's travels, it's the travels of every policeman, every inspector, the transportation of children, and it's involved in our travel expenses. What can I tell you, dear friends, so much for the truth that Mr. Stefanovic says. I want to say for the sake of the citizens of Serbia why we did all this and why someone would be motivated to do this in this way. There are two options -- either you want to run a cowardly policy, we'll make it easy for politics, just to go another day and nothing more, or you'll be leading a policy of courage, in which you'll sacrifice yourself, but to do something good for your country and something good for your people. That's why I've rightly said everything I think about them, and I'm not changing it, and I'm pretty sure that's why some other people have a political future. I am a political present, I don't know how much longer a political future, but I certainly know that those who have no reform capacity in Serbia do not have a political future. I apologize for telling the truth, I apologize for saying it to her in person, I apologize for not being afraid to say it, no matter how many times you get up, yell, threaten or don't know what you're doing. I think Serbia deserves a serious commitment. The head of the EU delegation in Serbia, and I guess you are a party that is for the European path, we are the ones who later came, who have learned from you and who are no Europeans, but this European Commission chief in Belgrade says Serbia should be proud of the measures the Serbian government has taken. The German ambassador says -- this Vukic, this Vucic, has taken many important, good and smart steps, in his interview today, not since five months ago, he says today. It looks like the German ambassador is either not from a good country or not a good ambassador. The people of the IMF, the World Bank, the IBRD everywhere say, from all these organizations say – the best budget, we sign a deal with you, we make a deal with you. It is the first time that Serbia becomes a safe country for future generations. You say, "It's no good." You're smarter than anyone, I guess. We're all very stupid, and you're the only one who's smart, only you know how we're supposed to pay back JAT's debts or not. You said today – it is because of the loss of Er Serbia. That came out on all the news. How can you not be ashamed to say such false things? How can you not be ashamed to say such lies to the citizens of Serbia? You said that's why we made rebalancing to cover the losses of Er Serbia. How can you not be ashamed? People are proud of their national company, which has finished profitablely, you will get the most famous report in February of the Odator House. For the first time in history, we have that our national airline is doing a positive job and instead of boasting about it, you're going to tear it down in every place. Is that the policy you're defending? It's not politics. The policy I advocate, yes, come, Mr. Tadic, come to Mr. Cvetkovic, yes, come to the bridge, because you signed the contract with Dinkic. Cvetkovic signed it. We started paying him and making payments to the end and solving the problems of annexes and subcontractors and everything else. We didn't have any problem with that. You wonder and say – it's a nice summit, how much is that summit, 16 plus one? You say, "How much does this summit cost?" Is that bad? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: It is bad. Yes, that's very bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17152	Mr. Stefanovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17153	Just throw it in. I'll answer every pitch. I've got enough courage and strength and energy and knowledge to answer you and every cast. It's bad, and I'll tell you how much it costs. It cost only 800,000 euros, and 4.5 million were given only in one donation from the Chinese government, just so much. These are the minimum costs for such a great summit, as you know. Here, you've got the answer. There's an answer for everything, because we're acting responsible and we're being serious, we're being thrifty. We raised Serbia in international frameworks. The Chinese Prime Minister has been in our country for four days. Instead of saying – congratulations, this is a wonderful and beautiful event, I want to participate in it and to say with pride – please, look, this is the whole of Serbia, here is that 6%. Not only 94%, but 100% of Serbia has come here to greet you and to say that we are all proud to have you here together, Mr. Prime Minister of China. You remembered to say – how much is it? Would you like me to tell you how much your meetings cost, would you like me to read to you, where there were no prime ministers, and they cost a million and a million and 200,000 euros each? No prime minister, nor was ours there at those gatherings. Whoever pleases God, look at another fact. I want people in Serbia to know, this is the first budget in Serbia's modern history where our nominal expenditures are lower than the previous year. So, nominally, I'm not saying that you're taking any clause, our nominal expenditures are lower. That means we're on our way to big savings. We looked very conservatively at the incomes, very conservatively. Now I'm telling you, I think, and I expect these revenues to be greater than what we've done in this draft budget, and that's why I hope we'll come with new rebalances, and those who support you, at least you MPs, teach them not to make fun of it and not joke with that rebalancing, if we rebalance that we have more money, not less money. That we saved money, not spent it. That we made money, and not that we were incompetent. That's why, because of these few last sentences, I wanted to come, so people would understand the nature of everything we've done and everything we've done in the past, I think we've managed to do. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17154	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Mr. Zivkovic, on what grounds is your report? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Replica, mentioned in the prime minister's presentation. I don't think you deserve a replica with your street manners and threats. Here, the word is Borislav Stefanovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from place: Stoko one. Mr. Zivkovic... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Go ahead. Mr. Zivkovic, I give you my first warning. Mr. Zivkovic, I give you a second warning. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You can... Mr. Zivkovic, I give you a third warning. I'm looking for a distance from Mr. Zivkovic's session. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Please. That when you're president of the assembly, then you can, uh, say... ) Mr. Zivkovic, the stenogram contains your threats that you have referred to, and before that, which you referred to the Prime Minister. Your street behavior, your behavior like you're in a bar, from a place, your throwing away all the time while Mr. Prime Minister spoke and you're looking for a replica now. Mr. Zivkovic, it's beyond any foundation, the behaviour of the MP. I'm interrupting the session. I'm taking a break. I'm asking security to follow your instructions. A five-minute break. I ask security to follow the president's instructions. A notice of distance from the session has been issued. Please, Mr. Zivkovic, follow the Rules of Procedure. (Dragan Šutanovac throws out of place.) ) Mr. Sutanovac, you know the Rules of Procedure very well, two warnings have been made, and then there is the notice of distance from the session in the Rules of Procedure. (Sendants of the DS are getting out of place. You've received two warnings, not a third. You heard it, it's in the stenogram. I'm asking security to follow the order of the chairman. I ask the MPs to take their seats, we continue our work. We continue to work, by order of the word has an authorised representative... Mr. Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17155	Mr. Chairman, honourable government representatives, MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, I cannot tell you the honorable, unfortunately, your behavior...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17156	Mr. Sutanovac, I take your word. (DS MEETING INDISTINCTLY) You cannot destroy the dignity of the National Assembly in such a way. If you want civilized, no threats to speak, go ahead. If you don't want to, you won't get the word. Mr. Sutanovac, you know very well about your behavior in the National Assembly, where we have evictions, threats. We can take out the stenograms a month ago, see if the public sees how you behave in the National Assembly. Here you go, civilized and conveniently high home.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17157	I don't just know where you heard any threats or any ugly words.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17158	You've been talking all day. We'll take out the stenograms, present them to the public so they don't know I'm wrong. Your time is running out, Mr. Sutanovac. Tell me which member I hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17159	Article 107. Give me back my time. Mr. Chairman, you've broken down on many occasions...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17160	You have just violated a member of the National Assembly’s dignity, and it is immoral to call upon that member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17161	Mr. Chairman, you have violated Article 107 on several occasions. You've allowed the Prime Minister in a completely inappropriate way so far. I hope this expression suits you. I didn't say a word...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17162	Mr. Sutanovac, I think you're violating the Rules of Procedure by referring to a breach of the Rules of Procedure that has not been done. Bajato behaviour in the National Assembly had the opportunity to see the public and our citizens, where your MP group acted in the bar atmosphere when Mr. Prime Minister presented his part of the Budget Proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17163	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17164	You can't go on like that. I ask you to adapt to the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17165	I'll adapt to you. In a nice, polite address, the highly inspired lyrical address of the prime minister of Serbia, who is now laughing because he is pleased with all of this, which is the master of Serbia in epic terms... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17166	Mr. Sutanovac, it's not worth it. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: How can I explain? ) Does anyone else report for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, since Mr. Sutanovac doesn't want it? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: can I try again? You can't, sir. You tried three times. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I'm serious. Mr. Sutanovac, you have two warnings. You know what the third one is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17167	Since I don't have that much time to waste on lyrical and epic debates, and I know that you, Mr. Sutanovac, don't even know what lyrical is and even less what is epic, but I would ask you just to get back to the budget debate, if possible. I have a few more very important information for the citizens, which I skipped in my previous presentation. I just got that information. It's about losses in 2008 and 2009. I suppose there was also a Serbian Progressive Party in power then, or don't I know who already? There were much bigger losses then. So then we had 51m and 46m euros in losses and these are the losses we will also have to make up for. However, we have reached a certain agreement and managed to beat that up with the debts of these public enterprises, so that the state will eventually have to pay about half the amount, which is good news for the citizens. As for the words we heard, the words in which you spoke about anxiety, and of all the hard words I said, it was that I called you cowards or political cowards, whatever you want, which I don't give up, which I think, and what all the citizens of Serbia think, you are the president of the National Assembly, your MP, elected on your list, he called it cattle. And now you say yes. If that's great for you, it's good for people in Serbia to hear that they say -- cattle one, syntagmas, used by people from the Democratic Party, or elected on the DS list, are exactly the ones that best talk about their democratic capacity, about how they want to get their hands on the authorities. I have already told you, I will make it easy for you, but do not burn any more, and do not lynch any more. He can do anything, but he can do it quietly, he can do it in the election, he can do it any way you want. Just don't call people cattle anymore, like God please, and don't lynch anyone, like some people were lynched just because they thought otherwise. It was lynched and Dragan Milanovic and many others, so you kept quiet and hid it from showing up anywhere and not being seen anywhere. 20 of you, a strong man, very brave, have gathered together to lynch a 66-67-year-old man, enthusiastically, and we seem to have forgotten that. But there are people who, as you can see, are allowed to remind you and are not afraid of you at all. I am not as fascinated by your lyric or your epic, since I know well how much you know about it, just as much as you know about the budget and just as well would your lyric and epics, as well as your calls for lynch, as well as that – cattle one, just as well as your politics have brought good to this people. That is why I am sure and believe in both the Serbian people and the Serbian citizens, that they have also been able to always choose the future for their country and their people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17168	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. The word came from Marko Djurisic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17169	Thank you, Your Honor. I ask you, in accordance with article 101, to set a break and make a college, so that we can have this debate on the budget and other laws that are on the agenda today to continue as we have done most of the day. This in the last hour, unfortunately, is not like an argument on the agenda. There's a lot of violations of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you, if you'd like to contribute to this debate, let's take a break. Call a college and let's discuss how we're going to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17170	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. All MPs can make every effort to discuss the points of the agenda. (Alexandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović and Dejan Nikolic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, the word has a folk MP, Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17171	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Serbian Government... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17172	Please don't throw Miss Jerkov away. I ask the MPs of the Democratic Party not to threaten or win. (Dejan Nikolic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nikolic, don't throw it away. Here you go, Miss Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17173	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I address you on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia. We MPs, like most of our colleagues, have been very careful to read and analyse the provisions of amendments and additions, i.e. the budget rebalance for 2014, as well as the draft budget law for 2015, as well as the follow-up set of financial laws. Already in that analysis, we found enough arguments to decide to vote and support this set of amendments and additions and budget rebalances in 2014 and the 2015 Budget Law and accompanying financial and legal laws. Today, listening to this debate in a very high-quality dialogue with government representatives, with respected ministers and agriculture minister, and with the Prime Minister, we have found further arguments that clarify the intention of budget rebalancing in 2014, as well as the 2015 Budget Law. Reflecting on the reasons why the SPS would specifically support these proposals, it was enough to look at the structure, i.e. the graphics of the cost structure of the functional budget classification for 2015, which says that 33.3% will be allocated for social protection and that education will be singled out 12.7% of the total expenditure of the future budget for 2015, which is in line with our social democratic orientation, in line with citizens' interests. In this budget, a cut in different items can be found a lot of arguments both for and against. Today, especially after a recent debate, I've been thinking about why the fear of such a committed budget proposal? My conclusion is that it will not be that the word savings is the most terrifying Serbian word, that it is the most terrifying word that the most citizens fear in Serbia. The Prime Minister inspired me, he really vividly presented it, when he said that Serbian citizens are ahead of the fate election, whether they will define themselves, support the policy of saving and policy of long-term change for the better, or be defined for those colorful lies that some politicians have placed on the political scene and which have thus lost the citizens' trust. Let me just plastically remind the citizens that all of us, including myself, believed one minister who was in charge of the portfolio of finance, who promised citizens that from the privatisation process, all of us full-time citizens would get 1,000 euros. It was very easy to believe this promise of a thousand euros, easily made, then a public mockery, but why are we all now afraid of this 10% reduction in wages and pensions? So we have to face reality. Minister Vujovic also said at the beginning of his presentation that he wants this budget back in real terms, in real terms. He said that this budget should actually be and is in line with citizens' expectations. Recently, a public opinion survey was published a day or two ago. Of course, I will not read you the rating of our political parties, but I will quote to you exactly those expectations of citizens who say that the biggest problems in their perspective are health problems, i.e. the right to health, then the reduction of unemployment and the creation of new jobs, the improvement of their everyday life, as well as the fight against corruption and crime, the economic development of the country, foreign investment, major works on infrastructure, roads, bridges. We had the honor of watching as the bridge was recently opened. Lastly, to me, it was surprising, in the last, almost the last place, education and strong armed forces. It is again something consistent with the expenditure structure of this draft budget, which is for 2015, because they say the education I mentioned is 12.7%, while the defence and public order and security portfolio together has 14.5%. So I'm stressing that for social protection, most of it is singled out, which is 33.3%, or one-third. Today, various ministers presented strategic orientations of their resolutions. We Serbs usually like to compare ourselves with the greatest. When I read the draft budget, in fact, the final figures on how much the expenditure, how much revenue, how much deficit, I thought that actually, these decouplings, which are in the amount of, when you turn the dinars into euro, say, 8.5 billion euros, are ten times less than the largest tobacco companies in the world make a profit, and we get excises from selling their products. Minister Vujovic stressed, not only the expectations of citizens, that this budget should be in line with citizens' expectations, but also positive trends that have indeed been seen in the past few months, that financial discipline has increased, that tax revenues have been increased, from excise duties, and we also see black on white and data that unemployment has been reduced. The Minister for Labour and Employment said the future budget envisioned that active employment measures should cover 123,000. I've been looking at the data on how many active employment measures they've given over the past few years. So, out of about 109.000, as in the previous period, 95% of the unemployed were included in these measures, and 22% of the total number that took part in the active employment measures managed to get a job. So, Serbia wants to face reality and Serbia's citizens know very well that the policy she spoke -- sell, sell Serbian factories, tax extra profits, spend, invest in consumption, and be in debt, that this is no longer sustainable for the longer term. Not only because of us, we can very easily agree here in parliament to find some easy way out of this crisis situation, but simply Europe, the European Union, here is the European Integration Minister present, knows very well that we are under EU monitoring and that we have a task that is defined not only for Serbia, but for all European countries that wanted to co-operate and who wanted to work seriously and that products in those 35 negotiating chapters. Prime Minister Vukic has already stressed that our goal is to reduce the debt debt burden to between 70% and 80%. This already exists in our pre-accession programme, the economic programme from 2014 to 2016. These are concrete figures. We also mentioned various titles that may misread reality, but let's not let it scare people the most if we put the bauk's savings circulating with Serbia. We are, unfortunately, used to economic denials, not only since the early 1990s, but since 1981, when it was announced during the former Yugoslavia that the former Yugoslavia was in charge of $20 billion. So far, our problem has grown more and more, and that is why it is good and adequate to use that word: "political courage", not collecting political points, when you have to confront the citizens, when you tell them that this armed austerity policy will be in two, three years, but that after that, the future generation will live better. Recently, a group of MPs from the Serbian parliament were in Germany's Bundestag, and there, the German MPs told us with pride that after 40 years Germany had adopted a budget that had no deficit. So for 40 years, this has lasted, and that is why we too have to join the fight, or financial consolidation, to present ourselves in the world as serious economists, as good businessmen, as a valuable and flexible workforce, which will attract these foreign investments. I was also inspired today by the exposure of the minister of the economy, who lays great faith, based on my personal experience, in the small and medium sectors. He was talking about the potential of the small and medium sector. I would point out that what's written in the Small Business Act that says: think about the small first. Serbia is tempted to build large infrastructure projects and investments, to attract not only infrastructure, but also energy, but also those subsidies that may have been wrongly or correctly given to attract foreign investors to offer responsibility now, to manage and to Serbian entrepreneurs. So, all that we've been saying today, what we're hoping for and haven't solved in the past 14 years or since 2004, when it started selling Serbian economy and Serbian factories, it's really high time for us to face it and we're trying to solve it as we know and know it, but also with the great help of those experts who've already tried it on the case of other countries. They were also recently here, we Serbs like to compare ourselves with these Asian tigers, the South Korean MPs who said that these restrictive fiscal consolidation measures proposed by the IMF, that they had chosen to do so, so to speak, in two years' time. We have put those measures on the table for three years, and I think that with some new culture of financial responsibility, a new culture of work, because we are good workers, everyone knows that, our workers when they go west and as gasters, we will do hard jobs, much harder than they do in Serbia, which means we have potential. Here they have also given concrete parameters in these documents, in these bill proposals, where it is said that savings on wage cuts and pensions will amount to 3.1 billion dinars. It was also pointed out by Minister Vujovic, that at the moment when the contribution of wages to GDP does not exceed that level of 7%, i.e. the participation of pensions in GDP, 11%, that it can already be more flexible to think about the possible adjustment of these salaries and pensions that must now be reduced. What we who may have been born in the former economic system know, which hasn't produced good results since the fall of communism, is that so-called. the agreed economy. So, we have to fight this political capitalism, and some of us are, some of us haven't read Marks, and they're very good already from that capital, since we lived in socialism, they knew the rules of the game in the capitalist system. Today, it is very difficult to remain on the labour market, but simply to face reality gives strength, because we see some other countries in our close environment progress. If Croatia succeeded, if Slovenia succeeded, if Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria succeeded, why couldn't Serbia? So it's one face-to-face with reality. We ourselves pay the bills of our delusions, perhaps excessive consumption, but it is good that this account of our delusions and our financial or economic irresponsibility do not expose it to future generations. Our time, political time is at hand. We within the SPS, you may have seen it at our congress, Dacic said he would always be ready to retire. I'm thinking about that date in 2020. These measures have been laid down for three years since 2018. I really think that it is a great task for all of us to stabilise our finances and our economy by 2020, so the SPS MPs will vote in favour of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17174	Thank you, Mrs. Vukomanovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17175	Thanks to Mrs Vukomanovic, I would just like to say once again that I have spent many years in parliament, that there have been difficult and all sorts of debates, but that these words "stoko one" used by the MP elected on the list of former regimes, I do not remember anyone using them in such a way in the Assembly ever. But it wasn't the end, I want to let you know that here in front of the O.R., the same man said I should pass the alcohol test, although I guess it's clear to everyone that I've come from work. He also called the chairman of the National Assembly "conductor", and so on. So it doesn't matter much. In any case, I believe that these ugly things will remain in the past and that whenever the elections come for another term, people will pay one more attention to who they trust. As far as our exposure is concerned, there's only one thing I'd like to say is that pensions aren't 10% reduced, I'm not talking about your intention, bad, total pension cuts are at 5.08%, so you know. Of course, we're reducing some 12%, but that's a small number of people, and some of which is most people, we don't touch pensions at all, 60% of pensioners don't touch at all. So, 60% of pensions to those who are up to the average pension, we haven't touched them at all because we wanted to preserve their social security. Of course, those people we've touched in that part have the right to be angry with us, and of course they can blame us, but I believe that these people, better than everyone else, understand how important our measures are and how focused we are on both their future and the future of our children. I think pensioners better than all the other people understand how important these measures are. I just want one more thing. Why did I react? I reacted not because of the percentage, each of them interprets them as they wish in our country, and that's the story from a little while ago, when the dinar loses a value of 0.1% that's the main news, when the dinar increases the value by 0.9% it's not news anywhere. I forgot to tell you earlier, when we had a 28% drop in dinars compared to the euro in those three years, in which some others ruled, it was therefore defended with 4.5 billion euros and was not defended, 28%. And now we have three comas something percent for the same time period of three years. We don't always have the same arches, but there's something about us that we always like to complain, complain and see negative things, and about these things with gasoline. The point of my reaction is that you said the measures were limited to three years. The arrangement and our contract and agreement with the IMF are limited by three budgets, but this does not mean that it will be three years, especially when it comes to reduction of wages and pensions. So we have another norm that solves it and I think it solves it in the most honest way possible. We say that the principles of responsible fiscal governance require the reduction of expenditure on salaries and pensions, that is what we agreed with the IMF, at a sustainable level, so that it will strive to make the participation of the general government salary in the gross domestic product up to 7%, i.e. the participation of pensions in the gross domestic product up to 11%. To translate that into a national language, or a more regular national language, so, the second we create that new value, why am I so happy with the Irons? Because the Jellyzars are supposed to be looking forward to both pensioners and other workers. Why am I so looking forward to Topionica tomorrow in Bora? Why I am so looking forward to all of these coming, both FAP and Azotari and MSK, not only because of these people who will be employed, which is 1,400 in Azotara, in MSK 600 people, 5,020 people are in Smederevo, in FAP is about 1,000 – 1,200 people. So, to all of this, when we increase our gross domestic product, our share of wages and pensions falls, and that second we can make a decision about increasing wages and pensions. So it all depends on how we work and make money. That's why I was saying how important it was, it was the essence of my coming that ordinary people understood it. That all the messengers of the people understand. It's all up to us. If we work and make money, if we work hard, we don't have a problem, we'll raise wages and pensions. Then we'll further boost the aggregate demand and we won't have a problem. We have to meet these standards, which means we have to significantly increase GDP. And that means we have to work on major infrastructure projects, which is why we agreed on Belgrade – Budapest. That's why in 2016 we'll have more miles of highways than Germany. It's Germany, believe it or not. We ended up, even though it went unnoticed, we finished the Ub – Lykovac highway, the one we cried so much for. But we weren't going to get a picture, nobody to show anything. We finished it, but it was misprogrammed and it's going out of the field, it ends up in the field. Don't blame anyone, please. Get out of the field, get out of the field. We will finish the journey before the term Ljig – Čačak. Significantly ahead of schedule. We are left to connect Lykova – Ljig, three shares, Lykova – Ljig, Ub – Obrenovac and Obrenovac – Surčin. It's all over. All the jobs are divided now we're left with these people to finish the job. At the end of 2016, it is 30 April 2017, I think we will be able to open the highway from Belgrade to Cačka before the end of 2016. Somewhere at that time or shortly after that, we will open the Belgrade railway – Budapest. We'll have an open and eastern leg and the southern leg of Corridor 10 fully open. We've never done so much work and done so much work. Never. I know people say -- yeah, that's good, that's important, when I'm going to feel it. When we have more of these, when GDP increases, then we will be able to raise salaries in the public sector, we have not touched wages in the private sector. You will also see with this reduction there will be less pay cuts and less net earnings than many expected. It won't be anywhere near 10%. You'll see about four or four and a half percent. And it will slowly be replaced, and in the next three, four months it will return to the same level. So I want people to know it's up to us. Korea and China, when you talk about, say, these great dragons of the Asian economy, in the 1990s, Korea entered into an arrangement, I'm talking about South Korea, the capital of Seoul. So they entered into an arrangement with the IMF for two years. They've finished the arrangement. They no longer had an arrangement, but they acted as if they had an arrangement for another six years, a total of eight years. Today it's one of the strongest economies. Estonia has managed to implement measures similar to those we are carrying out. Today Estonia is a very stable and very successful country. I was proud to point out that, and that is why many abroad still praise Serbia today, because they recognized that courage compared to political cowardice, compared to the cowardice of every species that ruled this country. Because the essence of government was -- let me survive another day, let's make another combination and pass that one more day, and we don't care about the future. That philosophy has changed, and as you can see, I'm not ashamed to repeat it a hundred times. And it's a fundamental change. It's a fundamental change. Now we're dealing with the future, not the present. Now we also deal with those who come and those who come before us, not what we should do only today or tomorrow. Tomorrow, do not forget the melting room that was every man's dream in Bora, tomorrow finally opens. It'll breathe cleaner air. That's one thing I'd say is even a side thing compared to how many people's heath will hire and how many new profits, if we import the concentrate, the profit will be 10m euros. If we are able to find a strategic partner or someone who would finance the opening of discoveries in Cerovo and Majdanpek, then it will go to over 27, 28, maybe 30 million euros in pure profit, and raising GDP is dramatically going up as soon as you get the ore out. That's what we were getting ready for. We, on Friday, also want to inform the citizens, we open on Friday in the West Dark and start producing the first 10,000 tons of coal. We've managed to lower the water, we've come and set up the first 700 meters of tape, if I'm not mistaken, Sasha. We've already set up the first 700 meters of tape and we're leaving on Friday... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I'm just looking for a word. Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17176	Please, do it the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17177	: So, in more than a dozen meters we have knocked down the lake level and I believe that we will succeed in the next period to raise the gross domestic product again and sometime by the end of April, May, do not guarantee you exactly in the month, I believe that we can also start producing 25,000 extra tons. It also affected our GDP declines, our growth rates and everything else. These are serious things that the government does and will always do. What I think is important is that people in Serbia know that these things are not easy and easy to achieve and they don't come overnight. If someone thinks they can do otherwise, go ahead, show us how, just don't repeat the models you've already shown, or the models you've been showing and using for 14 years, and everyone's getting worse and the country's just falling apart. This is a major attempt at a major and significant turnover and must be attended by citizens of Serbia. That's why I said we can't do it without citizens. If the citizens think it's possible that we strike every day and that's the way out, because I see a lot of people looking forward to it and only showing posters or posters in which the revolution will be the only solution, well, here you have it. It's right here. Just don't lynch anyone like you've done before. You'll have it right away. Here, show what you know and all of a sudden all the investors are going to run away and all of a sudden all those who speak positively about Serbia today, and that's both Europe and Russia and the IMF and the World Bank and Ibiardi, that's all you ask about Serbia, all of them speak well and positively. Ask them what they will say about Serbia then? They speak positively because they have finally seen the implementation of the right and true reform measures, because they have finally seen a serious country behave, although it is in southern Europe, because it is rare in countries in southern Europe that you have such brave measures to take. That's why I'm happy, happy and proud, but we do it ourselves, it's impossible. We need our people, our people. If our people won't, we don't have the right to force them to. No one will whip or in any other way make people measure. If most people are against it, go ahead, choose those who will carry out these easy and beautiful measures, no matter what future you will have and not the future on a long stick, as we usually say, but the future in six months, a year or two, to be. I'm not ready to gamble with the future. And I'm willing to take the risks of political responsibility and I don't think I've ever shown it once. But believe me, I am overjoyed and overjoyed by the fact that I have never and will never want to gamble with the future of both Serbs and all citizens of Serbia. I don't think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17178	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Miss Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure, when was the breach of the Rules of Procedure done? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: If you allow me to explain, you will hear. You have to do it directly after you've done the injury. Now, at this point in exposure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17179	Mr. Becic, those two minutes are just about to explain why we think the Rules of Procedure was injured. It may seem at first sight that it's a procedural matter, and it's very important to us. I don't know if you know the attitude of Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, which obliges you as chairman, to indicate to the one who wishes to indicate that you have violated the Rules of Procedure by your actions, give the word immediately. I was reported before you gave the Prime Minister your word, before that I was also reported as well on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which seemed to me familiar to you when you gave Mrs. Vukomanovic your word and it seems to me that there were several such MPs. To remind you that article 27 obliges you to conduct this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not as you think of it, or as can be heard in the transmission as Mr. Vukic ordered... Why now this, what kind of way is this? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17180	You can't do that to expose the breach of the Rules of Procedure and yet call for the injury that was done yesterday, today, a few days ago. Please, Miss Jerkov, that's enough, I haven't broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Yes) Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Miss Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17181	Thank you. I will, of course, comment and I am glad that Mrs Vukomanovic gave the opportunity to say something in the context of European integration. I have not answered the floor so far, because there are more invited than I to talk about the budget, but certainly the budget is an inevitable element of economic European integration and of course it is something that we must analyse from the aspect of our economic part of European integration. What is important, and I think it should be highlighted this time, is that we do not fall into one of the traps of thinking that this budget is due to any imposed conditions by the EU or any obligations arising from the European integration process at this stage. On the contrary, this stabilising budget, which is quite restrictive and as we say, is stabilising, but which does not ignore the development component, shows our willingness and responsibility as a government to engage in a broader process that exists and is active in the new composition of the European Commission, which, among other things, the new President of the European Commission Junker himself has declared, is the stabilisation of the economy, new jobs and, of course, what is called, new economic governance, as a special and new segment of the beauty of fiscal and monetary measures that need to stabilise the economy. Therefore, as a candidate country, we are obliged to follow what the EU is doing, but not to fall into a trap and that citizens do not think that we are doing this because it has imposed on us the EU. On the contrary, this government has indeed set out courageously and resolutely to implement these measures that should lead to the recovery of the Serbian economy and that is what we are discussing today. The measures that previous governments did not want, whether they were not allowed or not to implement, and that is the essence. So if we do not succeed in these reforms, we will both citizens and the government suffer the consequences. Therefore, criticism should be a post-festum, criticism refers to whether we will be truly prepared, resolved and effective in implementing such measures. To criticise such measures that have been adopted in accordance with all that one, as we have heard today, a conservative and rigid institution, such as the IMF, supports and says – that, this guarantees that in a year or two, even they are more optimistic than we are, to bring concrete improvements, to benefit our citizens, and that is the essence of the change in this cancer towards European integration, which means that it is not the essence of opening chapters, if a concrete improvement of citizens do not feel how we justify the policy of European integration, by opening one or two chapters, and citizens living worse. So, the bottom line is that these measures, fiscal consolidations, measures that, among other things, are increasing the revenue side, which I think very well and positively, because I'm surprised that it wasn't welcomed today by the opposition representatives, and I can understand the skepticism, I can understand the criticism somewhat, but I can't understand that everything that's part of one broad and European at the end of the day, the model of economic behavior and economic discipline, is being targeted by criticism, and it hasn't yet started to produce results. It's the first thing and I really rarely use some hard words, but I think that the historical and breaking segment of this kind of adoption, this kind of way of making a budget, makes sense, not because the government is the best in the world, but because the government has shown its determination. I think all citizens of our country, although they are not happy and satisfied with these reforms, say – well, one must begin. It may not be fair and it may not be fair to start right now, everyone will think that, but I'm sure this government has absolute support for citizens to start changing and reforming, which in the medium term will bring improvement. The budget itself in the context of European integration, once again, otherwise the EU Strategy, the new Strategy says three criteria are important for candidate countries. The first criterion, of course, remains the rule of law. The second criterion is to reform the state administration or the public sector as a broader, therefore, concept or syntagma, on the other hand, the state administration and the third economic governance, which we mentioned. Otherwise, economic governance, of course, now that I don't explain what these measures are, there are economists who may be better than me to explain it, but the bottom line is that you get into a level and a number of European countries, EU members are now trying to bring their public finances into order. This means that, according to master's instructions, you have to have a maximum of 3% of the GDP deficit, you have to have about 60%, up to 60% of the public debt. We are, therefore, above these, well, we are a candidate country, but I have to make it simple for our citizens to know, that EU members, for example, France, Italy and France, and Italy, which are the second and third economies of size within the euro area, have come to the conclusion that the European Commission warns them that, for example, official Paris in 2015 must have a budget deficit of 4.3%. So above the 3% line, as prescribed by the European Union. Four more member states in Spain, Malta, Austria and Portugal exceed the required level of deficits, but are given a little more time to bring order than France. It's no excuse for our economy, but we have to be realistic, where we are truly inherited and someone here from the opposition mentioned the mirror. Yes, in that mirror when you look at it, then you see very well what you inherited and how the reform process began. Therefore, projections that we will line up in a year and a half to two of our public finances, I think they can only be encouraging and it welcomes an absolutely international public that is relevant to us as the EU, as the IMF, other international financial institutions. Only two other things, I think, I would say very important, none of the candidate countries in the Western Balkans have begun to implement such reforms. So, we are the only country that, in addition to these budget-related reforms, to stabilise the economy through the budget, has come to the conclusion that it has begun to prepare in co-operation with the European Commission the process of developing a national economic reform programme that will form the basis for defining this, mainly the medium-term macroeconomic fiscal framework for implementing structural reforms, that is the European Commission's requirement and we are already in the process. The second thing that I think is important is that, and of course also citizens' MPs know, we are the first country of the region to form the National Investment Board in the area of infrastructure where we are chaired, we are co-chaired by the finance minister and I as a national IPA coordinator and there is the aim of ensuring the close co-operation of all relevant and national institutions and the European Commission and development partners and international financial institutions with regard to the source of funding of priority infrastructure projects. This is what the European Commission welcomes, it is otherwise the continuation of the start-up Berlin process and the Berlin Conference for the Western Balkan countries, we are ahead of it, we have a lot of initiatives and in any case this budget that we are discussing today and which we hope to adopt this week, I think it will be a very good signal and I don't think already, I can say that I am sure that we will get very good assessments of both the EU and all other relevant institutions, but I say this is all just added value in terms of what is the priority goal, which is that we see good results and positive results in a year or two, or two of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17182	I thank Miss Joksimovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17183	Just two things. So whether we succeed or not, it doesn't depend more on our determination, we're determined to show and there will be no giving in to anyone. So there's only two options possible. It is possible to implement measures, we can stick to a strict plan and get the country out of crisis, get the country out of the big problems it's been in for decades or on the other hand, we won't be able to carry out it, so let someone else do it. So, that someone is putting pressure on us by yelling a day, two or five, or threatening through the media that I don't know what they're going to do unless they get what they think or think they should get, I tell you right now and I resent everyone again – it won't bear fruit. We made a plan after many years. For the first time in many years, Serbia has both a plan and a programme. For the first time in many years, Serbia sees light in the horizon and after many years the whole world admits for the first time, the whole world, all financial institutions, absolutely everyone. So, the drop in front of the demands of all the strikers or those who are speaking now -- it's a little 200 euros a year, and they weren't few while some were robbing and destroying their factories, so they gave them 100 euros, then they weren't, and today they're giving us a lecture on how it's twice as much when you give it a little bit and not enough and when you don't rob it, you realize that they destroyed it and destroyed it, and you didn't manage to get everything out of the sink, as you tried, as you planned. So David Cameron in Great Britain managed to carry out the most difficult measures, even though they were all against him. The government was ahead of the crash. When asked – what do we do, we have to give in, it is obvious that the measures do not deliver results, he said – no, we will stick to the plan, we will not give up the plan. Two years later, it is the country with the largest economic growth in Europe of 3.6%, the country with the lowest unemployment rate in its history, and it is the country which is the only problem for further rapid growth representing small, minimal growth or stagnation of the continental part of Europe. So, those nations, those governments that had the courage, and the peoples who had enough patience, patience and that courage and determination, but also good measures, they came, in order to put a simple dictionary word to that green branch and their country, to get out of the most difficult possible crisis. Today, the British economy is still one of the most valued in the world, or, again, to express myself better and more correctly. I think that we can have an advantage over, as the Adriatica said earlier, that many Western Balkan countries in the future, that we took advantage of the first to do so, however difficult it was for us and for how difficult it was for us to take. I am convinced that we will succeed in doing this in the best possible way, but to cheer those who are looking forward to it, because I don't understand who the people who are looking forward to Serbia's failure and who are the people who want everything to fail and who are getting worse, who are those people who have asked or insisted, and how much it costs Summit 16 plus one and the welcome of the Chinese prime minister four days in Belgrade, so when you answer how much it costs, then shut up, because they spent more on opening their own monument in an election campaign that no prime minister has come to, not even this country. I just want to say yes or we won't. I don't have a problem myself. You want to choose someone else, so choose. The problem is me, we'll choose someone else, but those measures have to be implemented with me, without me, with or without someone else, Serbia can and Serbia has to come out of a crisis that has been brought into question by irresponsibleness, incompetence, cowardice, vehementness, blasphemy, and whatever expression I use, I've reduced the responsibility of those who have acted so. In that regard, I would add even those who were large unemployed. Are we wrong? Well, we're wrong. You know, the one who works, he's wrong. I'm going to mention at the end of the year where I think I made a personal mistake for these seven and a half, eight months. But the one who works has the right to sin, but how do those who do nothing sin, who spend an hour a day at work, make such disastrous decisions? These are things I will never be able to agree with and which I will never be able to accept in such a way. Once again, I apologize for having to answer those who didn't even have any questions. What I had to point out to you was the nonsense and untruths that were brought here about how we're looking for rebalancing because of the loss of ER Serbia. That's a shame, people. It's a shame to listen to such lies in our media, such lies, and to be conveyed by God's serious people in this country. It's a shame. Everything we've got, we'd like to take everything down. Anything we're good at, we'd like to take everything down. Everything we've managed to do is wrong, and then we only remember when it's a few years ago – I'm sorry, so maybe this was good and maybe this was better. These are things I can't feel and I'll never feel them up. As long as I can fight for this government, I will fight for this country, and even when I am not in government, I will continue to fight for this country and I will love it much more than those who, in the best things in this country, always find fault and always find the reasons to criticise it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17184	I thank the Prime Minister. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have been discussing for nine and a half hours the amendments to the 2014 Budget Law, the 2015 budget, the set of financial laws. What this discussion, which has been going on for hours here in the Serbian Parliament, can be reduced to a few things, that the MPs of the former regime, who call themselves intellectuals, us from the SNS semi-literate, that the MPs of the former regime, who led Serbia for 12 years, call themselves the elite, and us from the SNS citizens of the second order. People's MPs of the former regime who led Serbia for 12 years dare threaten us, and we didn't fear them even when they were strongest. The MPs of the former regime, who led the Republic of Serbia for 12 years, call us cattle, and after everything they've done to Serbia, its economy and its citizens, cannot insult us. In one statement, I called the story of budget rebalances and the story of taking over the debt of Er Serbia, for those who criticised it, rudely and did not change their opinion after all these discussions, because none of the former regime's MPs, who led Serbia for 12 years, explained to me where Er Serbia's 160m-euro debt, i.e. JAT. In the period from 2008 to 2012, the National Assembly agreed on the responsibilities of the Yugoslav airport to cover the daily liquidity of JAT. Credits were taken, spent and there are 160m euros in debt left. Can someone explain to me how Er-Serbia, or JAT, led it? Since they often mention mirrores, we'll go back to that. They're attacking to take over public debt from "Serbiagas", and what doesn't say where the biggest losses of "Serbiagas" are? Is it possible that they're not in the azotars that their ministers were taking to artificial manure? Have they forgotten? Is that the mirror you're talking about? Why don't you look at it once? Why do you make us remind you of that all the time? Second place in local self-government, heat. Who ran the local self-government then? The same former regime that led Serbia for 12 years. Why don't you look in that mirror? A colleague said – why should the police pay their services to Telecom? Which is simply "Telecom" doesn't write off, it's a state-owned company, we're going to transfer them, we're going to pay out of the budget the debts they have on Telecom, and then Telecom will pay back, that's the same budget. Does anyone know how to make a final account? Did you know that the write-off of the claim goes to the long side? Does anyone know that the balances of this company and its credits are going down? It doesn't matter. It is important to make a political story, that what is good for citizens, which is good for the state, based on this political story is the worst. I can't understand that, not even after so many years of politics. And when I was an opposition MP, I was looking forward to it if, rarely, the government leading Serbia makes a good move. It wasn't hard for me to admit it. If there was criticism, it was only whether it could have been better, but for former members of the regime that led Serbia for 12 years it seems to be the most favorite that what was for the people up there, to make them better. That's how it was when they led Serbia, and now, if it gets worse, they're back in power. Well, that's where you'll be waiting a long time. I can't figure out if they're not happy that they're finally getting out of the savings made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, paying off subsidies to agriculture that were created just as they ran that same agriculture, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, and then some MP is going to get up and say, well, you did and you owed the country 7.5 billion euros. Let's look at those 7.5 billion euros. Three billion euros, debts from 2012, which were nowhere to be found. The state created obligations, performed public works, it was nowhere in the budget. That's three billion euros. A billion euros, covering losses from Agrobank, Vojvodina Development Bank, in three years about two billion and 700m euros in debt payments, not ours, but the former regime. You are attacking the minister who finally had the courage for the first time to put the debts of public enterprises and guarantees issued by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia into the budget, which you were hiding while you were in power, that is not to be said. That's why we failed our five-year arrangement with the IMF, which was concluded, it seems to me, in 2010, but in March 2012. I can't understand that someone is attacking the work of the tax administration. Now the prime minister has given the exact information. In 2013, a value added tax was charged in December of 19 billion dinars for the first 15 first days, now 22. I'm sorry that he didn't provide the data as much as it was in December 2011? How does this gray economy come about? How did this gray zone come to be? None of the former regime MPs who led Serbia until 2012 give answers, and he should know best, because it was happening right during their rule. The argument that the unemployment rate has fallen because employers from the gray zone have begun to report their employees, I ask the question – and where did these workers in the gray zone, how did this happen, who drove them there? They were driven away by unfair competition led by tycoons, so the owner of a non-tycoon company knew and could survive on the market, and no responsibility was assumed for that either. What does not take responsibility for the tax obligations that occurred until 2012, by robbing Serbian economy, Serbian banks and tax evasion? No one was allowed to go to Miskovic to ask him to pay taxes, not many others, and this government did. You're free of all these attempts to show through certain media that we're protecting tycoons. They were protected until they paid their taxes. When they pay taxes, citizens are like everyone else. If they have sinned against the law, they will answer to the competent judicial authorities. Does it bother anyone in Serbia? Probably the same tycoons who were helping and exercising political authority. I'll save more time for the end of my exposure. I'd just like to go back to that mirror, so often mentioned. I said the reasons why we look at them, but it seems to me, too, that some Serbian, former regime, was driving, driving, driving, doing what you want, 12 years with closed eyes, no mirrors, no nothing, and the eyes were closed so that they wouldn't watch the tycoons put money in their pocket, state, national, national money, how the Serbian economy is destroyed, how they get some money for their campaign to survive another day, a month or a year in power. So the question is, what were those eyes closed? Now the same seems to me, whenever something good is done for the citizens of Serbia, members of the former regime, which led Serbia for 12 years, to close their eyes again. We won't. We will guide Serbia with our eyes open, we will take care of its interests, and we will look at the mirror for some time, for two reasons, to remind you of what you were doing while you were in power and, secondly, that we do not get worse than we do in economic development, as it did while members of the former regime, who led Serbia for 12 years, allowed it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17186	Since authorised representatives have exercised their rights, we are now moving to the order of MPs on the list of registered ones. The first on the list is MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17187	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I would like primarily to say about the draft budget bill for 2015 is that it will definitely accompany the reform course and fiscal consolidation that awaits us in the coming years and we are trying to implement in the previous two years. I think the very text of the budget and what is in it follows a new philosophy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, formed eight months ago, defines in its policy and defines through its public policy which it wants to implement so that our country, primarily, could develop economically and solve the biggest problem that exists in our country, which is the problem of employment. This is exactly what the SDPS, which I represent here in parliament, puts into focus its work and what we have been talking about today all day long so that the common position that it has put in the image of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this proposal of the budget, but also the opposition, could agree on the minimum of common interests and common consensus that this country must have so that it can go on and so that it can attract as much foreign investment, domestic investment as possible, so that our society can transform from official to entrepreneurial society, so that we can cultivate and develop a culture of work in our country, not a culture of egalitarianism and what defines the ineffectiveness and ineffectiveness of what we have in the public sector. This budget definitely shows what we are going to do in the next period, which is that the government, parliament and all state institutions will try to implement rapid and dynamic reforms, primarily in the public sector, which at the moment is the generator of inefficiency and ineffectiveness, which is the generator of a new employment and, most importantly, the private sector. We want to create such an environment in a society that, in particular, young people will hesitate, that they seek their happiness, their existence in private business, private companies, new investors, not public enterprises, ministries and state institutions. This is how the real state is created, which creates an ambience that assumes and allows one country to develop, to be dynamically employed, because only a country that cultivates one developed market economy, developed capitalism, entrepreneurship, that state can develop, and all other are delusions. Also, as a Social Democrats, I can say that it is a delusion that it can be a social policy that is quality, health policy, education policy, investment in science, all that is real to us, and what my social democratic option is for the soul and life, that it is possible to achieve this if there is no growth in GDP, if there is no possibility of doing this redistribution in a fair and fair way. I believe that even in these conditions, when much savings are being saved, when social protection transfers have been reduced and the government is being reduced, when even pensions have been reduced, what is not touched, what is even increased, it shows that this government can and should be socially responsible, but parallel to having an obligation to create a quality environment, to attract as many quality investors as possible, both domestic and foreign, so that the economy can develop and that those who pay taxes, which create additional value in our country, can support and be an incentive to this public sector that will serve, not only citizens, but a serious service of economy in this development period of our country over the next few years. What I would put as the second goal of this government's policy and what this budget has defined, but also the prime minister in his April-month exposé, is the unfavourable fight against the gray economy. Serious analyses say that even half of GDP is being squeezed through or leaked into the grey or black economy, and our country must not, too, allow not all the instruments that we have, in the context of the work of the tax administration, the finance ministry, all those inspections that should be fought by it, have to fight in the next period against the gray economy, against working on black, because it not only endangers our country's budget, it not only negatively affects our country's GDP and what we could invest in developing the economy, capital investment, in certain social activities, but it brings us back civilization into, not 20, but in the 19th century. Iola, a more serious, developed state of the market economy, is seen as one of the main objectives of curbing and putting the grey economy at a level of just a few percent. Of course, as well as corruption, it cannot be completely abolished, it cannot be completely contained, but through legal solutions, coordinated work of inspection services and how it can work that those who hire black, who do not report their business and work, should be shut down, because such entrepreneurs, by all means, do not need us, like those who will carry development in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17188	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, at the beginning of the day, let me say that as a farmer, I am now damaged because I am alone. So, I don't blame the chairman here, of course it's a mistake for us farmers. Sometimes that's how we execute our heads, and then we suffer the consequences ourselves. What I will start with is a saying about the budget: when a good man is rich, it is as if every fruit is born to you in the midst of the village. She gives everyone and shares them. When a bad man or bad people get rich, it's like someone knocks out all your fruit trees in the village and takes everything away. We've been hit by this other accident. During the ferocious tumbling predatory capitalism, while one lost all others were gaining everything. At the same time, the country was in debt with geometric progression and here some were talking about interest. The 2015 interest on loans withdrawn by the former regime amounts to 131 billion 62 million. The Minister of Agriculture knows, it is six agricultural budgets, or six amounts that are set aside to encourage agriculture. In 2014, it was 112 billion 451 million, it was only interest. In 2013, there were 91 billion 749 million. In total, three years for interest, we gave 335 billion 263 million and 65,000 dinars. This is about 15 agricultural budgets, i.e. incentives for farmers to receive in 2014 or 2015. But when we add to that those who accuse us that the country is in debt for 7.5 billion from half of 2012 to this day, to be honest, I am obliged to say that the commitments resulting from the repayment of the debt in 2013 were 435 billion, in 2014 459 billion, and in this 2015, the commitment will be 515 billion and 226 million. This year alone, we're going to give 646 billion and a little more, which is about 30 amounts of the agricultural budget, or 300 times the budget. So for these three years, the capital was 1,411 billion and the interest was 335 billion, totaling 1,746 billion in three years. That's 15 billion euros. If anyone wonders why the debt has increased by 7.5 billion euros in the last three years, this information should be kept in mind. When they took the year 2012, it was 359 billion. So in 2012, elections were in May, interest rates 65 billion and 896 million. The total is 2,161 billion or 100 incentives set aside for farmers in this year or next year. When we assume that in 2008, the principals and the interest were about 200 billion, then we see how much the geometric progression has increased the debt. At the same time, for a little longer than ten years, 51 billion dollars were made out of the country. So, that's the result of their rule, where, together with the tycoons, they enjoyed the Maldives, they rode yachts, they ate lobsters, while their workers, in the morning, empty stomachs and empty pockets, were wandering to their jobs, and ten and more months later, sometimes years ago, they didn't get paid. The state of Serbia was brutally torn out of the hands of its citizens and handed over to the hands of the tycoon, who did what they wanted for their personal wealth and empires, all that had occurred to them, and nobody in the former regime's power had ever thought of curbing crime in such a way, and most often it was economic crime. As for budget rebalances, I welcome that kind of budget, because for the first time, I don't know how many years later, we're going to go out clean and zero to farmers at the end of the year. So all the debts, and they've been going through for three or four years, the sum was seven and a bit of a billion, now it's down to four billion, all the debts and liabilities to the farmers, they need to know, they're going to be cleared by this budget rebalance. Of the savings we have made the most useful will be those who will be paid, and these will be farmers, and this time all debts will be paid in full. Such a decision by the government and such a decision by the Ministry of Finance, I must welcome as president of the People's Peasants' Party. This is a unique case that peasants are not at the beginning, that they are sometimes among the first. This is for the first time, as far as I know, to pay them back the damages of previous years, at the end of this year from the savings that the government has made on various items. So this time we had a chance for the farmers to get what the state owed them and what was transferred from year to year. As for the 2015 budget, I have to say that agriculture got a little bit less, but when we take this amount that we get when the debts are liquidated, I think we got about what we got in the previous years. We all on board believe that agriculture should not be spared. However, times are such that they had to be saved somewhere. Since it had to be spared, agricultural holdings that are small and medium are not to be harmed. So this time agricultural holdings are favored below 20 hectares. If there's justice and when it has to be saved, I think it's the best thing that could have happened right now. I think with that little money, we need to favour agriculture by supporting livestock, fruit growing and vegetables. Premiums and subsidies are not only rewards for farmers, they are rewards for both consumers and processors, to be secure in raw materials and to get it at a cheaper price. Agricultural subsidies affect competitiveness, not only agriculture, but processing industries. They're much bigger around here. If I tell you that Croatia with 1.3m euros and 800,000 hectares of farmland, four times less than Serbia, stands out for direct incentives in our money for about 42 billion, and that amount in Serbia is 21 billion, although it is handled four times as much land in Serbia, it is obtained twice as much. So that's per unit of measure. If we take a hectare, it's eight times. So, we are at risk of being less competitive with our agriculture and the processing industry because of low customs duties. Therefore, account should be taken and the right to participate in IPAR funds should be paid attention to Article 41. An SSP, which makes it possible to protect our agriculture under these conditions. I think that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government are working to take protection measures, given that our incentives are very low, and that goods due to sanctions between Russia and Europe are coming to our market at dumping prices, and I think we are on a good track to suggest, together with the ministries, that the 41st member of the SAA is necessary, therefore, that our agricultural production is protected in a certain way. I think it is also necessary to amend the Agricultural Land Act and give the Ministry the right to issue 140,000 hectares centrally from the Ministry, for the purposes of 100,000 livestock, 30,000 fruit growing and 10,000 vegetables. I think that if we raise from 10,000 hectares of typical plastics, we can make a production worth billions of euros, and we can employ between 60 and 100 thousand workers in the interior and in the country, where the issue of agriculture is not just a matter of agriculture, but of survival, the issue of demographics, given the high age, the average age of the rural population. Also, I think 30,000 hectares should be given for typical orchards, which will be the most modern, which will bring 30,000 euros per year, after five years, when they are of full birth. Also in livestock, 100,000 acres. In this way we will come to production that will be worth two billion more without processing, and through processing, packaging, sorting, etc. Make an extra billion and a half to two. In this way, income from agriculture and the food industry will jump in the next five years for four years. So at this point the incentives are going in that direction, but they should be more significant in the future. When we suppress the gray economy, I believe your incentives will be bigger year after year. Since we are approaching the EU, given that we have most likely qualified for IPAR funds, I believe that this will be a significant support for agriculture in the future, given that the EU from pre-accession funds, if we provide pre-financing for each agricultural project, will give us 50% back. So, if we do projects each year of 100m euros, the EU will get 50m euros back and it will be more important to support agriculture than our subsidies and incentives can contribute at this time. If we want to make some reforms, we need to get off the path that the former regime was leading, off the road that ran nowhere, and that's why we got nowhere. We have to get on a road that leads somewhere to get somewhere. So I believe that the government will roll, roll up their sleeves, not like some former regime, twist the citizens' hands. I believe that no one else in Serbia thinks today that the better tomorrow can be led by those who robbed us yesterday. I think whoever's going the right way, they'll get companions soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17190	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The People's Messenger Riza Halimi has the word, and let the messenger of the people, Arpad Fermond, be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17191	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of the Government, I have been participating for eight years in discussions on budgets and budget rebalances. All this time we've been talking about crisis measures both in financial and economic terms. Obviously, these measures are more drastic this year, because they directly reflect wage cuts, pensions. Surely, regardless of all the debates we've had today, it is everyone's interest to finally have success in these measures, so that there is no even more difficult and dramatic situation. We heard here from Minister Vujovic that there is a shift, that there is a resuscitation of production, that unemployment is decreasing to 17.6%. Now, in my opinion here, the question is, how controversial it is, and how much and to what extent it is systemically, that it concerns all municipalities, that it concerns all areas. Because in undeveloped areas you can't see yet, we're a long way from it. In the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, the unemployment rate reached a record 80%. The prospects for a normal life are closed. People are leaving. Whole families don't have any employees. They're facing elementary, existential problems. For a great miracle, all this time, 14 years ago, the government has a coordinating body for this area. There is a programme voted in the government, then in the Federal and Republic for the resolution of the crisis in these areas. But from three basic goals, those two are absolutely far from being realized. There has been neither economic revitalisation nor the integration of Albanians into the country's social, political, economic system. We've had a lot of debates here from the MPs of almost all parties in the sense that a co-ordination body for these municipalities should be abolished because that's why these municipalities are privileged, that they are privileged. And the situation is reversed. There's absolutely no discussion about any privileges, and in my opinion, the system doesn't work there. The results show that these elemental things don't work. As soon as the unemployment rate reached 80%. What's going on here? That literally these municipalities cannot compete, they usually refuse when they are interested in the development funds of all ministries because they are told – you have a coordinating body. I've reported here several times that per capita investment in these municipalities, in this period of body coordination, was up to six times lower than the national average. So there's no such thing as a privilege. There's more of a political farce now. The concept of co-ordination body among people in the area is identical with the concept of the villages of Pojkin, from the time of Empress Katarina in Russia. That's all it's used to say is that's where it's done. These municipalities have a coordinating body, so they're like I said, with this notion that they're privileged, and the situation is reversed. The municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac are on Corridor 10. At the crossroads of highways headed towards Kosovo Pomoravlje, according to Gjilan, Pristina. It's not used. I ask the question here many times, why only with Macedonia does not exist, it does not work, and this budget does not provide for IPA programmes. With all other countries around them, but not with Macedonia. I understand, with Kosovo is a political problem. Even though we're still in 2002, 2003. In 2004, 205, the Council of Europe had one mini project and co-operation with Gjilan, Kumanov, Trgovište, Presevo, but only in cultural, educational terms, but not economically. So here, in my opinion, is the basic question – either this coordination body for an emergency situation for an extremely undeveloped area will do what it was formed for, for which it is also built or to be abolished, and that it is no longer manipulated and that it is not really created what I just said, in the village of Podokin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17192	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. The word has a minister in the government, Miss Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17193	Just for a little while, about cross-border programs. We are for this period IPA two, otherwise I direct you MPs, tomorrow we have a public hearing in the National Assembly regarding IPA two, including cross-border programmes for the period 2014 to 2020. It is the eight programmes Hungary – Serbia, Romania – Serbia, Bulgaria – Serbia, Croatia – Serbia, Serbia – BiH, Serbia – Montenegro, the Adriatic-Ionian Transnational Programme, the transnational programme Danube. You are right, with Macedonia, in this period has not been defined but I can tell you that I also spoke with Macedonian Ambassador to Belgrade and I hope that we will soon have a meeting with the national IPA co-ordinator of Macedonia. So anyway, we'll try to find a solution. I understand your objections or your findings, but I wouldn't be getting into details right now, and that's why it happened. Anyway, we support cross-border programs. It's important for regional co-operation. I believe we'll make some progress in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17194	Thank you. The People's MP Arpad Fremond has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Đorđe Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17195	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, Ministers of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Zolatan Peck from the SVM parliamentary group as our authorised representative has made our views on the draft laws on the agenda. In my presentation, I would like to focus on the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. At the beginning of 2013, the SVM Group welcomed the decision on the adoption of this law, because we all know well what all previous years were about subsidies. We had regulations and our producers didn't know what was waiting for them next year. This made it extremely important to pass this law. This was primarily important for our producers, and through this law the state finally formed a transparent policy of incentives in agriculture. It is strategically important that we have predictability in agricultural production. The law on fostering agriculture and rural development has created a stable, long-term and predictable agricultural policy. We hoped that the adoption of such an important law would not often change agrarian policy. However, due to the situation in which the state is located, there has been an amendment and an addition to this law, as explained – the adoption of this law stems from the need to improve the basic elements of agricultural policy and rural development policy, in line with changes in the economic and market environment caused by the impact of the global economic crisis over the past few years. What is the biggest newspaper that puts this law into focus and agricultural land that uses up to 20 hectares of farmland, which is the most numerous category of land and that the state in the future will not give incentives for state land either. We hope that this way of directing the agricultural policy measures will provide an opportunity to improve plant production for smaller holdings, while at the same time creating opportunities to improve livestock production through the introduction of incentives measures for additional animal categories. I am sure that the change decision has been difficult and I sincerely hope that everything can go back to the old ones in the future – to increase subsidies per hectare and to increase incentives, because if we want our producers to be competitive on the EU market, that is, to compete with EU producers, this will be necessary. For us MPs of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, the amount allocated to agriculture will become at least 5% of the revenue side of the national budget. It is also positive that this law extends the scope of the measures in the area of livestock production, since new measures are introduced in the framework of the incentive for livestock production: the incentive for quality breeding cows and incentives for such yards, which strengthens the support of livestock production. However, in addition to positive things, we have one serious objection to the bill. At the beginning of 2013, we, MPs of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, asked for an amendment to prescribe the possibility for the Autonomous province and local self-government to establish other support measures for the implementation of agricultural policy, not just for credit support. Our proposal, then SNS Minister of Agriculture, Mr Goran Knezevic, has accepted and the amendment has become an integral part of today's law. Unfortunately, however, this proposal provides for Article 13 of the Law to be amended, and this also affects our accepted amendment. We MPs of the Grand Duchy of Hungarians are opposed to that. Since this article is about AP funds and local self-governments that have income from the lease of state agricultural land, provided that the measures are in agreement with the agrarian state policy, we ask that jurisdiction remain. What we are not satisfied with is that the proposed text of the law does not fully contain solutions that could enable the province or local self-government to provide funds for the owners and that the incentive system will be centralised. What creates the problem is that AP Vojvodina authorities, as well as numerous local self-governments, have different support programmes for agricultural producers who would like to continue for a further period. Therefore, we believe that in the future too, it should be possible for all the competent authorities to do so if they want to help farmers, they can do so both at the regional and local level. We want incentives to continue, in addition to those set out in the Bill's proposal, for example, to co-finance interest on agricultural loans, re-promaterials, purchase of agricultural machinery, machinery in livestock, fruit growing and vegetables, purchase of livestock and veterinary services. We do not want the parallel financing of agricultural producers but we want it to be possible for farmers who manage to obtain these funds from local self-government. Otherwise, I, who comes from Bačka Topola, should point out that in Bačka Topola municipality we have a Agricultural Development Fund for many years back. We have various programs, of course, consistent with the agriculture ministry's programmes. So we always get consent to these programs and these programs are extremely important to our agricultural producers in the municipality. It is strategically important that we continue these programmes in the future. I hope you will have an understanding of this problem and I expect the Government of the Republic of Serbia to accept this amendment. As for the draft laws and other acts on the agenda, the parliamentary group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians will support these proposals. However, once again I urge the Government of the Republic of Serbia to accept our amendments, through which we only want to improve the proposals of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17196	Thank you, Mr. Fremond. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17197	Mr. Prime Minister, the honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, remains bitter after the difficult words some colleagues have spoken in this high house, which must always and at all times be respected. Always before the budget debate, the question can be asked whether he could have been better and whether he was good enough, enough socially enough for Serbian citizens, but it must always be brought to facts and arguments. In my opinion, this budget shows the reality in which Serbia is located in a very transparent way. It identifies the key problems Serbia faces, but offers both clear and courageous answers, which, with the proposal of this programme budget, represent a three-year financial consolidation programme. The budget law always speaks of the government's economic policy next year. I would only single out three, for me very important, goals of this budget. The first is the consolidation of budget expenditure. The second is the continuation of restructuring and privatisation of state-owned enterprises and the third – the implementation of structural reforms. The objective of structural reforms is to establish a business environment that will allow for the rise of domestic and foreign investments and the creation of conditions for new employment, employment primarily for young people. The price we pay is high, but if we postpone the reforms, the price will be even higher. What's our goal? Our goal is not to be a sustainable country, but a country that can earn its own money. Many countries in the economic crisis years before us recognized these problems and took similar measures that we are taking today. The prime minister mentioned Estonia, and I will mention Lithuania. The results and parameters in both Lithuania and Estonia and Romania and Portugal are much better today. The 2015 budget for the first time on the part includes expenditures that have been booked below the line so far. This means that in the budget, you will see how much is spent on paying off loans taken by the Railways, Srbijagas, Galenika. On the receiving side, the most money is expected from taxes, both VAT and excise duties. They encourage data provided by the prime minister that tax-based payments have been increased, which speaks of financial discipline. So, no tax benefits, the law is the same for everyone, and he has to be respected. Many gross national incomes go to the grey economy, some economics estimates are up to 30%, but it encourages a meeting that was recently in the government and measures that will be taken in 2015 to cut budgets. I personally and my colleagues from the NS are expecting to get rid of a system of fair earnings in Serbia through payment classes, and this is also an opportunity for workers in education and health care. There are 900 coefficients in Serbia, several dozen basics, many illogicalities. In the next period, it is important to have clear criteria for transfers of budgets to local self-government, to have birth indicators. I think it is still necessary to introduce an impact assessment and to create additional values in the public sector, as has been the case so far in the private sector. I have to mention one analysis of the World Bank where the productivity of our workforce is about 40%, and that's one of the main reasons why we don't have a level of competitiveness, even at regional level, so we can become an export-oriented country at full capacity. Here I think we have room to work with companies that bring new investment and new management, new technology engineering, make our competitiveness and base it on a creative economy. I have to mention once again that we have a lot of agencies. In a debate on rebalancing, Mr. Prime Minister said they are untouchable, but I am sure that you and the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia will have the strength to face this problem in the coming period. In any case, MP New Serbia will support the Budget Law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17198	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17199	Since there is usually a custom in Serbia for you to respond or enter into political debates and conflicts without commenting on what those who are not malicious say, I will try to make an exception in thanking Mr Arpad Fremond and you, I think you have run several topics that are very important. So, as people say, people who are well-intentioned, and it's always possible to find new sources of savings, always new divisions where you can spend less. We, say, about the official cars that everyone laughed at, managed to have about 1,600 cars left on the side today, and you saw how many well-preserved cars we could use for the 16 plus one summit for our guests, which none of our people here used. However, the three problems you've highlighted, I'd like to speak of them with special attention. It is the privatisation of these 502 companies with a special reference to 160 enterprises in restructuring, I will say and who they are and people will understand exactly what the problem of youth unemployment is, and then I will look back at the agencies, the results that we achieved after the flood, and some other things. So, the essence of everything we're doing and I haven't been hiding it for a moment, and that's why I said somewhere that, if my dream was that one day and when we lose the election, someone said, that's how Schroeder worked in Germany, and they're doing it today. We do it because, first of all, young people because of generations ahead of us, if we didn't do it now, the question is whether or when someone could do it. Our mandate and the great trust of the people that we would have had even greater if we were engaged in gossiping about our political opponents rather than in hard work and making the most difficult measures, I think it would allow us to become even more popular. However, our choice was precisely to get into these difficult measures to enable young people to work and make the future possible. When I say the job, I don't mean the job and I want to underline it, because what I'm saying tonight is I think it's of great importance for our different behavior in the future, because we've usually been asked for a job, for someone to pay me, and if I'm going to do it, that's another thing. You all know that, and we're all witnesses of that, but if it's one of our own, whether he's a relative, whether he's a friend, then we could go over it. I'm afraid we don't have time and opportunities anymore. That is why I am pleased, even tonight, as much as we sin as there are more ministers than opposition MPs, because it is also good for people to see in Serbia who are referring to work and who is referring to our future and even to this budget. In terms of privatisation, we are today trying to do what we are trying to do, to find a buyer for what is in the most part or destroyed or in huge debt. So we don't have anything that's our silver and we have to sell. When you talk about large agricultural combinations that you will say – there is our country, there are huge losses, all losses from 10 to 200m euros. We don't have anything that's clean. We don't have anything that's profitable. From that wonderful PIC Becay, and I'll remind you in Vienna there used to be both "Fadip" and "Flora", of course Soya worked, everything worked out that somewhere in the end with wrong privatisation and thieving everything was destroyed. Someone's got to fix it today. Will all men be pleased? People need to understand that today we need to get the most out of our country and what we can and what we rarely use, to lose at least what we have to, as well as in some other foreign policy stuff. About the company in restructuring, there's a part of the company that no longer has employees and when you say, since our newspaper is full of information, we don't need bread, we don't need water, we don't need anything, of course we're good and bread, of course we're good and water. We have electricity percentage more than Germany and America have compared to the population, just so you know, only no one will say, we congratulate those people who retired at 20 meters and I invited them on the phone at 11 p.m. to thank them for fighting to get our poor in eastern Serbia electricity in impossible conditions. It's been sitting in America for a month and they don't get it. In Slovenia, one Postojna, the city, had no electricity for two weeks. In one Slovenia, the EU country, there was no electricity for two weeks, but there were no such attacks on workers who fought hard and who fought to win these people. Who today in Serbia has no electricity, we were faced with the most severe floods. We were faced with the collapse of our entire system, from Tent to Obrenovac to the Western Dark One that was flooded. We've managed to solve everything, we've managed to do everything, but there's no good words for these people, there's no good words for us because now that we're talking about privatizing these companies, we're trying to find, to squeeze something out of dry drenina. There's no one in Dubravka who's interested in FAP. There's no such thing. If there are any of you who know anyone who's interested in FAP, tell me now. We were able to find the Finnish company Sisu, he's gone. No one's gonna get people, no one's gonna get people. You say, "What is it that you have taken on your debts?" Show me the one who wants to accept to take over some company with 300m euros in debt. What are you guys talking about? That in our country as if we were back in the 1960s, we don't know the market economy. With us, those who are the most large capitalists or tycoons, in their media support working self-government, in the right sense. I'm not going to participate, I think it's a failed system, that it's the system that destroyed our country, that destroyed our minds, that it's the system that made us lazy, that it's the system that destroyed our future. That's the best, the most desirable, it's great because I went out on the street to rebel. I don't complain I didn't go to sea, I didn't go and I won't go to winter, not one day. Great, enjoy, work, and just rebel against something. What's the score? Nothing. So, within this 502 privatisation, we expect at least three-fifths of us to be able to find some owner, but you know that out of those 502 to find the right buyer for five, then turn off Galenika and the PKK, for five to find, it's not small. Of these 170 no-day cases have been solved in the past 14 years, none. We pay the salaries that everyone asks us to pay for people who haven't entered the factory in a year and you all know it and you all pretend you don't know it. No one asks people – wait a minute, so why are you doing this, and now I'm telling you once it has to stop, and that's why we're going to take severances to solve it where we don't have a solution. Where we have the solution that this factory, that this company operates in accordance with market conditions. It's the economy of the future. It's the only economy that has a chance of success. It's the only economy in which we can do something. There is no other economy. I'd call this all else a lie economy. It hires my sister-in-law, hires me a snorkel, hires my uncle, the state can do anything out of a jar, so it's not the state jar in which there is, so get out and everyone has a solution and everyone knows it, and so they don't rarely say – cancel the agencies, raise our salaries. People, if we were to touch some of those two, three agencies, you'd crucify us here and say, "Don't, the whole international community is rebelling." Well, just that some of those independent bodies we touch with 300,000 dinars, and they have three times as much pay as I have, you'd say, "Don't, don't touch it." How much more hypocritical? How much longer? What's the hypocrisy -- we can't stop it, not give us, on the one hand, Europe, this other doesn't give you all the power for human rights and for what you want and you know it all well, and there's no money there. They told me to cancel the payments to the boards of directors. Somewhere we can, somewhere we can't. Do you know what the total savings are? Four to five million euros, and we need to save 550 to 600m euros. So I was saying today how important this is to us and how much we were looking forward to seeing the increase in excise duties for cigarettes in the last three months, the increase in oil excise duties, regardless of the decrease in the price of gasoline and oil derivatives, and that we had a serious increase in VAT collection and because of financial discipline, but also because of another thing you don't mind, which will show results in 2016, but I can see it in 2015. We had this weird system where we could see it at the beginning of the year. In addition to the floods, where we had literally a disaster by August, we had a system where tycoons, whatever you call them, it doesn't matter, businessmen, reverse businessmen, it doesn't matter, some people took out 100m euros from banks per year, then they get 30m euros through VAT, and those who do a VAT analysis in our finance ministry tell you -- we have problems now, these two companies, they won't be able to pay a VAT anymore, because they're in trouble, because there are no more banks that can steal money from them, and then you say -- well, wait, what to do, and they say -- let's save them a little bit, to pay us some VAT, and so we're saving from the month to month in some ways, and we just contributed to our bigger losses, the headaches of Vujović, the headaches and all the others, because we never want to make a healthy system. What doesn't go on the market doesn't go on, period. Now we will and make a healthy system, make what can be left and what can survive. What's not for the market, don't let it go by force. One of the reforms I've proposed, which I'm unable to implement, I'm telling you, I'm not able to, I've asked you all for help and support, I've asked all of you for help and support to privatise Serbian clubs, not to be used for money laundering, and that mobsters fight, first of all in football, not to talk about other sports, and how many countries they're going to give this to, so let it go to that, so whether this one public enterprise gave this to us, and whether it gave it to the other. Why is that? Because no one wants to have transparent finances, because no one will accept to privatize it, because we all live in 1960, in working self-management, where we all think that we belong to the Red Star and the Partizan, don't belong to us, find anyone to belong to both, just pay taxes to the state, get them out of the boules and get them to do it. We can't do that. We can't, because when I say this, I know that tomorrow at the stadium, I'm waiting for shouts and banners because I asked for privatisation, which is the only sound system. That's why Real Madrid, Chelsea, and I don't know which clubs are much stronger than all of ours. He can't. It can't do that in Serbia. You can't do it because everything that is healthy and everything that is successful – don't do it. The workers are taken over by the board building, the owner can't decide who's going to be the director? People, 2014, December of the month. It's going to be 2015. All of us have the support of working self-government. Please ask where we are. This is supported by all the media in this country, from RTS to any other private television held by capitalists and who don't let anyone get involved in it, and no employee asks who they're going to put in charge of, and you don't know if you're laughing or crying, you don't know what to do because it doesn't make any sense anymore. The tortured Bata Gasic should fear whether he will appoint this or that director, and the state owns 100%, people, and those of the largest taxpayers throughout Serbia, of course, from some previous times. It's the most convincing. If you say so, you will be placed on a pillar of shame. If you tell them the truth, if you tell everyone the truth, and you all know I'm right, on one side and on the other, no matter how many percent anyone has here, you're all thinking the same thing, except no one's going to tell because someone who's going to pay for everything and who's going to be guilty for everything, and the most guilty is the one who's telling people the truth. We don't have any of those agencies, Dubravka, enough money to get us out. They're gone. None of us are crazy. It would be easier if we didn't do this the hard way. So we're doing it because there's no other way, and because we know that if I repeat it to people in Serbia, the IMF says, who's a very conservative institution, which doesn't count on us to grow, if "The Irons" are working with both high furnaces, and I'm telling you, they're going to do both high furnaces, it's going to increase our GDP by 1.3%. So they didn't include it. They tell you - in 2015 you are minus 0.5%, in 2016 you plus 1.5%, in 2017 more than 2%. So they're telling you -- you're going to have stable growth, a stable reduction in the fiscal deficit and a stable decrease in public debt since the end of 2016, for which we're neither guilty nor obliged, nor onion eaten, nor onion smelled. This year we have to pay a billion and 300 million euros on interest only, people, and we took 7.8% loans, short-term loans at five years 2008 and 2009 at 7.8%. Well, who's gonna pay it back? Well, people, someone's doing business in this country. What company is this? What country can bring that back? We have to get that back. I remind you, people, Belgrade had a 20.25% deficit in 2013. I'm talking about the consolidated budget of the city along with public enterprises. You guys know what that is? Please consider 20.25%. Well, we lied to ourselves, paid false pensions to people to get votes from the city and the municipal budget. Well, guys, you're not normal to do that. It's impossible for someone to think of doing something like that. I'm sorry, I haven't spoken to anyone "ad personam". It applies to me, as it does to everyone else. I want to tell you this is such a level and a relative disaster that people in Serbia need to know. We came here in front of you and the budget's rebalance is boasting. We're telling you -- people, I guess you'll welcome this, with budget rebalance we saved 300 to 350 million euros. So, 300 to 350m euros I'm telling you that we spent less than what we told you three or four months ago that we were going to spend. It's no good. It's no good. Whatever you do, it's no good. When you spend a lot, they're crazy, they increase our deficit and debt. When you spend a little, that's not good either. Wait, so what's going on in this country? What good is that? What's it worth fighting for? What's that worth? Is that diligence, is that honesty, is that the progress of the country? Should we not look forward to opening the bridge? Should we not look forward to opening a smelt in Bora tomorrow? Well, my heart is playing a game of how much I look forward to opening a smelter, because you all knew it was Podkin's village that we thought would never end up somewhere. Tomorrow we open this Podokin village in Bora. We've been done for the last few months. We found a rock, invested, accepted that the deficit would be bigger, so that we would not only because of Boran, not only because of the people of the Borski District, but because of the whole of Serbia, we could do it, because it raises our GDP and it raises everything that we do in this country. It re-industrializes our country as well as the ironworks. That's what we can do. About agriculture, we can't throw money at certain things. I know there's gonna be problems here, and I know you, Mr. Fremond, know it well. We've been giving, because it's someone's made a decision when they needed votes and they're supposed to buy votes, to convince people, so you've done well in that way, here's the state country and he's taking the state land that 110 euros paid and we're giving him a 110-euro subsidy the next day, and he's not even processing it, but he's subletting the real peasants who pay him that price and then he's neither doing anything nor anything else, that state subsidy took for himself. And then they get together to you, because it's usually the most powerful people, usually the biggest tycoons, I'm not talking about exceptions, they come -- now we're going to get together, you're facing it, and unlike the others, if you remember, Mr. Petrovic, I told you and apologized to you, whether it was, and apologized to you, after, and you see, today I'm not too hard to say and said that you were right about the law that you proposed. Is that what happened? So, as you can see, it's not hard for me to admit my mistake, but we're more about throwing money at those who have it the most we don't have. We want to have a farm based on the market, to make it as successful as possible, to bring to our country Clemens Teniz, the largest private European meat producer, who will work with our producers, pig breeders, first of all, bring Kremonini, along with Arab companies, is the most powerful Italian and European cattle grower and for the processing of young, veal and other meat. We bring them in, and they'll probably hire the most people on the Cave, and we'll try to raise, first of all, the livestock industry and more in the future to help livestock, than we'll be helping wheat, tail, wheat, wheat, tail, wheat, then five years of soil, etc. Those who have to work 365 days a year, we'll help them most. We're gonna help the most valuable people. Thank you, Milly, for the applause, he applauded Milly, who boasts that he is a man from Svrlig, boasts about it, but he knows what I'm talking about. That's what the government is going to put a special accent on. That's where we can boost our entire economy and you'll see these results in 2015. As you can see, the things we've been doing are slowly coming from Frezenius, the PKK, the bridge, the smelters, the tracks of Jellyzar, followed by FAP, followed by many other things, so follow us by the nitrogen. We have to finish it before March 1st, we have to finish it before March 1st, petrochemicals, although it's very difficult, because without an investment of 150 million at the Polopropilen factory, there's nothing we can do in petrochemicals. If we can find that, we've solved our problems. Then we won't be the problem with those 7 and 11% of GDP for wages and pensions anymore, then we can decide what we're going to do. But it takes unity and understanding of people. It takes people to understand what we are fighting for and what kind of country we want, not a country where when we say something to Tom Nikolic and I, and it's not appropriate, then it's turning out to be the main news on all televisions, and when the chairman of the National Assembly is called "store one", then they say – there's no telling who said it. It's like we're all deaf, stupid and a little crazy. But that's the kind of hypocrisy that follows us and we're going to have to win together, and we're going to have to win, and because our success depends on the future of this country, and that's what the Russians and the Americans and the Germans and the whole of the EU tell you today, both the IMF and the World Bank and the IBRD and the EIB and everyone else. I'm just asking you to understand that no one has anyone in any of those agencies. On the contrary, there are mostly people who are the greatest part or against us, whose job is to be against us. Whatever we do, it's their job to be against us, but when you touch their salary, they're terribly allergic. When you touch them in 300,000 dinars, it's terribly hard to touch them in 300,000 dinars, because they're God-given to have 300,000 dinars, and you're some to Vukic, and all you other who have 100,000 dinars, you're villains, so you have to stay on it. What you do is a little bit more and you have a responsibility that's incomparably greater, who cares about everything. I just want to ask you to understand that the essence of all this is that young people get jobs, to give them a chance. We'll find a way, I talked about it with the finance minister, we'll start with a serious start-up support, and we'll do that, now let me tell you, from the privatisation incomes, because it's an off-balance, it's beneath us. You have noted that we have not included in the budget any privatisation income, not from Telecom, not from Galenika, not from the PKB, not from any company, and it will be. We're going to return that money half immediately, and half of us are going to big investment projects, Belgrade-Budapest, we're going to go to where we can immediately see through start-up loans how to encourage entrepreneurship in young people, how to encourage employment, more. By the way, I didn't tell you that the lowest unemployment rate in the last five years is currently in Serbia at 17.6%. I believe it's a lot, that it's still a very bad result, but don't mistake your mind that we inherited a 26.7% score. I know it's hard to admit to someone else that somewhere in some sphere a certain result has been made, but this is where we made it. Where the problem is, the problem is that it is not the result first or foremost of opening new plants, production, greenfield or brownfield investments, but a good part of it is the result of improved discipline, the work of inspectors, the work of much greater than it was before, therefore, more significant discipline, but it is also very important for workers, because these workers today also have their social and health insurance, they feel safer, they feel safer. Let me remind you that they told us, when we talked about the Labour Act, that we would have 300,000 new unemployed, so I ask you now - where are those 300,000 new unemployed? We pride ourselves on this law, and the whole world praises us for it, the whole world and those who criticized us, because they have nothing else to boast about, when they go abroad, they mostly praise that law, so they criticize us for some other things. Once again, I will thank you for your good faith and good intentions to help us. Please get further involved in this work and just understand that we're literally working on this with the IMF for four months. We brought this budget with the IMF. I guess those are people who know better finances than we do. We brought it together. The second you adopt him here, you will hear a written statement from the IMF about support for reforms, support for the budget and everything else. Ask any foreign investor what's the first thing they ask you? This is macroeconomic stability and security – do you have an arrangement with the IMF or do you not have it? Thank you again, and I want you to help us do this job even stronger and harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17200	I thank the Prime Minister. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17201	I am reporting because you asked the question – could the budget be more social, could he take more care of socially endangered categories? Before I answer that, let me tell you about the Labour Act. Remember, not only were mass layoffs announced, but it was announced that we would have, what was then called, the economy for a certain time, that all workers would be reported for a certain time, because we extended the possibility of working for a certain time? Statistics say that even the number of employees has increased indefinitely because the law provides security, gives both the employer and the employee the opportunity to know what his obligations are in one direction or another, and then you have no fear of hiring a man, of receiving him on a permanent basis. About the social budget, our budget couldn't be more social than this, to be more responsible than this, so I have to remind you that when the austerity measures were announced, when they were implemented, they were implemented exclusively by keeping the poorest. Sixty percent of pensioners are not covered by austerity measures. Those who receive minimum income and above it are not covered by austerity measures, and then, beyond all that, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I really need to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister who fully supported me in that position, so that no single dinar can be reduced by social contributions. The social benefits go 30% of our budget. This budget of the Ministry of Labour is 155 billion. Social contributions go 94% of that budget and it doesn't shrink anywhere by any single dinar. At the time of the most rigorous savings of financial welfare, disability, compensation, are not reduced by a single dinar, even increased to 50 billion, the maternity rights division, which deals with child support, which deals with parental supplements, which deals with the compensation of our children for going to kindergarten, those who, of course, have the right to do so. It is simply not possible in this situation to have a more socially responsible budget. I was hoping it would be welcomed, to be honest. However, it is either ignored, or underestimated. Both, of course, are not good, but what is good is that, let's say, we took special care of those who should be hired by active employment policy measures. Last year's budget was a billion and 800 million plus 600 million for people with disabilities. Today's budget is two billion and 800 million plus 500 million for hiring people with disabilities. Subsidies of between 150,000 and 250,000 dinars are foreseen depending on the degree of the municipality where you employ a young man, and for people with disabilities from 180,000 dinars to 300,000 dinars. The subsidisation of young people who for the first time, who do not have a working experience, are scheduled to get a job, so part of their salary, part of their earnings, will be subsidized by the national service, or subsidized by this budget, and the employer will have an obligation to keep them at work for another six months after the grant expires. That's a good measure. For the first time, we will also introduce that the recipients of financial social assistance are safeguarding social assistance, subsidising part of what they are doing, in order to reduce it over time until they start working and living exclusively from their work. You see, these are all concrete measures, and we're sure that we're going to cover 129,545 people with these measures. We'll protect them. It is obvious that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has explicitly taken care of both new employment and social budgets. That's good news. It's good that in times of crisis, you have this socially responsible budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17202	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you are, Mr Petrovic, and let the MP Konstantin Arsenovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17203	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and Mr. Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, I agree with what Nenad Canak said here at the beginning of this debate -- the budget is the political issue of the first order, and then the issue of numbers. My opinion is that in 2015, when a new budget is under discussion within a year and gathers what has been done well, and what will not depend, assessments of all of this from one thing, will more citizens and more families in Serbia have increased confidence or not? I think it's a matter of confidence, and it's not a matter of self-esteem, it's not even a question of whether the government and the Prime Minister and most of them will have something bigger or smaller, or much less support. It's a question of whether we're going to change things so much that people are going to believe that they can do something with what they know, with their skills and with the opportunities they're in. I don't believe any government involvement can change things by itself. That's why I said I agree with what Chanak said here in principle, and we differ in detail. I think it's a system thing, and that's why it's a policy I believe is good and I'm in favour of a policy of decentralisation. Simply put, I think that if people don't get a chance to decide what's really close to them and what they can and must have influence, that we're all not going to make this work together. I'm an opposition to this government. The Party Together for Serbia, whose head I am in, as well as the coalition partners with whom I sit at the parliamentary club, but I want these things to succeed. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm very happy that tomorrow he's going to start working in Bora. I want this thing with Smederev to succeed with all my heart, as I was looking forward to all the good as they ruled Serbia's government, in some I sat, in some I did some other things, and while Kostunica was in power, even in those times when we were dealing with some other topics, and not in the economy. I really think that if people don't systematically get a chance to decide, there's almost no chance of a reform of education, health reform. Unless they have an institutional opportunity to say who are good, and who are bad teachers and teachers, who are good, and who are bad doctors in homes of health and hospitals, that job has nothing to do with it. As much as the Prime Minister and ministers have working hours, working days, working weeks, it just doesn't work. Where we have influence, I'm talking about a party to the U.S., we've made a decision to keep the settlements on property tax and we encourage them to organize themselves into city municipalities. Unless they have a chance to decide on some budgets, unless they can pressure the presidents of municipalities and mayors, since September 2015, what the 2016 budgets will look like, I don't think they'll get the opportunity and the opportunity to gain confidence that they can affect their lives. I'm not talking about changing the constitution here. It's not a topic today, but about a big space... Too bad Kori Udovici, the minister, isn't here, because it's her job, but there's Mr Vujovic, the finance minister. The same should be done by the government, because it can, it has capacity, relative to cities and municipalities, with absolutely clear relations. We heard from Minister Vujovic that it will be early next year. I look forward to the law. I don't understand. This is the Prime Minister. How's this transfer distribution going? It will not be decisive to move things to one side and the other, but it is necessary to set the rules of the game and to know what is good governance, and what is not good governance and how many people should be in the administration of a thousand inhabitants, regardless of whether it is Leskovec, Valjev, Novi Sad or Subotic. It doesn't matter. It's important that everyone knows the rules in advance, which they need to follow and know where they're good and where they're not. I'm gonna take this opportunity to repeat something I've been saying here for over two years. I believe there are several areas in the economy, where we have a great opportunity and a great opportunity to make significant breakthroughs and increases through economic policy measures. There are Minister Antic and Minister Sertic. Energy efficiency, 180 million dinars in the budget, let me say a number. A million and a half apartments, houses that heat up on electricity, gas, remote heating are similar to isolation. The size of this job is two and a half billion euros. Sixty or seventy percent of these couples should earn those who work in construction. This rest is for those who produce insulation material. The government, if it goes into this project, should go, according to my belief, by letting the competition between municipalities and cities, to give them, to say – if you invest out of your budget one dinar, we will give you another or whatever, so that they open up somewhere subsidising loans to citizens who need to get the possibility that seven, eight or ten years of discrediting the isolation of their houses and apartments. We made a mega step. I don't think anyone will need an additional subsidy to build an insulating material factory in Serbia, whether it's a stranger or it's a domestic company. With irrigation, too. Why just 350 million dinars? Here's the minister here explained why she failed to organise this whole year, in fact, these 350 million dinars, a little over three million euros, that's small. This whole thing is between three and four and a half billion euros in digging, irrigation equipment. I'm sure no one when Serbia comes to having a million or a million and 100,000 acres of irrigation land will need any subsidy to come here to invest money, to build a watering equipment factory. When he does that in Serbia, I'm sure he'll be able to sell it from here in all these countries that, if not in all of them, but in most of the part, we saw here at the Summit, or at a meeting of the Prime Minister of Serbia, China and other 14 or 15 countries. Biomass, we have 4,200,000 acres of farmland. Everything that is fifth and sixth classes has no reason for the state not to move its incentives to encourage itself first as the owner of 800,000 hectares of land, then all those who are private owners, to grow energy plants and to enter, which Mr. Antić knows of course, the Commission of the European Union brought no more than two months ago a strategy where renewable energy sources are one of the important goals of energy policy, among them bio-mass most important. Mr. Prime Minister, I don't understand one thing. I understand your idea about Petrochemy and the entire Petrochemical complex. It's great if you make progress here, there's a lot of problems and there's always been. You did nothing in the same situation, but governments before you. It is not clear to me why the people who have been delegated by the government in the oil industry to the Assembly and the board of directors, to the supervisory board, and above all, the oil industry of Serbia do not strongly insist on going into deep processing, into an investment that could be 300m euros and could be 600m euros. You certainly know very well, the Minister of Energy knows it reliably, without deep processing it is a huge probability that 2018, 2019, we are left without a refinery, so it will be – hook, plow. A year ago, I proposed to the Committee on Economy and Energy to open a debate on the issue, more than a year ago. We have the right to do that. We have the right to the NIS Statute, we have the right to contract, and I think it's more useful for all of us than to exhaust ourselves and crash into debates about whether the rent is 3%, 7%, which is better is, who's guilty, why we haven't managed to fight for this much or for so much. I very much respect every effort to bring in a foreign investor, to find a way to convince people to put money here. Here in Pancheva across the street, there is no 20 minutes from here when you take the means of transport is an investment that could probably be 600m euros over the next three to four years, a capital thing for the Serbian economy. I know Mr. Antić is working on the mining law and it's not going easy, but I urge you to look at the mining strategy that arrived in this assembly in the spring of 2012. Three and a half and a half billion euros in eight to ten years in mining, I won't spend more on that word, but it's a big topic and a big deal. Finally, that's what the Prime Minister was saying, if we had the strength and we weren't cowards with which I agree, in 2011 and 2012, to see that there wouldn't be any problem with spending 300m euros here on subsidies that I'm now talking about farming with. I don't agree with many MPs today. Now I'm telling you again, if we had the strength and courage at the time, if we'd had a better count of political, politicians, if I wasn't talking about people whose job it was, well, of course, they'd rather get the money than not get it, I understand it, we'd have an improvement in productivity in agriculture today, and the whole idea was then to move on to subsidisation by volume, to have a clear insight into the impact of money invested on the increase in gross social product in agricultural production, but we didn't. It's never too late. So because we have significant political differences in how we can move Serbian citizens to believe faster and more strongly that they themselves and their families are able to take their fate into their own hands, none of the governments need to hold their fate in their hands, we are not going to vote for this budget, but truly with and quite frankly, I hope that we can find a common language about more things, than we have done so far and spend our energy much less on political destruction, and much more to try to get out of this 32 or 33 billion gross social product and can't move from these 70% of GDP in 1989. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17204	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. Mr. Veselinović, there are only 70 seconds left. Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17205	I thank Mr Petrovic, and with a good part of what you said, I could agree, but sometimes clarifications are needed and I would like to answer certain questions. First of all, you're saying that there's not enough confidence in the government, I absolutely agree with you. It's important, it's necessary, and it's not enough. That's why I spoke here today in front of all the MPs that we without the people can't do it. I know whatever your MP group is saying, I know that in 90% of things you're okay with, that you know what it is that it has to be, what it is and what it is that's good, as I don't find it difficult to say, and here we've made a mistake, we're not here, etc. We cannot do it without the help of people in Serbia, and that is what people need to understand. You can't hear any more comments – I've graduated from college and I've been waiting for a job for 12 years. No one's coming to call you. We live in a time of market economy, we live in private business, we need to encourage private business, which supports such a massive public sector. About decentralisation, it sounds wonderful and it's tempting to all people, but to know that with the IMF, we had the biggest problems in the negotiations. We've had our biggest problems with the so-called consolidated budget as you know, not the general republican budget. Not with what I'm talking about here today. The biggest problem we had was whether our measures will succeed, whether our measures will apply, because local self-governments, cities and municipalities across Serbia behave irresponsiblely and irresponsibly. I can give you one or two examples. One is a municipality in which one of my men is the president of the municipality, another is another municipality in which some of your others are in power earlier today. In the municipality of Koseric, some people were in power, with some 6.5m-sevenm euros in debt to the small municipality, not to the dinar. I ask you – from what income can Kosjerić municipality return from? Then people don't even get into their rooms for six months, they don't know what to do and how to live and how to survive. We have another example where these are supposed to be in power, you ask an expert – so have you been able to do what these IMF people call a “right biking” or to sit down and how we rarely call them party people in the administration to a reasonable extent and to thank someone, he says – so I am. So how did you do? Well, I transferred them to a public firm. How can I tell you that this is a complete reality for you because everyone counts that it will not be seen in the final balance of the state of Serbia, and it is seen in this consolidated budget every minus, everything anyone does in Leskovec, Vranja, Subotica, Nis, Pirota, anywhere else in Serbia, is seen and we all pay the price throughout Serbia, because it is bad. I wish you many successes with this initiative on property taxes and settlements. I'm skeptical about this, and I'm afraid it will lead you to a number of dangers and many problematic situations. I have no experience in this matter, nor is anyone else in Serbia, I just want to express my personal judgment on this matter. As for Petrochemia, Azotara and the ISK, I want people to know the following things. Petrochemy is now at a loss, minus, its balances are catastrophic, 600,000 euros. It's good that people know. We're not talking about something that's good, which is profitable, which is successful. At the annual level, there is a loss of between 100, 125m euros, 130m euros. "Azotara", which is supposed to be profitable, is down 30,000,000 euros. The ISK, with salaries paid from "Srbigas", as you can see, knows absolutely everything for each of these companies, because I know how hard we are trying and we are struggling to find a solution, is at a loss of around 15,000,000 euros. Only salaries for the ISK are about 10-11m euros. That's where 600 people are employed in kickinda. We did, meanwhile, want to introduce you to this after my first conversation with President Putin, and then President Nikolic spoke to President Putin, and then I spoke to the Prime Minister of Medvedev, and we raised the issue of supplying these several of our most important enterprises with basic raw materials gas, and the basic raw gas is for "Azotara" and for the ISK. If we can get it instead of $438, get it for some by 330, we can make a profitable business or anyone else take it, it doesn't matter at all, and if the state pays taxes and contributes, that's the price of gas we could take. I think President Putin will make it possible for us. This is what we expect in the coming months at the latest, that this kind of thing, it's not "tolins hem", but something like that, it can work out and we can solve at least one problem of Pancheva and one problem of Kickinda. But it's not just Pancheva and Kikinda's problem, it's a problem for all of Serbia, because there's almost total export goods, if "Azotara" worked at full capacity. Now we need some additional sixm euros in investment before any of the investors enter and another 30m-euro investment and then we could destroy everything in an environment of competition, but it all depends on whether or not we can secure this gas price. With petrochemicals, it's a little bit different and a little harder, because in petrochemicals, it's not just gas. Gas is about 15%, and the basic raw material for Petrochemical is primary gasoline. We're in trouble here, and that's why we need that polypropylene factory of about 120m euros, and we need to find the investor. We will convert the debt we have towards the NIS and that exists towards state authorities, according to state institutions, from the EPS, "Serbiagas" and everything else. So, we're going to convert and we're going to get into a significant majority of NIS ownership, but we're missing that third owner, who best be Russian, Chinese or anyone else who could also provide primary gasoline and gas at the advantage of the price, so that Petrochemy can work much more successfully. Unfortunately, the losses have accumulated, and the solutions haven't been for years, but they've always been -- let's add a little bit more to the problem, let's add a little bit more money from the budget so we don't make a problem, and so we've been going from year to year for the past 10 years, and I'd even say a little bit stronger. That's what we've all been doing, so that someone doesn't come out on the street, that someone doesn't say one thing or another, and now we have to finish it, and hopefully we'll make it under a lot of pressure, and I guess the best results you get when you're working under a lot of pressure, to get that job done and to get it done. As far as deep processing is concerned, we've raised the issue. Is everyone fighting enough? Well, not everyone's fighting enough. You know it's always been someone's fee and someone's reward, but I think next year it's moving into a process of deep processing, that's building a facility and all the facilities and everything that's needed, but it's not going to save us. Unfortunately, our fate is much more difficult on this issue, and I fear that 2019, you well mentioned the year, not only because of the late entry into deep processing, but also because of some of the other problems we have made due to the unplanned exploitation of Serbian gas, the unplanned exploitation of Serbian oil, will be found in much larger problems. So now we're trying so hard to, and today I've talked to the OMV people, and today I've talked to representatives of the Russian administration trying to see if there's any way to solve the gas problems, because while we're waiting for LNG or while we're waiting for another solution, we're just going to create ourselves new problems and everything is going to look like "Waiting for Godo". I'm afraid we have a lot of time ahead of us for serious and responsible debates, because we have tough decisions ahead of us, because Russia's giving up whether because of or without European guilt, I'm not going to go into politics at all, it's for another assembly session, it's giving us huge problems, and we're having problems with energy security right now. So we don't have gas problems this year. They're delivering us seven now, and if we need nine and a half million cubic meters a day. We're gonna pull it as long as we need and at this point we're not using the reserve from Banatski Dvor. We're going to grumble in winter after the severe, catastrophic floods, the most severe elemental disasters, and we're going to grumble in the best possible way, but in the future there's a lot of problems, and that's why we're putting so much effort into it, and you know how hard it is to end. Who's going to enter "Azotara" after that kind of privatisation? There, people, there are 16 processes. Whether the Lithuanians, whether these are ours from DB, whether the third one was stolen here, whether the fourth one, whether the appeal came back or not, what this court and that court decided, there's no one alive you can bring in, no one alive. So we need to find some sui generis solution and look for your support, so that it can work and that we can charge taxes and taxes and that these workers can live on it and have a decent salary. There's just no big philosophy here. As far as your ideas are concerned, they're excellent, especially those around energy efficiency. We're not able to implement that idea at this point, we don't have enough money, and we can't take that responsibility at this point, but it's possible to do it in a year and a half and find the best possible program, because it would raise our construction industry that's collapsing, which is due to real loans, and false liquidity and false bonds, by false collaterals, it managed to bring itself into an impossible position. So I believe in 2016 we'll have the strength to do that. It's a big project, it's a serious project, a serious investment, and it always comes back to the state and citizens after all, as has been seen in some countries of the former eastern bloc. I think it's important that we do it as soon as possible. As far as irrigation is concerned, it's our idea to stimulate private irrigation. So, irrigation primarily in the private sector. Anything foreigners take to rent land, you'll see irrigation machines everywhere. They won't take that country anywhere else. It's like a story for Belgrade on the water, where they say -- what they're going to do, because, of course, it's nobody's property, it's going to be leased, which is known from the beginning, but it's going to be a relationship owned by 65-35, I don't know which, and it doesn't matter because it's just being discussed. Yeah, where are they taking the buildings? Yeah, where are they gonna take this or what? You know we're having trouble getting Ferrero into possession, one big Ferrero? There is no more famous European firm than Ferrero. If one of the younger guys is looking at it by accident, it's those Ferrero Rocher bars that make up the most famous conditioning industry in Europe, and we can't bring them into the hazelnut plantation. Why? Because everyone's complaining. Now, let me tell you about that "Aura Afrada" story where everyone jumped. Now go, because within a day in two places in the West Coast, about 700 to 800 people will get between 10 and 100 thousand euros based on the country they had through the actions of a company that otherwise collapsed, destroyed in criminal privatisation, and ask them if they are unhappy. We will again make money as a state, because we will get 12 or 13m euros more than how much it is paid. We're going to get money, and we're going to get a better country, we're going to irrigate the country, and we're not going to pay another dinar of subsidies anymore, and we're going to succeed in the next period to raise productivity, to stop these employees from being fired. I think it's a concept that's good, a concept that works, a concept that brings results. I'm going back to the end to what you said, and what I consider essential, which is why some of them were surprised when I talked about it today. We make a serious result without broad folk support, that's absolutely impossible. All people in Serbia are well aware of those who are against us and those who do not like us for this or that reason, all of them know that these measures must be taken and they all know that someone had to do this. Thank you for saying that there were no political scruples in some, and I said that today. I'm sorry I said that, but I was telling the truth. And you know I told the truth. We don't miss political courage, but we miss something else. We lack the consensus and consent of all people that these difficult measures, the introduction of difficult measures, are necessary. If the people don't accept it, I'm afraid we'll be back at a time of lies, lies, mutual accusations and mutual disrespect, that we'll be back at a time when the results for the state won't be important anymore, and the only thing that matters is who puts them in their pockets. At that time, neither I nor I believe anyone from the Serbian government wants to participate, does not want to belong. I'm sure you don't. So thank you for your constructive discussion, and we will always be open to your proposals and this very, very important initiative we will consider together. It's a very important initiative. One Vienna, the Vienna construction industry rests on it, but of course they have the opportunity to invest as much money as you want. If I may ask you, I'm really, although it's not a bit tired, I've been working all day and then I've been talking here all the time, so please, I'm asking SNS MPs to have an understanding of it. That's all I ask. I know you may be bored and talking too long, but I'm asking you to understand me. So that's a big and important proposal. We're going to seriously, seriously, not just think about it, but maybe next year at this time when we adopt the budget, and those who say it's late, I mean they've never brought it before when they're in power, just so I can remind them. So somewhere this time or something earlier, because there will be no more problems with the IMF, so I am absolutely confident and I am absolutely sure that this will be one of the most important topics, one of the most important investments Serbia will make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17206	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Petrovic has indeed opened a host of extremely important topics, topics that are important for the future of our country. In his presentation, the prime minister, most of it commented and came out with the government's views. I have a few questions to add, first of all, by respecting the importance of these topics. We will immediately after this session where we adopt the budget and these other accompanying laws, at the next session we will have an extremely important reform law, the Energy Act, which as a modern European law applies the entire third energy directive package. There is a lot of work behind this law, but we are preparing a set of new regulations regarding the area of mining, and there you are, Mr Petrovic, absolutely right. It's all going very hard and we're facing a huge intruder that's been in mining for decades and that one attitude that only recognized in itself that there's this state mining and didn't understand this time in which mining becomes, I say, one of the key areas of the industry that has a large amount of fresh capital and foreign capital. A region where there is a huge interest and an area that, without any dilemma, can be one of those items where we will achieve rapid growth and that growth can be very quickly reflected in our GDP growth. At this point, we have large, above all, world's largest players who have investigative rights to several important locations throughout Serbia. First of all, I think of Rio Tintu, who works at Loznica, which is where I think of "Friport McMoran" who works in the area of Bora. Of course, we also have Item Group working on several serious locations, as representatives of the largest Canadian companies. It's very important for us, and we need this whole legal set of things to modernise to make this segment from the investigative right to the opening of the mine effective, because it's something that has a drastic effect not only on that end but, I repeat, on a different country. So it's thousands of new jobs, it's a infrastructure that has to be largely determined by the iplus of the world's parameters that says that every miner gets about nine people a job and works in that entire system. I must point out as an important thing, that in the 2015 budget after a long time there are certain funds for the development of our domestic mining. That we have in that segment a state guarantee of 10m euros planned for the modernisation of coal production in the Soko mine, which works within the Public Enterprise "Underground Coal Exploitation" and that this is part of a project that we are preparing three years after tenm euros that needs drastically to increase the production of coal in our underground exploitation that is working very modestly today. These 4,000 people produce about 600,000 tons of coal annually, and that's completely uneconomic. We are working at this point on the Soko Mine, preparing some concept for the expansion of coal production in the Stavalj mine. We are also working on the opening of the new Cirikovac mine, which should all together lift that coal production to several million a year, which would be the right thing to do and that would finally remove us from the subsidy agenda that we allocate each year for our Public Enterprise "Subway Carbon Exploitation". Biomass. I'm glad you started that subject, too. Without any dilemma, this represents Serbia's great potential and from the point of view of the existing biomass that we have and which creates opportunities for the creation of certain energy objects that would use that biomass. I have to say that the state absolutely supports this thing, and it's the only segment of those renewables that's not under that quota system, and that's something that has absolute support and the ministries, and the electro-prived Serbia that needs to finally buy that energy. I also have to point out something that we've done quite discreetly because it seems to me that in Serbia it's still a bit of a mockery. Serbia's public utility called a public call a few days ago to open the possibility of an energy reed growing in Serbia. It's something that's become a hit all over the set. This is where we come out so timidly, and I believe that this is something that in the coming years can be extremely interesting, considering that some 400,000 ha of the country's 800,000 ha are not even leased and is not being processed at this time. In some European countries, the energy cane reduces coal consumption and up to 50%. So it's something we're seriously working on. The prime minister said about energy efficiency and, of course, at this point in time, we came out with a relatively modest sum of 180 million and aware that we cannot do dramatic things, but we leave to burn fire and leave the possibility of doing some projects in the field of energy efficiency waiting for a better time from the point of view of the budget. On the other hand, he is aware that in the field of energy efficiency, not only should the state invest. We're making up what you and I talked about almost from this pay phone. We are also preparing in the final phase the preparation of sublegal acts that will enable that ESC Treaty, which provides these PPP models that people can invest in energy efficiency projects and that the savings are shared between the investee and the owner of the facility. It is something that will soon be found before us and finally, Serbia's oil industry brings in a lot of challenges and its future without any dilemma depends largely on investment, primarily on essential projects. For the past few years, we have had the situation that the oil industry of Serbia has invested a lot in some regional projects and development, above all, regional retail networks and certain investigative rights in the surrounding countries. I do not argue that this is part of the creation of a wider picture of NIS as a leader in this region but on the other hand, we have put the special accent precisely in the direction of the country's representatives to end investments in the country, i.e. investments in NIS production facilities, and that is part of those conclusions of the mixed committee of Serbia and Russia, and we insist that this is part of the general attitude of all our NIS representatives to complete the deep processing first. There's still this lack of common ground with Russian partners. Is the option of coke or hydrocracking something that's better for us and what's the future? You know, and that was said in public that the difference in investment is significant, that coke is up to 300m euros in investment, hydrocracking somewhere around 600 million. That part of the professional public that is facing us as a state and the ministry absolutely advocates a hydrocracking that is more expensive but makes more money and more perspective in the future. Unfortunately, Russian partners made a decision earlier, before this government was formed, to go into coke and we are now at some stage in the negotiations. I must point out that, ever since this government was formed, a small step has been made in this, to say, strengthening the role of the NIS-related state and that I believe that we can take some step there, as we have done in relation to NIS-to-Petrochemis, the prime minister here did not want to boast, but I want to repeat that we have provided through this contract that NIS provides certain amounts of gas for the needs of the work of Petrochemy at the cost of $280 million cubic meters a year. In previous times, Petrochemy worked with a gas of 480 million, so it is a significant savings. And that we managed to make some steps on primary gasoline where now Petrochemy, that primary gasoline buys from NIS at the price of FOP minus $30. It used to be FOP plus ten, and it sells pyrolytic gasoline at FOP plus 65. These are some elements which are now being achieved by the Petrochemy business, I cannot say more acceptable, but we are less bleeding in the Petrochemy business that we objectively have to keep working because it has a significant impact on our GDP and to a good extent all of what it produces, we export and, of course, only Petrochemy that works, we can keep it so interesting to introduce this third partner who should invest in the polypropylene line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17208	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's MP Konstantin Arsenovic has the word, and let the MP Vladimir Pavicevic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17209	Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister, we are discussing very important laws today, and we have heard various things, to say, and praise and criticism by both MPs and Prime Minister and Prime Minister. What I'm trying to say is that so many arguments have been made that whoever wants to hear it is the one who wanted to understand it is the one who won't do it, I think it's more and more talkable. That's why I'm gonna try to be very brief. I'll simply keep my exposure for a few findings and one question. The United Pensioners Party will support all documents, laws discussed for the simple reason that we are aware that only the measures taken by the Government can come out of this crisis. I want to say that I believe and I am convinced of the good intentions of both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister and all those who want good for this Serbia, that the intentions are good, that there is desire and will, and I think there is strength for me, but I am sure that as far as we can do so, it depends not only on the desire and will, but also on how much we, each individual and citizen, will contribute, understand, make their contribution to resolving all issues by starting from what is in the house to what is at work. For this reason, we will support all these laws and not only these laws but also all the measures and activities the government is taking to ensure that Serbia stands on its feet, to ensure a new future. I would say, I have the right to say, first of all, my children and grandchildren that I don't think that tomorrow my child or grandson will have a job, not to go abroad, I just want this Serbia to become a well-being for all our citizens, to live and work from their honest work. When it comes to pensioners, there was talk here about unpopular measures, measures that were and perhaps too early, etc. Be assured that pensioners simply have one wish to share the fate of all citizens of this Serbia. They're not asking for any privileges, they're not asking for any privileges. They simply want to enjoy as much as possible and how much health allows for what they have earned by their work, and they are certainly bitter at all those activities that they have done in the past to break up everything they have created. I don't want to talk about mobs, we all know that from drugs, to I don't know which, travel, etcetera, it's already become so familiar to everyone. What I very much want to say, and to me very importantly, is that we need to establish a legal state, that every man feels safe, protected, and I think that on that basis, I want to especially emphasize, and we do. Yet citizens become safer, safer. Far from what we want it to be, that I don't think my child will be free to move or not at 12 o'clock at night, and so no one's going to break into my apartment, etc. On that plan, so it's necessary to really do the maximum. I want a simple, peaceful and safe life. I just, I think in that sense, what I want to say to this occasion, I don't want to talk about pensioners' problems to whine, etc., I just needed to be here as a fellow MP like your colleague and a man who has some life experience, to say what my wish and belief is that we, hopefully, will succeed in all of our efforts. In that sense, we'll have support. When I was talking about the legal system, it's one of my questions, and I'm afraid I have to mention it, I have to run it, I've always been on the move for four years, it's the result of a lack of respect for the law and regulations, and that's the issue of harmonising military pensions to military pensioners first in 2004, then in 2008. I must tell you that he is the result of a simple desire for an individual not to obey just because of the existing regulation and existing laws. Now we've put in a situation that this country, or tax collectors, has already paid unnecessaryly about eight billion, I'm talking about the 2004 debt, and God gives me, if, as the situation now stands, they have a right to do so, that debt is going to grow to over 20 billion instead of nine billion, if it gets tough, then the question of how much. I must remind you, there is also the Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Minister of Finance, the Constitutional Court, I respect that someone disagrees, but if the Constitutional Court in the re-trial has made a decision and confirmed that pensioner's right, stating that there has been discrimination and disrespect for human rights, etc., that I do not explain the decision that the Administrative Court has reached a verdict, that the PIO Fund is in line with pensions. It's already been over, now for a year, just keep quiet. My wish was, I've set up here several times, to stop this process from which both states and pensioners have damage. Only someone else has the benefit, neither the state has the benefit nor the pensioners. Four years ago, I suggested that it turn into a public debt, because I'm a conscious man, I can say what I want here, I don't want to express some of my unreal desires, I'm trying to be as realistic and objective as possible, to turn it into a public debt. There was a possibility, I must tell you, that it was just a desire to have a constructive dialogue, believe me, that the pensioners might not even ask for their debt to be paid. But what came? It's come that people have entered court proceedings, and you've clearly stepped up one process so you don't have to go back. I guess this is a tough question, I don't know, when I haven't got it yet, and if I've asked that question four times, I don't know why I didn't get the answer to that, probably there's a problem, but I don't think silence leads to a solution. It's true, whether she's like this or she's like this, favourable or unfavourable, she might hurt, but she's the best answer. Crossing Gordi's knot is always the solution to something that may be difficult to solve. So I ask first and foremost the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour, I count that it is in their jurisdiction, if they are able to answer this question, in what way and how they see this problem resolved and simply stop at least further growth of that debt, growth of costs, growth of interest, growth of court costs, etc. And stop it at this level and not go any further? I think I've made myself clear, and with this here I'll end up, with another emphasis, be assured that our PUPS party will support all those activities, regardless of whether this government or some other government, if we're here, or some other, all those activities that bring the state forward, that will create benefits for all citizens. In that sense, I wish you success, I simply want us to succeed not only you, but all of us to succeed and one day to be proud of this Serbia, the beautiful one, which we have, which we cannot use, we do not know how to use its wealth and its well-being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17210	Thank you, Mr. Arsenovic. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic, and let him prepare himself... Excuse me, the word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Wolfich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17211	Dear Mr. Arsenovic, first of all, I would like to thank you for the attitude you have expressed and to look back on the great problem you have pointed out. In order for people to know what this is all about, it is something we are also not guilty of, and it comes from 2007, the Pension Coordination Act was passed, when there was an increase for civil pensions by 11.06 and the 11.06 was only applicable to military pensioners since 1 January 2008. Some have made wrong political decisions that cost us dearly and terribly today. I'll remind you that at that time it was supposed to be raised to 60% of the average salary, and at that time, military pensioners had 95.2% of the average salary without that increase. Unfortunately for us, the Court of Cassation and the Constitutional Court made different decisions, and now the courts have come to judgment against us. We're in defenseless grapes now. We have two options. Both are very bad for our country, either of which you said we should take it as a public debt, any payments, however we turn, we're in a difficult situation, and why, because someone took care of the election and didn't take care of the future, exactly what we've been talking about all night. We'll see how to solve it, there were ideas by Alexander to take it into public debt, but we're running away from it, believe me. He asked Vujovic to put in further debt before. I didn't allow it because I'm waiting for us to go and get some privatisation incomes, and I'm confident that even below 78 to 77% we'll be able to stop the growth of public debt compared to GDP, so we're avoiding anything we could borrow and where we're looking for state guarantees. So, we don't go into larger infrastructure projects, we're looking for new models, pi pi pi models, concession models, and everything else, just so we don't get into the additional giving of guarantees that were once given, however you get there, whatever you get, because it's totally no matter how much public debt and fiscal deficit we're going to owe us. It's a big problem that we're going to have to solve by the end of the year, and we're also going to ask for the consent of everyone in this room. I hope those who have made this problem have enough understanding to try and solve it. As for the pensioner's position, I talked about it today, and here at the exposé, I said I'd give everything and give anything to avoid any threat to the pensioner. Unfortunately, the highest price is paid by those who have the right to say that they have worked and earned large and large pensions. By the way, they're my father and mother. They are, if you will, because it's all my fault, I hit them hard in the pocket. So, I believe as my parents believe we're doing for our future and for our children, I believe that's how all pensioners understand it. I think pensioners are much better than us middle-aged or slightly older, however you like, they understand both the state and the problems of the state. They've been through a lot of difficult situations. I saw a grandmother the other day. On some television, she was interviewed, and now usually these journalists, when they interview, pull out the worst if they can, because they didn't do anything if someone didn't curse or say something ugly, so it looks like some in the National Assembly have seen it too, so they're looking for a stronger swearing, it's going to jump their ratings. So, one grandmother said, and only she was released – come on, son, don't bother anymore, we've been through a much harder time and a much harder situation to whine all day. I am infinitely grateful to pensioners who best understand the situation in which the country is located, who understand the effort well, who understand the strength of the reforms we are taking. I'll go back to what Mr. Petrovic was talking about and what I was talking about before him, so we can't do all this without the support of the pensioners. We can't do this without the support of our entire society. I want to believe that the unequivocal hypocrisy that pisses you off, that I can't say it pisses me off, but it's wrong for me to notice that things like that happen, that you all have to say that the rebalancing didn't happen because of "Er Serbia" or because I don't know what, and none of these so many too smart people, who need to inform people whether it's true or not, are not able to say it -- people, don't lie anymore, don't make it up anymore, it's just not true. But it's not worth it. If I were to say every day what is not true and what is it that people who do and who fight pain and guess, then I don't know how far we'd go? Another important news, before I finish the answer, deep processing is agreed, as I told you, and construction is on its way in June. I think that's one good news, but it won't solve all our problems. The investment is 300 million, as Sasha used to say. So, I don't think that's going to solve all our problems, even most of the problems, and that it's better to work than not to do it – it certainly is. You, Mr Arsenovicu, thank you again very much to the United Pensioners of Serbia. Once again, I don't want to apologize, and I want to point that out to anyone for the best thing I think we're doing. I don't want to court anyone, and I don't want to apologize to anyone. And what we do, we do the best for the pensioners. What we do, we do best for our children. We're doing a lot, we're doing a lot of work, and I think the whole world recognized that effort. The whole world, no exceptions. There is no one in the world who does not support our reforms. I can list 10 pages to tell you the world's most prominent people -- they're all on the same side, they're all on the side of Serbia and the Serbian government. On the side of our reforms, because they understand the meaning and understand the fact that we're going into something that's difficult, but we're going bravely and we're going before the others. You will see, respected citizens of Serbia, in a few years we will be in front of some others who look so far to you today, just because, as Mr. Petrovic and I have said today, some today do not have the courage or are cowards, so they should not have gone into reform and should not have taken serious political and economic steps. We are. Politics is being conducted because of future generations, because of what history will judge, not what the political public will at any moment consider to be a good or bad move for you. I haven't noticed yet and we haven't received a confession for any single move. Whatever we did, it wasn't good. When the fuel collects two dinars, it's a disaster. When you spend 16 dinars - shut up, don't mention it. When the dinar falls - don't, it's very bad, it ruins stability. When the dinar grows, you kill the export. No matter what we do, nothing's wrong. But I think that the people still understand what is good for Serbia, what is good, and I am confident, especially that pensioners understand it well, and that they will also be able to respect and appreciate it, and that it will come back to them faster than they think – they will have more income and more opportunity for themselves, but also for their children and grandchildren, to leave something behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17212	Mr. Arsenović, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17213	Mr. President, we all know this debt wasn't this government's fault, but I want to thank you for your reply and to make a statement. You're the first man to give any answer about this. And in that sense, I want to thank you. If there were such an approach three, four, five years ago, believe that they would have convinced individual pensioners that no one was suing. And now there wouldn't be what it was. Shut up, that's why I said, it doesn't lead to anything, but a solution, either positive or negative, is always better than silence. So I thank you and I believe what you said, that you will try to find a solution to resolve this. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17214	Thank you, Mr. Arsenovic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17215	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I consider the importance of the Budget Law to be best witnessed by a member of our 99th Constitution. Dear guests, ministers and Prime Minister, in Article 99. The constitution, item 11), says the National Assembly adopts the budget and the final account of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the government. This means that this law is a special law compared to other laws. When we talked to you here, Mr Vujovic, about the first rebalancing, about the Privatisation Act, you told us here then we will have 15 days to prepare for the draft budget law. Dear gentlemen, we haven't had 15 days to prepare well for the draft budget bill. I now call you to the principle of ethics responsibility, Mr Vujovic, who says that if word and word are not kept, it must be moved from that place from which the word is given, gentlemen. Or should I add one more thing here, since the Budget Law is a special law, we have the Serbian Government here, and I am now talking first and foremost to the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, to whom other laws have been added. In addition to the draft budget law, we have 11 other draft laws to discuss here, and it looks to me like an attempt to capture the remains of our parliamentaryism and it's particularly worrying...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17216	Mr Pavicevic, please, we are not in determining the agenda, but we are on a bill and I ask you to talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17217	Mr. Becic, I'm talking about what's the agenda point. I call myself, Your Honor, on the Constitution, to the importance of this bill that we are talking about. Mr. Becic, I'm asking you now to give me back the time you've taken from me. I'm going to log out and re-apply to count my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17218	You'll be on time. Go on, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17219	Dear gentlemen, it is particularly worrying for me that all of this, therefore, the dictation of the remains of our parliamentaryism, is taking place with the support of the congregation's majority. Here's what a respected gentleman says about a professor of law school, and Mr. Vukic likes to boast that he was a hardworking student of that university. Mr. Dragoljub Arangelovic, here's what he says. He says: “Not depending on the people but on the government, the congregation’s majority does not care either to satisfy the people’s desires or needs but rather to satisfy the government, and if the government is unable to manage, the obedient congregation majority will not remove it and bring another capable. ” To complete this quote, gentlemen of honor, Professor of the Faculty of Law Dragoljub Arangelovic. He says: “There must be some knowledge of how the earth will be managed, ” Mr. Vukicu. He writes: "It would be best to abandon these Balkan manners with seemingly parliamentaryism and practice genuine parliamentaryism, as the Constitution prescribes." Dear gentlemen, the professor of Law School who wrote this down, Mr. Vukic, not in 1960, in 1927 in "Serbian literary messenger", as if he described our session today of the Serbian Parliament. Dear Mr. Vukic, I believe that your inappropriate performance today in the Assembly has only confirmed this picture of a humiliating relationship between the executive authority and the legislative body, and about the extent of distance from the session of the MP, I think, an opportunity to declare the Constitutional Court. The second thing, gentlemen, when at the end of the year, and this is the end of the year, December month, is proposing a rebalance of rebalancing, and the first rebalance we had two months ago, Mr. Vukic, I don't think it's possible for the rebalancing of the rebalance at the end of the year to say it's commendable, as you're trying to convince us here. The rebalancing of rebalancing, gentlemen, is a picture of either irresponsibility or amateurism. So, the proposal for a new rebalancing for me, gentlemen, is a sign that the government had a bad plan. So, the government's plans two months ago were impeccable and incomplete and now watch out, we have government plans two months ago that were impeccable and incomplete and now we are here, by emergency procedure, with another 11 draft laws asking us to believe in a plan that should last a year, gentlemen. I have one more thing to mention here, when it comes to the 2015 draft budget, early in the year, Mr. Vukic, you've ordered -- with all your strength in reform. Mrs. Widowsky was here the other day, not in the Assembly, but here in our country, let's say, "This is the historic budget." I've read this draft budget, I don't see it being historically, gentlemen, I don't see Mr. Vukic, not a word of reform in this budget, except for the real assessment of the revenue side, Mr. Vukic. This proposal reminds me of the previous structures, respected gentlemen, by the volume of subsidies and by 43 members of the Law on Amendments and Law Supplements for 2014...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17220	Time, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17221	... If I can just finish the sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17222	You've got five seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17223	... and the draft budget law for 2015, we have submitted 24 amendments and I expect a debate on the essential and content of these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17224	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17225	I want to thank you for the opportunity to speak again about my inappropriate performance, not political hypocrisy, but something that seems to me to be much harder than that. So my inappropriate performance was such that at least one opposition MP agreed with him in one part. In fact, for people who didn't want me to say it again, I said that the people who ran this country were cowards because they couldn't bring any reform measures. I was quoting myself. I don’t see any offensive, no ugly words, and the lectures are given to me by those who called the vice president of the National Assembly “stok one. ” How is that possible? How could you possibly think that? I saw it on one of the TVs tonight, whether it's B92, who said you don't know who said it, even though you can see who's saying it and when they say it. I've seen a lot of things in my life, but I haven't really seen that kind of microbe and that kind of hypocrisy. If he'd done it, God forbid, one of us would have been on a pillar of shame for days, weeks and years. Since one of you has done this, the citizens of Serbia know this, then it needs to be hidden, hidden and said that no one knows who it is. I'm sorry, I didn't call anyone cattle or anything, but I said that people are cowards, they're stuck, you have a quote, because no reform measure, no measure that weighs on them didn't have the strength and the ability to bring it. All that I think, I think it's a very polite approach, that's what I've heard shouting at. Whether it was a curse or not, I understand. That's not scary. But what some have reacted to with "stoko one" to lecture me on the doting of parliamentaryism, and all the while someone is talking in this House about how someone's rights have been denied. I won't say another word about Parliament. Well, you brought that Rules of Procedure. That Rules of Procedure is unchanged. You brought it in, you who were elected on that election list, you brought it in, no one changed it for Yotu. Everything goes according to those rules in that Rules of Procedure. Nothing was added and nothing was taken, in any way, but you liked it when you sat here, and now you don't like it when you sit down. We didn't like it back then, but we haven't changed it at all in any way, so you don't say we're breaking the rules or changing the rules for you when you're in opposition to when you're in power. Sorry, that's a big difference. What kind of dictation of parliamentaryism, what inappropriate act? About the fact that I was allowed to come and tell you – don't speak ill of Er Serbia anymore, don't deceive the people to bring the rebalancing for it. You say -- rebalancing after two months, rebalance rebalancing, and now it's like some kind of public joke, some people think they're very smart when they say that. Yeah, I hope we have five rebalances next year, we're going to miss five times, and we're going to have all five less expenditures and higher incomes. I hope it's next year. I don't understand, you said - we don't have good plans or we're amateurs. Okay, maybe we're amateurs, you're professionals. We're amateurs because we've taken over. This is important for people to understand, we took on ourselves three months ago a heavy burden that we would have the largest possible fiscal deficit of 225 billion, and we accepted the impact on ourselves. We've determined it won't be anywhere near 225 billion, it won't be with all the donations, with all these debt payments or 190 billion. That's why I'm happy and happy. All our incomes are higher than we expected, it's true, and our expenditures are less than we expected. Are we ashamed of that? Is it from making jokes? That's what jokes can make people who don't know anything about this job. They can make jokes out of them in various media outlets that don't understand anything, that haven't read a single budget. You can't do that to those of you who have read a lot of budgets and who know what budgets are. That's what serious people can't do. There's a lot of people out there who don't want to be serious. They can afford it, but serious people can't afford it, and there are a lot of serious people in this country. You said – there is no reform, and the slogan was of its own strength in reforms. We have gone absolutely into reforms and these reforms are recognised by the whole world. Labour law, the Law on privatisation, the Law on bankruptcy, the Law on Pensions, the measures of fiscal consolidation as the most difficult reform measures anyone can ever take and implement in the work, the Law on Planning and Construction. You'll see next year, since we're being charged with a place on the Doing business list, I guess it was 95th, I have no idea which, but 90th and someone. You'll see when we jump 40 seats next year because in March, we'll get a score. I'm just waiting for you to say it and admit it -- yes, Serbia has made the greatest progress in the whole world, because we are now committed and that's what we are doing. The Alertary Protection Act, all the reform laws and all these laws were supported by the European Commission, all of these laws were supported by the Venice Committee, absolutely everything and everyone said they were essential reforms, everyone says, the whole world says, only some of us are wrong and that's okay, but I can't accept just one thing, the Constitutional Court will say whether "stod single" is appropriate behavior or inappropriate. I'm sorry, I can't understand that policy of yours. I'm sorry again, and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17226	I thank the Prime Minister. The word is from MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, some things have been said by those who call their colleagues cattle, which is how they call cattle and those who sent us to this Parliament, which is, most difficult, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Some things that really don't have any relationship with the truth. The sentences spoken demeaning the government's attitude towards the National Assembly. Demeaning the government's attitude towards the National Assembly and that of the government in which the entire cabinet, the Prime Minister of the Government, is patiently with us all day and we have more members of the cabinet of Prime Minister Vukic than the MPs of the former or current regime in Vojvodina. Then who's humiliating? Alexander Vukic's office or you who aren't interested in the debate at all, except for the one we saw just now by calling us cattle? You said "defying parliamentaryism." Be consistent. You didn't mind getting on the same list with people who hadn't sent them to the National Assembly for nine years, they didn't send the final budget bill. You don't care about that. You don't care that 2009 was a budget rebalance, but not because of these measures that have been implemented now with this budget rebalance, not because of the reduced deficit, not because of the increased tax, excise and everything that makes life. Not because the money that was saved will go to the farmers, it will go to those debts that you made. No, you didn't mind when they made a double budget rebalance in 2009 by increasing the deficit, just to stand on that list, just to come here, just to call colleagues, and thus all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, cattle. Be consistent. If you object to us, blame yourself and those with whom you are on the same list first.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17228	Thank you, Mr. Granny. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Pavicevich. No one mentioned you personally. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I have the right to replica, as other MPs had the right to reply. Nobody mentioned you personally. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Mr. Vukic must have spoken to me, not to any other people's messenger. Ask Mr. Wolfie if he spoke to me. Mr Pavicevic, the chairman of the National Assembly decides. I estimate that no one mentioned you by your name or by your last name and you don't have that possibility for replication. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, Mr Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17229	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests today at the National Assembly. He's injured, Mr. Becic, I mean Article 104, which regulates the right of the MP to speak for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Becic, and the right to the replica of one of the MPs. The MP, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has the right to reply not only when a guest in the National Assembly or another MP mentions him by his name and last name, but also in that situation, Mr. Becic, when someone misreads something the other MP said. Mr. Vukic came forward to comment on a part of my speech and I think he misread a part of my speech and, dear Mr. Becic, if we want to follow the rules and procedures, then I now have the right to reply to both Mr. Vukic and Mr. Babic. That means, Mr. Becic, that you have an obligation to give me the right to two replicas here, not to challenge my right to one, Mr. Becic. Please allow me a replica now in two minutes for Mr. Wolfich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17230	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I don't understand you. What's the reason I don't understand you? Because once you say -- don't mention me as a former regime, and now that the speakers have talked about the former regime, you recognize yourself there. I didn't see that possibility for your replica. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr Pavicevic, that right is decided by the chairman of the National Assembly. Read Section 4. I've assessed from your earlier presentations, where you've challenged us to mention you as an ex-model, that you now recognize yourself in previous speakers who spoke about the previous regime. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I still don't recognize you here, Mr. Pavicevic. Thank you. Please allow me to hold a session of the National Assembly. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: This is your reform. You deny the right of the People's Messenger to speak. It's your reform. Mr. Pavicevic, don't let me give you a warning. Thank you. Mr. Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17231	Mr. Chairman, I hope you don't mind me, Article 27 and Article 107, the dignity of the National Assembly, of course, but the 27, way you run it. You've had a long day today. All day long a very tense debate, the nervous representatives of the former regime, the few, of course, presently in the Parliament of the Will of the People, but I must ask you that because of the citizens of Serbia, who are watching this in the coming time, we do this debate as is appropriate to the National Assembly. I understand that the previous speaker is an inexperienced MP and that he's jumping up, that he speaks when he doesn't get his word, that's all the opposite to the Rules of Procedure, and you should have warned him. I know it's not long enough in the Assembly to remember some of the things I remember, but the president of his party when he was president of the government didn't leave the budget to Serbia, but they had a temporary funding for his resignation, because he didn't have the courage, but had cowardly retreated and resigned from the post of Prime Minister in late 2003, so we had a temporary funding for it, and later here he called you and it was seen in the TV broadcast, because I was just watching the transmission, I wasn't here in the O.R., and he saw what he said and what he said. In direct transmission he said – cattle one. So the president of Mr. Pavicevic's party and it was seen in the transmission, so his face, and it was heard, not seen and heard what he said. There's no dispute here. I ask you, for all of this, because this puts the dignity of the National Assembly at risk, that in the coming period, in this time that we have left to discuss, we take care of it and that, as appropriate to the MPs, we speak until the end of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17232	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ) Mr Pavicevic, you know very well that there is no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Bozovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17233	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, you have violated Article 103 for asking for a replica when it comes to today's debate on a very important law, as regards the fate of citizens in 2015. As you know, the whole law, with the following 11 others, has entered the assembly procedure beyond the Budgetary System Act...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17234	Mr. Bozovicu, what you're saying has nothing to do with the member you quoted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17235	Let me finish. You didn't let Mr. Pavicevic get his word when he asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17236	Mr Bozovicu, you know very well that you cannot point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure that has not been done directly. After that, Mr. Shormaz answered, and you answered. You didn't answer the moment the injury was done. When you think the injury was done, you don't have a chance to speak. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17237	Two things I'd like to tell you. First, if I may ask you, as an ordinary citizen of Serbia, not as president of the Serbian government, the respected vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to let everyone speak as much as they want, they have no arguments anyway. It's just my request for you. It doesn't seem right when I say they should talk as much as they want. That's what I was just talking about. The other thing I wanted to say to the citizens of Serbia. The fact that we are suffering insults today, and the fact that some are getting up from their places and threatening both hands and fingers and in all other ways possible, by not choosing expressions and making it seem to their helpers that it is time for them to strike out of all government power, by myself, I just want to tell people that patience, patience and non-response is not a reflection of our fear, our weakness and that people in Serbia need to know that because we have confidence, full confidence in the measures we bring, in our own diligence, in our own honesty, in our own responsibility to the citizens, and therefore we are willing to endure all these things, and it is for the people to appreciate it. I know that tonight, and those who help you, who support the former regime in the media sense, and about their bosses, you've been giving those permits, you've been agreeing with them. Who's there, or how he's paying for it, that I don't get into it, that all the company and the company went through, and I'm not going to get into it, but some of them you won't be able to believe tried to hide what's been said here. Imagine, it was a big scandal that I said -- some of them cowards, because they couldn't take any brave reform moves. And the cattle one was probably a democratic outflow, a democratic stand, which we should all admire and applaud, because that's the opposite of meeting parliamentaryism. Since I don't have a problem with all your announcements on all social networks, how you're gonna destroy me, how you're gonna show me what you're gonna show me, I don't know what to ask me, go ahead, but I can't wait for something like that to happen, and I'm gonna stay here trying to answer every single question of yours, because I know how much we fought, I know how much we did, I know what we've done, I know what we've changed everything, and I know what's gonna get better. I respect you very much, and I respect you all very much, but I'm afraid when you talk about guests ironically, I'm afraid there are more guests at this point. We from the government rather than you from the opposition. Thank you. The most beautiful.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17238	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17239	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Becic, you have again injured Rule 108, I quote on the order of the National Assembly session the President of the National Assembly, not the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is taking care of. So I'm asking you to let me explain in one or 15 seconds what I wanted to say. Mr. Pavicevic, let's just go back to history five minutes ago...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17240	You can't talk about the injury that was done again, in your opinion once before.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17241	Just a five-minute gene. So, Mr. Pavicevic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you didn't give it to him, and that's why I advertised Article 103. Then you let Mr. Shormaz defend the government in two minutes and give a political speech. Now again, you do not care in line at the National Assembly session, but you leave it to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. For the simple reason that today we had the opportunity we missed, which is to discuss the law that is most important for citizens, for 2015, especially when they are concerned, we managed to have a quality debate through replicas when this law and eleven others are concerned. I think it's a shadow that's about to fall into the National Assembly. I believe that you have greatly contributed to the unquality atmosphere that has been held in this home today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17242	I thank Mr. Bozovic. Let it be my sin, and the Prime Minister is giving you a lesson on reforms in Serbia. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. I have no basis for giving you my word. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: He allowed the prime minister. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17243	Thank you, Your Honor. I have to admit, Mr. Wolfie, I'm not sure you'll make it through the reforms. That's what I'm most honest with you because here's the whole day I've been listening to the hypocrisy of the general government. It's not just in this congregation, it's a hypocrisy government completely in society because I guess we're used to living in hypocrisy for so many years. Then you have one situation simply amazing, when the Fiscal Council suits you, then we call on the Fiscal Council and its criticism, and when the Fiscal Council says that maybe 40% of the public sector workers should be fired, which you of course didn't do because it would be just a murder for this country, then the Fiscal Council is no good. We live constantly in a terrible hypocrisy. For example, now that you mention it, so the whole state saw it, that -- the cattle one, but it seems that some media didn't want to see it. If Mr. Babic or Mr. Jovicic or any of us had said that, we'd be hanging out here in front of the Assembly. They'd hang us here. That's literally how it would have been. They invited me to the lynch. But I guess that's allowed here and unfortunately such hypocrisy where you have some kind of criticism every day without knowing what's being criticised, and yet you don't even know what's being offered as an alternative. In doing so, if we take an external factor that obviously has a significant impact on Serbia's progress, especially in the region, if we take some internal opportunities, I apologize to Mr. Vukic, we had a situation where some of the interesting lobbyes drove Al Dahra away. It may be the largest agricultural consortium in the world. They brought out some peasants with a story – someone will take away our land. Apparently the Arabs are going to take our land, and they weren't protesting when they privatized these same combinations to the Sharics. Sharici seemed to be good investors, but Al Dahra is not a good investor. When you have in society, with obvious intent and I showed it today, because certain portals are exclusively, be careful not to be interested at all in educational workers or that there was some parole for educational workers – we find it difficult, we have poor wages, not but a revolution to implement. The revolution is the only solution. Someone here wants a revolution. But I have to tell you all of us who are here clearly see what this is all about and if we're all supposed to get hurt together, we're going to get hurt, but this has to be done. I'm glad you're so determined at Ataturka level or, say, the book of Danil Petrovic in Montenegro that many at the time challenged, but he created the state and today he writes the most about it, because he created a system, because he, for example, broke up with blood revenge. That's how you came here to end this corruption, to end this crime, and that's where we have to have all the support. I don't know if this society will be ready to give you full support. I am truly afraid that someone here wants and desires chaos, especially in the era of these global conflicts, when it does not suit someone to make Serbia stronger. There's no good news here. Mr. Sertic, correct me if I'm wrong, you said last week that we saved 31 billion dinars in our budget from public enterprises just because they started to apply certain government measures. It's 26 companies. Twenty companies saved 31 billion dinars. No one published that, absolutely no one. Because it seems good news here isn't allowed. Morbics are allowed here. Here it's allowed to absolutely every day say Mr. Woolin had someone grinning in the paper because he didn't give the NGO more money. After all, it's my personal opinion, it can't be the NGO sector if it's financed from the budget. Then it's the government's sector. I'm sorry to be so open, but I'm really glad if it goes down to the NGO sector. After all, there are some NGOs here dealing with Serbian tradition and Serbian history, so they don't get as much money as they get from individual NGOs in various ways and how they pump money out of there. I have to ask you, Mr. Vukic, you said something that I didn't like, let's say this fourth sector of government that's constantly being created, and then the Citizens' Protector, then the Commissioner for Public Information, you say -- if someone mentioned the salary to them, then someone from Europe jumps, excuse me, are they stronger than the state? What's this about? I don't know what they can write in the media and tell us how we eat in expensive restaurants and I don't know what we do, but when you mention the Guardian of Citizens, it's a disaster, it's a dictatorship. No one seems to say anything to him. The question arises whether this man is stronger than the state and is this fourth sector of government that is clearly being created here and we see that there are some intentions to introduce them into the Constitution, are they stronger than the state? I really need to ask that question, as I do for these clubs. I'm a big Red Star fan and I really love that club, but I'm sorry, it's got to be privatized. The state can no longer throw money into something that doesn't make any profit. I'm sorry, but I'd like you to implement that kind of determination, because ultimately there are some people here who are rooting for the Nis Workers, for Vojvodina, which is where the state wouldn't invest and give, but in the Star and Partizan? I don't see any logic, I guess we should all take it equally or privatize it, and I support Mr. Widowic to pass that kind of law and to privatize it. I must commend these incentives in agriculture, because I absolutely support every anti-Tacun measure. This will finally bring a small peasant, a small farmer, a benefit and bring him a certain profit. Any honor for these incentives and any honor that the National Bank of Serbia in one law last week, among other things, has included financial services users as farmers, because they can now raise credit and as any natural person, and these are some good things. I see that there's finally someone moving here to protect the farmers and we've got one normal game in agriculture, which every normal person here stands for, but we didn't have it because the tycoons here set the price. Unfortunately, that's how it was, however much we wanted to have one normal market game. Then he dictates the price, buys from the peasants at a really bad price agricultural product and then exports it twice as expensive and doesn't pay, which is the worst. Then we had big and successful businessmen who have huge megamarkets and never pay suppliers anything, but they're very successful because they have a monopoly in retail. That's how it worked here. You see, in such a system, where the state was without any resources and where the ministries were with accounts in the blockade, where you had an Electro-priority of Serbia with 400,000 dinars of debt, where you had monopoly companies like "Parking Services" in Belgrade that were in a down state, now you've come here and tried to do something, and of course it kind of went back to normal. Although every normal person asks you – how is it possible that EPS had 400,000 dinars of debt, because it is the monopoly company only in charge of the distribution of electricity, it simply comes to people to be baptized with both the left and the right hands, but that was the case. Of course, as the state strengthens, as you repay these debts, unfortunately, we really must today, the citizens need to know, to pay somewhere, as you say, a billion and 300 million euros of our debts, which, of course, remained from the previous regime, should pay. It's all coming today at the checkout, and we're fat. That is why I believe, because of all this pressure, and you threw away your glove today, and you said well, "If the people will not, let them choose someone else." I'm just asking someone else to tell us what he's offering. If it offers "Vojvodine Development Bank" or "Agrobank" or something like that, don't offer it. You offer us a solution, an alternative, what do you mean by, say, educators now to raise your salary? What kind of dry drain will you drain that money out of to give an educator a higher salary? That's what I'd like you to answer, but I can't hear that kind of answer today. In the end, I'd like to ask you a question. People rarely ask me, so here I am, taking this opportunity with regard to the budget itself. Let's say, people say -- maybe more money would be if there was a law on the origin of the property. Now, I'm asking you, is there any chance of such a law being passed? If not, it doesn't matter. If there is, it would be good to tell the citizens. Anyway, full support for these measures. This is the only chance for the state to get away with it. Who doesn't understand what I can do to him. But, you know, this society didn't realize in its own time that the railroad was supposed to pass here at the time of King Milan, so we eventually accepted the railroad, because we were saying the enemy would come with the railroad. It's always for the history of the one who did something. Whether or not the people love him at that point is the least important. They didn't like Ataturk either, so today they're writing, of course, big letters of his name. Anyway, thank you and full support.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17244	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17245	I'll try to answer, Mr. Djukanovic, more questions you've raised. Perhaps I would once emotionally agree with you about certain bodies and institutions, but probably sharing absolutely certain, certainly closer to the truth that we are both wrong and that we should change our relationship with the Protector of the Citizens and towards the Trustee of Information, although I almost never agree with the political comments of the other one. This is important for the functioning of the system institutions in our country and each of us has to change our relationship with them. As for the subject of hypocrisy that we were talking about and the fact that the government was criticised after Mr Krstic's resignation, who asked for 20% reduction in pensions and 15% of salaries, because they told us at the time – these are the real reform measures, when we took those measures for half or three times less, they said – well, what you did at all, you shouldn't have taken it. When the Fiscal Council says – don't give subsidies to enterprises in restructuring, the next day support all enterprises in restructuring where nothing is produced, where workers strike and seek salaries that are not earned. Somewhere they are, but mostly they're not. That's what we do every day. The important thing is that you mentioned Al Dahra. That was the best example. When we talked about the coming of Al Dahra, they told us, well, don't take Al Dahra, what to take our land, they're terrible, get them out of here. When people said wait, we only go where we are welcome and retreat from here, then they say, "Well, where is Al Dahra, what has no such investment and what is not Al Dahra?" So you're wondering what to actually do and how to do it? That's why I don't care much. I cited all these examples, I made a plan, and I said I wouldn't give up on the plan. Serbia's government will not give up its plan and programme. There are two solutions. Either we're going to push through the end and we're going to be successful, like the British government, like the Estonian government and some other governments, or some others are going to come back and they're saying '90s, they're going to take us back to the 16th century, where they're going to increase, they're going to load money into trucks to share it, because they're doing it in some previous years, and they're going to bring us back to a completely apocalyptic state. Whatever the people want. As for the behaviour of certain tycoons through both the media and through everything else, listen, this -- cattle one, which is referred to the president, or the chairman of the National Assembly, has not even published the RTS. We're not just talking about one or the other or I don't know which TV. Well, that's not the TV they're talking about either the dictatorial regime or I don't know what it is, in which the dictatorial regime of none of its journalists has hired, let alone any editors. I'm happy we haven't changed any editors, which is why we haven't brought any of our own. We didn't do anything about it and let them do their job however they wanted, but let us know that the president of a political party, a man elected on the list of one opposition party called the chairman – the cattle one. Did you notice that I didn't mind these guys who got up, yelled at me and threw anything at me? It's the heat of a political struggle in the Assembly. It's all right, it's happening in the National Assembly and it's not the first time or the last time. It's the National Assembly, it's the arena, it's the fight and it's okay. Emotions come to a certain stage, and that's all right, but to use those expressions, really street terms, there's no other word to describe it, and to try to hide it from the whole public after that, by pretending that the RTS transmission didn't see it and that it wasn't known. It was an accident. Thank these guys for doing their job. That's much more and much worse talking about us than I thought. As for privatisation in sports, Mr. Djukanovic, we don't pass the law because we couldn't implement it. I acknowledge my defeat, the personal defeat and defeat of the government that is unable to implement the reform measures in the field of sport, at least at this point, however much Vanja Udovic has stood up for them, because it is obvious that some in our society are so strong and would have the support of everyone else, that we cannot do it at this time. Not because they're going to yell at the stadium – a gay wolf or I don't know what, which, as you can see, I don't mind saying it again because it applies to me, and the most brutal nonsense they say in the absence of arguments and in anger for what reason. So that's the problem we're going to face in many years ahead, because, let me tell you, no one understands you here. Whoever you say that to the sportsmen, I'm telling you right now, you knock on the closed door. Everyone's lying to you that they're for privatization. There's no one to privatize. I know it's true, dear friends, and unfortunately for me, I have to say it and endure their anger, and now I'm going to tell you why they're lying. Because while that's the case, you can have that circus from the board of directors yesterday at the Red Star, you can have a circus from the boards of directors at the Partizana, a circus from the boards of directors at every club where you have losses of 50 million, 20 million, I don't know how many million, but they're now discussing how they're going to explain that they've spent great reform measures by changing the name of the stadium or by not knowing what else they've done. What are you guys talking about? And now we all have to act silly and not see it, because no one can say that in our country. I admit, I don't have the strength, I have the courage to say it, I don't have the strength or the power to do what's right, just, good to do all the way. That's what I'm telling you most openly. Because I know how everyone else would settle – give us a five million more, and then we're on the green branch, and here just let me get Telecom back here and give me NIS over here and give me some more Lutrija, about 300,000, the Commercial Bank 200,000, and it'll all come to its own. Of course, you threw that money in the well. They filled their pockets, and these clubs fell and fell and fell in the future. Privatization, ten times I offer them all. Ten times that's what I'm talking about. They say - yes, we are for privatisation. And tomorrow, let that crazy Wolf and him and the privatisation, what we have from privatisation, we can't steal when the privatisation comes, because that's when the boss takes care of the club. You all know that's true. We can't, we don't have the strength. As for Serbia's reform readiness. When you ask people if they're for reforms, 90% of people are for reforms, and when you come through the focus of the group and through research and when you tell them what reforms are, what the world means, what the whole civilized world means, what they all mean, and then you realize that for reforms is seven, eight, ten percent of people. It's a story of railroads and plums. I'm going to remind those who don't know this historical story when the railroad was introduced, it's said don't cut our plums, what we need these iron strips, you're going to destroy our tradition, you're destroying everything we've created for centuries and centuries. It's like today or last year that we had a car crash and oak and now I'm asking you everything -- do you know what happened to the oak? I'm telling you, none of you do. None of you know, but it was important to start the story of one oak just to say – hey Wolf, stop, we stop you, you can't move forward. And none of you have any more interest in that oak and no one knows what its fate is and no one knows what happened to it. But it was the point when it went through the papers, that's it. I'll remind you in the paper when you're going to publish the contracts, by television, the topic suddenly the widest possible – when you're going to publish contracts with "Er Serbia", Vucic must have gotten some money or someone there. We read them all the contracts, we published everything, they shut up, and they're no longer interested in "Fiat," and it was like we're interested in "Er Serbia" and "Fiat". For "Fiat," we gave ten times as much money, at least ten times as much money, I can't even say everything. But more if you noticed in the Serbian public, no one cares about this "Fiat" and how much we gave the subsidy and everything else. Just to see how everything is actually unfairly organized and how everything is broken and someone can do whatever they want, say what they want and how they want. So this "stoko one" must have become a criterion of democracy, and someone said the uninterrupted remnants of parliamentaryism. Excuse me, do you want me to ask you when was the last time the Prime Minister was in the entire budget debate and was answering opposition MPs? Don't let me remind you that almost never happened, almost never. As for the possibility of adopting the budget we have here dates you generally adopted on December 29th, the final bill to lay down to the citizens never brought. Since money was spent we never got, nobody was interested in it at the time. We had two budgets in June and April but for the previous year. Can you understand that? So, not for that year, so they're six months early, but six months back, we're making budgets. But it's important to tell us how late we are. I agree we're too late. We were late for one simple reason, and that's because we worked with the IMF to make you this transparent budget and to have it on 1,700 pages, because I saw some jokes and jokes, I guess, and I don't know what's funny about it. It's the first time you have transparently every penny where, how and how it's spent. We've put a lot of work and a lot of effort and a lot of energy into it. These photos of those who write revolutions, revolutions and others sitting on benches like coffee tables, don't bring me any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17246	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17247	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, the chairman, you haven't been to a full-day debate, you've come to the Assembly at five o'clock, but I'm going to ask very specific questions because I have very little time and I'm going to talk about the budget. I'm going to ask you what health care professionals, people in education, pensioners, not like a gentleman who spoke for PUPS. You said – we had a dramaticly good charge in October of the month. I'm asking you, Prime Minister, does that mean that we've had a dramaticly bad charge before because to make a dramatic good one, we had to have a dramatic bad one. The second question that these people would ask is, is it possible that we don't have a director of the tax administration, and is it possible that there is a director of the tax administration and an efficient tax administration so that we can charge another 5% of the tax revenue on these 924 billion taxpayers and get to 50 billion, how much are savings from the reduction in wages? On the other hand, Mr. President, tell me in what way is the praise for this rebalancing that has been brought in, the second rebalancing that has been brought in, how is it possible that it is commendable, if we know that the 2014 budget has been broken up and that we have previously had a rebalancing?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17248	Please, you don't have any more time. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17249	I'll answer what you said even though that last part didn't come out so I could answer you. So the word was how it was possible for us to break the budget up, that is, with our first rebalancing so that we could boast about others. Because we showed the others that it was less, that we spent less than we planned on with the previous rebalancing that we admitted to breaking through, and that's why we show that we spent less than we expected and that you here as MPs adopted in the Assembly. Let me get back to two things. I said it was a great charge. It was one of the two or three of our best months we've had in the last two years, but since you can count it because of the relationship to the currency, then certainly the best of our month. So it was dramatically better. I'll tell you, it's no secret, I guess that was a rebalancing word. We had a lot of problems, especially after the flood. And before the flood, we had problems, but we had huge problems since May, June, July and August. All numbers have started to move for better than September of the month. Everyone, and the excise on tobacco, and the excise on oil and VAT collection. Everything's starting and everything's getting better and better in the last three months. We only have the first 15 days of December of the month, so we have a VAT charge, 22 billion from 19 billion from 2013 to 15 December when it was a great December, and we planned to have it at our level of 20 billion, to be slightly larger, it reached 22 billion. So, we did it, and we're doing better, and that's great news. As far as the IRS is concerned. This is now one of the most difficult and interesting issues because we will have to carry out serious and difficult reforms in the tax administration over the next two years. It won't be possible in a month to get rid of, as you know, it's too complicated a system. However, there were complaints about Mr Marinkovic's work from a large number of tax administration people. He's kind of unhappi, a little weird, but you know, since he's a duty-holder, we've been charged because he's got no fear and no one can buy him. He may not be the most professional in the world, but no one can call him on the phone and tell him – don't go here or there. He was threatened by a man from the ruling majority who had a lot of cafes and restaurants recently in Kopalnik. He said, since he found him four cafes or, I don't know, five cafes, there are no registered workers anywhere and they don't issue fiscal bills. Then this one came to threaten him with the police, to threaten him with everything and everyone. This man is a freak and he has no fear. In that sense, I think he personally brought in a new wave and a new energy, and whether we need people who, in education and in any other sense, can have a much greater capacity than I, or Marco, or anyone else, have no doubt that they are. If you have any good suggestions, we're ready to accept them. Because, if you've seen, we're not going through any party personnel or anything. We're trying to find the best people we can. I hope that on this point we can achieve even better results and a key answer to your 50 billion-dollar question, so some 50 billion is 440m euros. So it's not real, let me tell you right now, it's not real. If that happens, and we'll do our best to make half of it happen. The IMF recognises these measures immediately. So, they tell us, that's why I've told us many times today – everything we earn, everything we do will be like a recognised measure, but only when it happens. They've admitted to us in advance these so-called so-called. "hard measures", these hard measures. They don't admit anything else until they see the results. They do not recognise in advance "The Iron". It's only when they see both high furnaces lit, when they see the results, but when they see them, they accept them immediately. That's why we're going into a fierce fight against the gray economy or whatever you want. We're getting into this fierce fight, and if any of that works out right now, we can solve that problem. So it's important that every man, every pensioner, every young man in every place, when you go to a burger shop, everywhere, ask for a bill. Because it doesn't hurt the state, it damages yourself if you don't take it. We hospitals have to build from there, we schools have to build from there, we kindergartens have to build from there, we have to build from there, we have to transport, we have to invest everything we have in the highways we have to pay from there. That's why we need that kind of discipline, that kind of unity, that kind of community to try to do it in every way possible. I think people understand that perfectly, and that's why I'm so glad you asked this question. Yeah, there was a much better charge than the first part of the year, especially compared to the time of the flood. We all care about the time of the flood. On the side that we've had a fall because of the non-carbon production, not the production of electricity, and that's always been our GDP lift, as you know. So not only in those 45 municipalities but also wider. As if life had stopped, and since September we've been struggling a lot in July and August to start it, and then since September it's really gone to a lot better, and that's why all our numbers are good, so we're boasting about the rebalancing in which, I don't say - we've broken it up again as you said it right, no, but what we said we're going to break much worse, and now we're going backwards, we're going back to reverse because we haven't spent that much and we haven't had that kind of expenditure, and we've also managed to increase the revenues. We've had how much until today? I mean everything, less than two billion deficits for December. Okay, but certainly minimal. We had a minimal in October, almost no deficit. So, I want to tell you if we could do it next year, and you see that we're taking point by point a lot of these things that we solve these problems and we're going to go with it, to finance large investment works from privatisation revenues, then we're guaranteed the result. Of course, that's all, if all of our dice were to agree, and you've seen that over the past 20 years we haven't been able to agree with all of these big companies, if any part of it we agree on, we're going to get a big result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17250	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. The People's MP Vojislav Vujic has the word, and let the MP Dejan Radenkovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17251	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I would first of all like to say that I am condemning the behavior that we have at one point today, after such a high-quality debate that has been going on for almost 13 hours, we have had one situation that might possibly spoil all of this. I want to tell you that the JS parliamentary group always supports critics because we know that we are critical, but we do not support critics at all. Today you have heard from Mr Dragan Markovic - Palme that the JS parliamentary group will support both the rebalancing and the 2015 budget and a set of accompanying laws. I will try to, like my president, the less I use numbers today, even though we are discussing a budget where there are certainly more numbers than any other law we've ever done. The budget is so wide a topic that it certainly is not surprising that there are many who can praise it and of course there are those who can give criticism to this budget. I first want to commend the budget rebalancing that is in front of us today in very short lines because this is one good thing. It's good because, first of all, you as a government have managed to save 50 billion in a short time and that's what we need to talk about and that's what every citizen of Serbia needs to get to. This particular savings should also be the potential this budget, this reform budget, this is the first reform budget from the beginning to the end, which, in addition to these savings and rational spending, also has a plan to boost investment production. It is the only time Serbia is going towards some economic stability and financial consolidation. Most of these savings will certainly be used to pay some of the old debts that this government did not make, and what citizens need to know is that they are a component of these debts, debts to people who had an official obligation to defend certain citizens in courts, to settle these and subsidies in agriculture from earlier years that relate to the payment of the regress for fuel and fertilizer and various incentives for plant production, insurance premiums and incentives for breeding throats. It certainly means this to ordinary citizens. We have taken a great burden all together one great responsibility with restrictive austerity measures but here you can see that the very savings we have already made resulted in the first 50 billion. It is specifically used and is returning to the good work again for the citizens of Serbia. I can only express one little personal dissatisfaction with the new budget, which is when the question is the position of subsidies for tourism because it's record small, but as I understand the finance minister today, we can't look at each individual position like this and interpret it because this is one complex thing, a complete budget. What I can take advantage of today of the opportunity to ask the prime minister, to ask you for the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry, is exactly what we've all talked about today, which is the privatisation of 500 companies in restructuring. I come from Vrnjačka Banja, a tourist resort and you are aware that there is going to be a privatisation of HTP "Fontana". Unfortunately, in some previous governments, we had a situation that certain ministers advocated privatisation in such a way that companies should buy those who do not have money but have knowledge, they bring "knou hauver". All of us who live in places that literally depend on such companies as well as HTP "Fontana" is the "silver" of Serbia's most beautiful tourist site, we disagreed. We have a different situation today. It has already been shown that a large number of interested persons have applied for the purchase of this large tourist complex, and I ask you that if possible, we help these people to do their job as easily as possible, that is their purpose for which they have prepared the money, which is investment in Vrnjačka Banja. If we've already had, let's say, small, I can't say the damage, but if we had one shortfall in those subsidies that weren't laundry of 1.2% I'm asking you to help us determine this privatisation in the right way and I believe it will be the biggest investment in tourism in Serbia in 2015. We talked about jobs today. Jobs and when opened in a few hundred are serious stories and serious investments today. By saving this large tourist complex, one city, a tourist town of 30,000 people would certainly be much more quality and work and live. No one even bid today when we talk about all the privatisations of how much that figure will be. You have made a very responsible approach to this work, and that is another commendation. As I have interpreted today as I read the budget I see that depending on these revenues as far as they come, we need to reduce the credit sources and emissions of state charters from values on the domestic international market. That someone criticises the size of this budget that is here today in front of us, should actually be commendable, first of all, to you, who have worked on this budget, because in this budget everything is transparent. It may take a little bit more time and desire, first of all, to make a dent and look at it, but it's so transparent, and I mean, for the first time, there's so many indicators in the budget that we can very easily watch transparently watch the budget in different positions come true, which is good. It gives us time to react, and in any case, to the opposition who should keep an eye on what's going on in the realisation of the 2015 budget, and it's easier and easier to do the job. Of course, as the prime minister just said, it may not sound nice right now, but it's very practical, first of all, for the citizens, I want you to have as many budget rebalances as possible in 2015 as the one we're doing today with the savings that we've shown in the figures of 50 billion dinars. What we in the JS support this budget is that you remain consistent with those promises made to citizens at the beginning of this mandate, it is that the social programme is not drastically reduced, the social programme is increasing and primarily concerns maternity and child isolation. All of us who deal with politics, I think that's exactly what we see in it and that we can help others. This is one of the most concrete ways and exactly what might be a bigger problem for Serbia, and from the current situation in which our economy and all the other problems that have caught up with us for a short time, I think this particular problem of Natalie is something that we need to work on the most. I believe in what the Prime Minister said, which is when at some point we stand on our feet and we have concrete things and more tangible in terms of finance that we will certainly put the greatest task ahead of us to fight the white plague. That's what Mr. Prime Minister supports both the rebalance and this budget and everything you've done so far. Given that we have heard good suggestions today, I will remind you, finance ministers, of only one of these proposals, the proposal made by Mr Dragan Markovic Palm, which is that, in addition to opening up the company and bringing investors into the cities, we should all deal with bringing investors into the countryside together. You accepted it as a proposal today. I saw that you specifically responded to Mr Markovic as well, that we will all work together to make sure that this results in certain figures in the next period. I say once again that from all the reasons I've counted, we from JS from our parliamentary group will support both the rebalancing and the 2015 budget and a set of accompanying laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17252	Thank you, Mr. Vujic. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17253	I'm grateful for your suggestions. One clarification from earlier, two important laws that we have not passed, which we have promised the people, are the law on the origin of property and mortgage law, which we will have to do in a short period of time. That's the answer to Mr Djukanovic's question. As for subsidies for tourism, we see that subsidies are allocated for direct employment in companies that have a good future, significant exports, a secure market. So, we're not in a situation where we take from people in the public sector or in pensioners, to waste ourselves on subsidies in any way. So our people always say – they need subsidies. But when you say you need subsidies, I know you do, but for the people of Serbia to know that, that means we have to take someone else. So in order to give someone a grant to someone else, you have to take it. Who should we take? We're out, and when Verbic speaks for education, his budget is 96% paid. Then they say something's going down somewhere. It's got to be crumbling into that 4%. It's simple, if I could just have your attention, please? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: "Silence there." )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17254	Please, Miss Jerkov, let me...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17255	I really don't have a comment on your words, but it's okay, compared to that "stoko one", so, thank you, I'm honored. As for HTTP "Fontane", there are seven companies that have reported, as you know. Some are interested in the strategic partnership, others for different privatisation models, selling capital and selling assets, but we will see to it that we resolve it in the fastest possible way, because it is in our best interest to introduce private owners as soon as possible so that we can charge taxes and any other fiscal burdens and disburse our own country as much as possible. As far as the white plague is concerned, it's usually what people say -- when we don't have enough money and we can't guarantee our children, I want to tell you that the greatest natural growth in our country, among the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, is, for example, in settlements like Klokot, Ranilug, Gracanica, Strpce, which I won't say exactly that they live the best and hardly that they are the richest. Sweden is hardly the poorest one, which is a very negative natural growth, i.e. a higher mortality rate than Natalie's. There are some other things that we didn't want to talk about or were never ready to talk about because we were always ready to accept just our theory of moaning in which we all participated, I first and everyone else, and you can see it through an interesting study that I looked at two days ago. Every time at the end of each year, over 80% of people assured themselves and everyone else that it was worse than the previous year, which isn't really true, which isn't really true, but that says something about our temperament, our mentality and our negative approach to everything. We became a bit selfish even though we find it hard to admit it to ourselves and poorer people have more and more children and care more about it than we do who are average or above average or richer. It seems to me that something worse is talking about us and much better about those who are poorer than us. In any case, all the state measures we can take since mid-2015, but especially since 2016, the measures we can take to reduce the loss of a Vrsec that we have each year in the population, we will be ready to take and accept discussions with all political factors to find the best solutions. As important as that tale of consciousness and habit is, you have a real reduction in aggregate demand. Did you know that all trade chains have growth compared to December last year, everyone, here I am now informing you. So from Delez, I'm talking about the biggest ones, they all have growth. They have growth because there is this psychology in people who have seen that we are entering calm waters in 2016 anyway, not because Vucic says it, not because the Serbian government says it, but because it is said by international factors in which people have confidence and happiness is spent more money and that is what enables us to increase the collection and VAT, which allows us better numbers than we expected, because that was a surprise for us too. From where? Because people felt safe, felt the kind of confidence we talked about, and how we usually say that, somewhere in our stockings for the old days, decided to make up for all the things we needed for 2015, the ones that have. Of course, I have a lot of poor women who don't have it, but in total numbers in total, it's more than it was before. I think that if we can get these things started for tourism because it's a branch of the future, that entire territorial sector of our economy, that's the branch of the future, that's why we work so hard in Belgrade on water, that's why we're going to work with Europeans on the development of the Danube, that's why Stara Plan and Kopalnik and Zlatibor and Tara are important to us, because in the future we're going to make a lot more money and a lot more beds and we're going to rent and charge in all our tourist places than we did before. So I'm pleased that in Vrnjačka Banja, if this beautiful city were ours, it would get a new color and new facades and I'd say some kind of new life, because when you change the face of five or six hotels in Vrnjačka Banja, then it's a huge thing, then the promenades are even nicer and we'll make more money as a state. I can't wait for that, but I'd like to have as many private initiatives as possible to invest that money, people who want to earn that money, not that we have to help the subsidies. If we can do without subsidies, that's good, if we can't, let's help, but let's look to encourage that private sector to do this job as best as possible. Thank you again for supporting the budget, both you and your president.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17256	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17257	Thank you, Vice President Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and People's MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister and the Honorable Minister, are ahead of us, as we all had the opportunity to hear in the day-to-day debate, the 2015 budget and other technical rebalancing for the previous year. To start with this second one, which today was the subject of various manipulations. What's this about? This is about technical rebalancing, and it's not about the inability to plan public finances, it's about a technical operation that we show that we're not hiding anything, and we have no reason to try to hide some of the items that were below the line. I can only say that Serbian budgeting is going towards good practice in EU countries. In the second rebalancing, there are no new costs. I feel free to say that one household business is being shown, the management of state finances, and it connects with the relevant sources of finance, or places of cost, where we should put them. The budget for 2015 is almost identical at the level of expenditure and income as well as the 2014 budget. Everything that happened to us in 2014 and what will follow us in 2015 is considered a temptation to continue working on the recovery of public finances. The question is, could anything else have happened to us since everything that happened to us this year and years ago? Floods that happen once in a hundred years, not to mention the conflict between the two great forces, where we found ourselves between and where we simply didn't want to settle on either side, which brought pressure to import goods from the EU and to reduce the export of goods to Russia. Not to mention the consequences of irresponsible, burassing banking, which, both guilty and indemnity, came to us and came to us for payment. If someone thinks this doesn't reflect on the budget and the economic costs, firstly, it's malignancy, and I can say freely that it's reckless. The real question is – what will be the challenges that await us in 2015? Budget revenues are realistically estimated. Of course, we will have changes in income from public enterprises and agencies, which will be overrated if exactly what we intend to do in 2015. So we have to essentially improve the management of public enterprises. It's our main task next year, as far as I could understand. The spending side shows that we have decided on realistic savings, not wanting to erase the basic needs of people, our people in Serbia, with some very positive steps, such as the reduction of subsidies, but, in that part, the biggest challenge will again be for public enterprises. In order to talk today about whether the budget is realistic it is necessary, in addition to assessing revenue and expenditure, to take account of inflation levels, economic growth, course movements and the relevant financial environment. In the following year, inflation is expected to range from 2.5% to 5.5%, which is in line with the budget's objectives. In today's circumstances, this goal is realistic and expected. The estimated economic growth next year will be around 1%, according to IMF estimates. It is possible that this assessment will be optimistic because we have a lot of work to do in creating a good business environment in 2016 and 2017, which may have to be paid through a low growth rate in 2015. But still, our opinion is that one percent projection is available. The budget rate is a very important item, precisely because of the repayment of loans expressed in foreign currencies. The Fiscal Council's assessment, when it comes to the budget, cited one example that only by weakening the rate by one dinar compared to the euro could increase the exchange rate of one billion dinar. So we have to note that interest is over an eighth of the total expenditure side of the budget, which is more than we give for social protection. And I have to say that many loans have a variable interest rate, so moving on the international market can have a significant impact on the price at which we pay off the debts, or refinance them. Dear MPs, we have a lot of challenges ahead of us. We will answer the challenge in the right way. The reforms the government is taking are clear to have no alternative. The projected revenues can act as somewhat optimistic at first sight, but this is the case when it is analysed more deeply. Tax revenues are very conservatively adjusted, and when this inflation is used, from 2.5% to 5.5%, and the rate of growth of the social product of 1%, of course, is expected to grow from excise duties. It is very realistic and projected for those who know that it is a degree of commitment to the smuggling of oil is reduced to zero value, and that similar effects are achieved on tobacco. The successes in oil in 2014 give us the basis to believe that 2015 will mean the end of the gray oil derivative market and the start of serious introduction of order on the tobacco market. There are considerable skeptics in the assessment of the profits of public enterprises, which are projected twice as high in this budget compared to 2014. This assessment is the degree of our security that the necessary reforms are expected to be carried out in the business of public enterprises. I think we should all believe that. We'll see who's right very soon. It's inevitability. Total budget expenditures are lower by six billion dinars. Costs for employees and purchases of goods and services have been reduced. Subsidies are less by a sixth, and subsidies go by about 25%. This is a very clear indication that it will put an end to restructuring and without the whole process being carried out in an insensitive way. The state will withdraw from the economy, but not by leaving the desolation, because it's not politics or the SPS or the SNS. The budget is, of course, our test for next year whether we will find the formula for unity and that most in this country support reforms in a very concrete way, and that these reforms will be directed and dosed in the right way. Therefore, the reduction of subsidies we have is realistically and proportionate to our desire to turn the Serbian ship into a quiet port for the next two years. Many wonder whether the current majority will be able to resist the pressures of non-reforming groups. I can freely say that the answer is yes, because we simply have no choice as responsible people sitting in this majority. A reduction in pension funds transfer is a computer operation due to a change in the amount of contributions for PIO, which has increased from 24% to 26%. The effect has also been increased by reducing pensions of more than 25,000 dinars. The deficit of the PIO Fund, i.e. the amount of funds allocated from the republican budget for regular pension payments, is still higher than the total budget deficit, but these are the first steps towards setting the PIO Fund on a healthy basis. This is a problem that has been real for decades and is not easily solved and we may not be able to solve it in this mandate, as well as for the mandate of some other majority, but as I can see, it is very certain that the next majority will be similar in this composition. If we can see that the PIO Fund has achieved success, then the Republic Health Insurance Fund, where we have an increase in transfers, is facing major changes in order to achieve enough savings that will not reduce the availability of medical services and the quality of health care. It's gonna be tough, but that's not what you're talking about, but that's what it's all about. The challenges await us, as I have already said, and when there are expenses for public enterprises. Some of these companies are used to subsidies. Because of their poor business, which is mainly due to some of the roles that these companies play. Much of these companies do not serve to generate profits, but to preserve social peace. What we heard today, the economy minister said is the biggest problem of business and "Serbiagas", EPS, The Railways of Serbia and Zelizara Smederevo, in addition to subsidies, there is a guarantee issue, which was often the case with "Srbigas". The draft budget envisions issuing a 681m-euro guarantee, some of which will become a country's commitment. Here we need to answer the question of what we want from these companies and I don't think we have any dilemma. We need to reform them by understanding why some of them generate losses and that it is not the result of poor governance, but of imposing some tasks that are not typical of such companies. We will have a challenge to resolve the issue of Jelizara Smederevo, and we heard today that this will happen in 2015, as already announced. I think that's going to be the positive effects we're expecting. So at the expense, we will show our resolve and ability to be responsible and credible. Otherwise, we don't deserve to be where we are. In the end, I'd say, dear colleagues and colleagues, this is the historic budget, because it's everything. There's nothing hidden. Our decision is to make everything visible. Our decision is to collect revenue that will not choke the initiative of our privates and our determination is to address the most difficult issues regarding budget expenditures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17258	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17259	To thank you for your discussion and to say that you're right when you talk about public enterprises. It was both a concern and a fiscal council of the IMF, first of all, whether we overestimated the revenues we can collect from public enterprises, but right away, to tell you that we had already managed to secure it, that we knew in advance what it was that the public company was going to pay us. That money already exists, it's not something we have to wait for and that will depend on their next activity. What is the biggest activity, about 60m euros, will now lie with us from the Serbia Power Network. I think we're also around Telekom about 25m euros, and it'll probably be another six million, if I'm not mistaken for Sertic, about 600m dinars, which will say fivem euros, means about 30m euros in Telekom. I'm talking about the biggest. There are also the Post of Serbia and that money is already provided and we are waiting for it in the budget, i.e. in the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia. As far as that goes, there's no fear. What we both have concerns about, and each and every one of us, is whether we will be able to essentially reform these public enterprises so that it can make that kind of contribution or a greater contribution in 2016. Because I'm fed up with 24 hours and 48 hours, we have to look at two, three, five and 10 years ahead. Accordingly, we will also be changing people who are in those positions, because to be honest, I am not satisfied with the good work that public enterprises are doing for us, as the state banks were not happy with how they work, and that is why we have paid a high price for public service, thieving, crime, corruption and everything else. As far as inflation is concerned, it always has its good and bad sides. On the one hand, you reduce the fiscal deficit, on the other hand, increase your commitments. It is our responsibility to maintain stability, but how right you are when you talk about another topic, which I would like to tell the citizens of Serbia that I am far more concerned with the weight of the reforms that we need to implement and the quality of life we are going to have, first of all in 2016 and 2017, is this foreign political situation. In fact, the dramatic fall in laundry only in one day has brought down a dinar of 0.7-0.8% in one day, because suddenly everyone in Eastern Europe has been given a warrant from their Western headquarters to withdraw money to South Africa and some other countries. So, neither guilty nor debtor, we were killed in one day. And Jorgenka fought and fought the Serbian government and somehow we managed to contain it and keep it at the lowest level of our national currency's decline at that point. Now, as you can see, it has managed to stabilize with, of course, an arrangement with the IMF and fiscal consolidation measures and everything else. But we don't live alone in the world. Everything that's happening around us affects us. I have a terrible fear. That's why I was amazed at those who called for Ukrainian instability in Serbia in the election campaign. So I marveled at those who count on any instability, those who rejoice that there might be some kind of riot and unrest, because that's why our country is losing. I am sure that many people in this country, whether they like it or not, want and love the success of their country, not the failure of their country. So we have to preserve stability both in the country and in the region, and, if I may say so, it's impossible for us to get out of these great forces' problems, but not to be someone who's going to be smart, to solve all the world's problems and try to leave us as far away from the hotspot of their problems and their torments. Today, I will apologize to you, since I began to torture from fatigue, and not from anything else, since it is not my custom, I will ask you to come out after this presentation because tomorrow morning I have a difficult and difficult day, and the ministers will remain here and I will trust more ministers than MPs from individual MPs. We've heard a lot of good things today, a lot of good ideas about how and what would be good for us to improve. Unfortunately, since the criticism we've heard a few, I'd say, good, new ideas, but the criticism wasn't convincing enough or convincing enough. If the argument is critics that we're bringing rebalancing for Er Serbia, all I can say is that it's a shame for someone to say it. If it's someone's criticism that we're bringing it in for "Serbiagas", it's a shame to have someone say it. There is no other word to characterize it, such as more than shame to criticise the rebalancing of the rebalancing and you have not seen whether because of the increased expenditure or because of the reduced expenditure, or because of increased or reduced income, you have requested the adoption of such a type of act. But it also speaks of our partial indifference, unmethodic and underresponsible approach. In the end, if I hadn't forgotten what I said in the day, I can see that some who had been campaigning their whole lives against the party that I'm leading against and against me personally and against the President of the Republic have enjoyed many of my statements today, where I said I would resign when I was 26%. I just want to let the public know that they've never dedicated the whole side to those who haven't thought to resign by 6%, ever. It never occurred to them to ask those who were once idols, and they had 10%. I repeat once again, it is good to rejoice with 26%, I will certainly not be Prime Minister and I will allow someone else, the Serbian Prime Minister, but it is also quite certain that I will not be a burden to the foreigners I lead, so the party will choose someone better for that place. I think that's how honest, responsible and serious people behave. Making people love you doesn't work. If people think you're doing bad work, leave it to someone whose work they'll respect, and it's possible that Serbs and it's possible that Serbian citizens want to cheat on them and that someone's telling them nonsense about how tomorrow they're going to raise their salaries and pensions, as they shared loans from various development banks and everything else and never again entered that bank. (The People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov throws out of place. Don't throw it at me. This is 20 times today that you threw me. The lessons of decency do not exist in the National Assembly, but it would be good to have someone bring you back and try to explain to you what the basic respect of the conversators means and what elemental decency means. Once again, I would like to thank all of you who supported the budget, to thank all of you who did not support the budget, who had good, extraordinary ideas to improve this act. This one idea, I haven't forgotten it, about energy efficiency and investment in our construction industry. We'll definitely talk about this idea next year and how to talk about it, and I think we'll have some money to invest in these big projects. I am grateful to the citizens of Serbia, after all, which seems to me very well understood what we are doing, that they have confidence in their government, and the second that trust goes away, I believe that some others will come, but today I tell you – you will see, none of this will change, but they will say that they regret something else and that they are satisfied with what we have done. That, you'll agree, is not small, but a big thing that we'll all be proud of anyway. Thank you again and excuse me one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17260	I thank the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and I especially thank you for today's contribution to the assembly session. The word is Mr. Milisav Petronijevic, and let Goran Kovacevic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Petronievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17261	President-in-Office, Prime Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will shorten my presentation, given that the SPS's position on the proposed and rebalancing and the budget and the accompanying laws is very clear. I can only confirm that. I'm just gonna stick around for a little while on three questions. One for income and two for expenses. What is the basic feature of this budget? It is that revenues are increased and expenditure is reduced compared to 2014. When it comes to income, I just want to say a few words. Incomes are higher, although taxes do not increase. No tax hike has been planned, although revenues will be cut due to a reduction in wage income mass, as it is lower, social contributions are lower. Therefore, such conditions provide for an increase in income, and the main or main point on which the government will work next year is until this increases, increases or boosts the fight against the grey economy, the fight for higher tax revenues and greater financial discipline. I think this is an important question for two reasons. First, if we consider that the grey economy is almost a third of the national income, how important is it to strengthen that fight and reduce it? On the other hand, it is also very important to note that tax revenues are charged on a larger scale and that financial discipline is strengthened. In Serbia, it almost became normal not to pay taxes, contributions, electricity, transportation, etc. I want to give strong support to the government on this path to curb it. In Serbia, everyone has to pay taxes, everyone has to pay contributions, everyone has to pay taxes, because by paying it we allow them to have health care, to have education, to build schools, hospitals, kindergartens, etc. Finally, a message to Serbian citizens that, given that the government was forced to cut wages and pensions because it forced it, it is very important to send a message to Serbian citizens, there is no one who can not pay taxes without having planes, yachts, etc. That's where the government has to show its determination to the end and I'm giving strong support to the government in that direction. When it comes to spending, we have heard that spending cuts are foreseen despite the debt growth, if I remember correctly, which has entered the spending side. There's a cut in expenditure again. If I'm not mistaken, it's a deviation from one practice that spending increases every year. This is the first time it's been reduced. I just want to point out two things. One thing, a significant reduction certainly is the reduction in the mass of profit, the mass of income and pension funds. The government was forced to do it, not because it wanted to. No one likes to reduce that. Thus, neither did the government, but the government, choosing between popularity and responsibility, chose responsibility to ensure stability for salaries over a long period of time. What I want to draw attention to, in addition to that rate of reduction in the mass of earnings, in addition to the announced rate of reduction in the number of employees, I want to insist on the extent that the government has predicted for this year, it has not been able to do so by the end of the year, but it is the job, which is the pay grade, the pay grade law. I think it has to be done and it needs to be told to the public how big a job it is, important work, hard work. That job has to be done to the end. Why? It provides justice. It's not the people's fault, as the proverb says, what it doesn't, but what it's not. Simply, the fairness of these profits, therefore, for all those who spend the state, public money must be introduced. After all, education and health care, which are not adequate in the profit system, is an opportunity for them to be properly represented through paid classes in the profit system without talking about the Law of Salaries in the state bodies from which they all escaped. That's what the Prime Minister mentioned earlier. I won't. I've spoken ten times before, but now I won't. It doesn't make sense that the prime minister has three, four times the salary of any independent authority. Don't get me wrong. An independent body means that it is independent in its work, in decision-making, but is not independent of the state of Serbia, especially the economic situation in Serbia. What do I mean? Nine hundred coefficients, a few or even a few dozen basics. It's applied differently in different areas. It has to be done to the end and one order should be introduced, as I would say. In the end, I just want to say, what do I think this budget means? This budget, firstly, paints the current situation and announces the future, i.e. the right direction, the way towards the future. Why the present? In such a difficult economic situation, he can do this much and he's real, he's not a list of good wishes, he's real. The government has seen real problems and offered real answers to the issues it has faced. On the other hand, this is the continuation of the consolidation of public finances in the adoption of rebalancing in October of the month, while at the same time starting the three-year financial consolidation. Obviously, a clear direction, a clear government policy in the work concerning the consolidation of public finances. But what do I mean? I want to draw attention when it comes to expenditures, I want to give recognition to the Government on social responsibility when drawing up this budget, as it showed social responsibility in reducing wages by protecting the most vulnerable categories of population and this part of social contributions, if I am not wrong, approximately 144 billion, two more than in 2014 and seven in the previous year. Thus, it shows its attitude toward the most vulnerable categories of the population. And of course as a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I am giving strong support and stressing the issue, but what I think is most important and measures of fiscal policy and reform of the public sector and the reform of the economic environment and the completion of restructuring and improvement of the work of public enterprises are not the goal, it is a means to reach the main goal, to create a basis for an improved economic environment, to create a basis for increasing investment and domestic and foreign businesses, I am equally supportive, I have heard today from the Minister of Economy to prepare a law on investment in Serbia, and this is an opportunity to resolve in this way, and what all this means is, in fact, new employment, this means creating a basis for stable and unsustainable growth in the coming years. See, that leads to a bigger gross social product. When the gross social product is bigger, then, of course, the participation of our debt is less. Our debt has a high percentage, among other things, because we have a small social product. By increasing him, that percentage is shrinking. When it is bigger, higher taxes are higher, because people are employed, pay taxes and contributions. When higher taxes and contributions are made, there is greater isolation, an opportunity for education, for health care, for all other public needs of this country. Of course, the main thing is to strengthen the economy, destroyed by robbery privatisation and the wrong concept of the economic system in the previous period, and that means the economy is the only one making money. We have many in Serbia who spend and very few who make. So that's the main goal. Everything else, these measures, is just a means to reach that goal. I want to give full support to the government on that clear goal, and the main goal is to say I have a higher standard, but on realistic grounds. In the end, I'll end up with one sentence. It's necessary to keep an eye on this maltene budget for a month and react quickly if there's a deviation. Secondly, the prime minister left, but give him a message of all the battles that have already been opened, he opened another of the most important, it's a battle for faith in Serbia, a battle for citizens to believe in this, then success is certain. We will support the draft budget and all other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17262	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word has a minister in the government, Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17263	Just to thank MP Petronijevic for his comments on the Law of Salaries in the Public Administration which is being prepared, that he is necessary, and I would just like to confirm to him that we are preparing him with the greatest pawnage, that we are not giving up on this trip and that when the draft of this law appears in public somewhere, probably at the end of the first quarter of next year, it will be in record time, given how much work and how long it took for such work and making laws in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17264	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. The word has a folk emissary, Marjana Maraš. Here you go, Mrs. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17265	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the Government with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us today, among others, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. At the very beginning, I would primarily like to express my satisfaction that the rebalancing will pay off all remaining subsidies from earlier years, which relate to the payment of regresses for fuel and fertilisers, incentives for plant production, premium insurance and incentives for throat fertilisation. The amendments and additions to the Encouragement Act result from the need to improve the basic elements of agricultural policy and rural development policy, in line with changes in the economic and market environment. The amendment of the Law puts the focus of agricultural land that uses up to 20 hectares of farmland, which represents the most numerous category of land, while at the same time making up the backbone of the agricultural policy of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, it continues to support small agricultural holdings, while large agricultural producers are focusing on using EU pre-accession funds. The agricultural area of up to 100 hectares that has been available so far for direct payments incentives is exempt by law from those incentives for more than 20 hectares. Also, the right to exercise incentives on the same basis excludes the areas of agricultural land taken into consideration, i.e. for use. The largest number of agricultural holdings that are registered in the register has a surface area of between three and five hectares, the total number of agricultural holdings located in a group of up to 20 hectares amounting to over 300 holdings, and they form the backbone of the agricultural policy of the Republic of Serbia. By directing financial support, it will influence it to become economically stronger and more competitive in time to prepare for changes that come with EU accession. The change of target group up to 20 hectares achieves a fairer distribution of budget funds. This system measure is aimed at solving imbalances in the subsidisation of plant and livestock production and, in this way, the two sectors are partly balanced. The proposed amendments to the Encouragement Act are the result of the allocation of huge assets from the agrarian budget for subsidising areas of up to 100 hectares, with the results of these measures missing. It was expected that the incentives for military production would have an effect on the development and improvement of livestock. The current subsidy system unfortunately has not reached its target. All other measures of agrarian policy remain the same, including milk premiums, and new measures are introduced to encourage the development of livestock farming, which relate to the introduction into the incentive system for quality breeding cows. The amount of incentive is a minimum of 20,000 dinars per throat. In the case of incentivising agents related to the tow of the throat, the amount of incentives for the tow of the yard is defined at a minimum amount of 1,000 dinars per throat per tow, if the throat is intended for the production of the change in the given slaughterhouse, or intended for export. Incentives to such heroic changes refer to the condition of incentives to be made after the handover of throats to slaughterhouses, or after export. In the part of the incentive for suckler cows, in addition to pure races, mollusks of their race are added. The bottom line is that in the context of the austerity and rational spending measures, it stimulates the development of livestock, while small producers with possessions of up to 20 hectares are protected, with no state land being leased. A particular emphasis in this law has also been placed on producers of products bearing a geographical indication and certified organic production, given that this law provides for the introduction of support for these categories of producers under the incentives for rural development measures. Given all these reasons, as well as the measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection to encourage the development of agriculture in Serbia in all ways, the Socialist Party of Serbia will support the adoption of the law proposal in the Day of Voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17266	Thank you, Miss Marash. The Socialist Party of Serbia has no more time. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17267	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the government, we are entering the 15th hour of today's debate, and I will make a real effort not to be even engrossed and not to repeat myself. Because it's been a pleasure, this is the third or fourth time I've worked on the budget. For the first time, the entire government was here and you gave quality and valid answers to all the questions asked. I would only repeat the words of the esteemed colleague Arsenovic, who heard -- he heard who understood -- he understood, and who won't -- not in the next 15 hours. In order to speak a little plastically about the draft budget, I will be a local patriot and commentary of the Ministry of Economy – 95 million dinars in the name of court costs due to poorly privatised enterprises. Among these companies is the "Magnochrom" from the Kingdom, which we know very well that in the privatisation process was destroyed, a tunnel furnace was cut, 70% of the capacity was cut, and these same capacities were sold through old iron installed in Kosovo and Metohija. After such a successful, after such good privatisation, this budget and this government of the Republic of Serbia will have to pay even the judicial costs to the Indians that the Prime Minister mentioned at the beginning of his presentation. That this government is also referring to the social part of the budget relating to urban regeneration, namely the recovery of one part of the city of Kings after a catastrophic earthquake after four full years. The draft budget includes eightm euros and works on the vital project for the town of Kraljevo will be launched in early 2015. I hope, with this I will end up, that even in that section where 111 entities are, or projects from the National Investment Plan, they will find and be safe, and I think the minister knows that, and the Institute of Public Health and the third stage of the completion of the facility that was also destroyed in a catastrophic earthquake. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17268	Thank you, Mr. Bojanic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17269	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, it is unfortunate that we have 12 points united with a budget that is the roof law of each government, but it is obvious that most can impose such circumstances. What do we do, do under these conditions that we're forced to do? In order to know what circumstances the state is both citizens of Serbia and society as a whole, we need to analyse the situation we have been in for several years. So, the situation is that we have the historic largest debt of 22 billion and 700 million, or a little more, we have a record-high rate of the euro, the economy of Serbia is in recession in the last three quarters, we have a decline in production, a fall in the construction industry that is huge, we have a stagnation of exports and we have a decline in foreign investment. I remind you that Serbia has never had as high taxes as it has today, from 18% to 20%. Finally, we cut wages and pensions, which take us somewhere to some African standard. I can hardly imagine that Serbia can go to the EU with an African standard. At the same time, we have a student lawyer who, as Minister of Finance and trust, needs to worry about the rest of the ministers, because I'm sure a certain part of the business activity isn't working precisely because of that strike. Not to talk about other strikes, mostly enlightening, etc. In the course of this debate, we will have the opportunity to try to fix this budget with amendments. I say we try to fix it, because we think the budget is really bad. It is particularly bad if we look at what you are as finance minister, and until almost prime minister, you are talking about what the total income should be and what you consider revenue. I think it is important for the citizens of Serbia to know that this budget reduces agricultural isolation by almost 38%. This is not a criticism of the Minister of Agriculture. I think you, as well as all the other ministers, have insisted that the budget does not fall, but it is a fact. The economy in Serbia is in a very bad state. We boasted these days that we doubled the exports of agricultural products to Russia. Instead of investing right in that branch, unfortunately, it's shrinking. What is surprising to us and what the prime minister tried to explain, unfortunately unqualityly, is that in the debate it is mentioned that, let's say, the government of Vojvodina is spending 109 million on travel. With your budget proposed in item 422, the total allocation for the travel costs of all ministries is six billion and 352 million dinars, about 55m euros. But that's not all, we have in item 423 total separation for services per contract. Please explain to the citizens of Serbia and MPs what services are under contract, to which the citizens of Serbia, i.e. the budget should allocate 135m euros, i.e. 16373,692,000 dinars. If we say that for an annual increase, that is to say, maintaining the salary of an enlightener needs 25m euros, tell us who draws this kind of money, if you have more employees in the government than you should? On the other hand, it has been discussed on several occasions that we have very high and positive results on employment in Serbia, i.e. on reducing unemployment. Well, I wonder if you as finance minister, or your colleagues, see that the prime minister doesn't read it, follow the National Bank of Serbia bulletin? Did you have the opportunity to employ a million and 733 thousand people in Serbia, in May of this year and 697 thousand people, which translates 40,000 fewer employees in May this year; the unemployed 763 thousand in May 2012, and 779 thousand in May this year, which is 40,000 more unemployed? Then what did the National Bank of Serbia do? The National Bank of Serbia changed the way, i.e. the methodology of calculating the unemployed, i.e. employees and virtually employed people for whom we do not know where they are employed. So, Mr. Minister, I think you're a serious man, we've had multiple discussions here. I wish the camera could increase this, these numbers, but I call on all citizens who have the internet to enter the NBS site and see if the ministers and prime ministers are telling the truth or the NBS aren't telling the truth. It is simply things that are like this and the fact is that in Serbia today, there is much worse living than just two years ago. What is even worse, is that the prime minister has been trying to convince us that Serbian citizens with this budget and these decisions that have been made over the past three months have been through the danger clan and that, practically, we are moving towards one improvement as of 2015, that budget revenues will be higher, that citizens will be happier, etc. That thing doesn't stand. The crisis is only now entering the public. A reduction in pensions and salaries will result in a reduction in VAT revenues, a reduction in demand, a reduction in production, and will eventually be paid again by that Serbian farmer who produces vegetables and who hopes that the pensioner, as so far, will be able to buy his products. Simply, what is here today in the "prine time" means, at the time when citizens look at it, it is not a reflection of the real situation in Serbia, nor is it a reflection of the real state of our economy, nor is it a reflection of the real situation in terms of the optimism that you express. I understand that there is excess energy for those who need to convince the citizens of Serbia that due to some bad times, you are not living better today, but that thing is over. Please finally take responsibility for your work. Please report on your work, not on the work of previous governments that have not existed for nearly three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17270	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, as an authorised representative. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: "How does he now have a word?" ) Just a moment, let's see the order of MPs, as authorised representative Veroljub Arsic has the right to reply Mr. Sutanovac, please don't, you have two warnings, don't throw them out of place and disturb the work of the National Assembly. [[Dear Sutanovac, from the place: What replica? I didn't mention anyone?]] I know it's your manners, but don't do it tonight. Please one more time. Mr Arsic, Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17271	I thank the chairman. Since you mentioned agriculture several times, subsidies in agriculture, I would say once again for the sake of the public and for the sake of the truth – it is true, exports of agricultural and food products to Russia have been increased. This is the result of the persistent and strenuous work of the ministry and our competent services to bring the certificates into line, it has been increased, but it has not reached the level we want to achieve. We will work to make it even bigger next year and reach 500m euros. When it comes to subsidies, you say they will be reduced by 39%. I don't know how you got that number. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: from the budget. ) Budget. The Ministry of Agriculture's budget and environmental protection is 5% as it has been so far, 5% of something is 5%. Now that we're not going into math and too much statistics, we've only changed the law in the part of subsidizing plant production. So instead of 100 we're going to subsidize in the next period in the next 20 ha years. This is about 5% of the agricultural holdings that even appear for subsidies and which use subsidies. 94.4% or 310,000 owners are not subject to amendments to the law and will not feel this reduction in subsidies at all at our ministry. So, they will have the opportunity to use everything as they have so far, all the measures of agrarian policy even introduce two new measures as an incentive in livestock. Of course, it should be clear to everyone that no minister wants to have a smaller budget, because we all want it to be bigger, but we have to face reality. Agriculture in this situation now got what it could get. I am grateful to Minister Vujovic, the Ministry of Finance and to all ministers who have enabled us to pay off the delays, debts that we have passed on many years ago. You know, every year four billion, care of the year five billion. We saved up, and we used that money, we're gonna pay for everything that's come for payment, and we're gonna get clean in the new year. We are not happy, but we simply share fate with other citizens of the Serbian state. I'm undermining again, 310,000 landlords, 94.4% won't feel any of what you said. I answered, it's late, it's that I've said all this over and over again, but you just said some number, some number 39%, and it doesn't stay that way in public. Don't make me afraid of farmers and think your data is correct. That's all she answered for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17272	Thank you. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: They sleep. Can I do the replica now? ) Mr. Sutanovac, please, since we have several ministers registered, we'll see if you've got a chance to replicate. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17273	I wanted, since it's not a "prime time" that even though these people are watching that they can hear something that we talked about today, First of all, travel expenses. The travel expenses mentioned in all positions in item 422 in all ministries, e.g. and travel costs for transporting children, transporting children to schools, cross-city transport, including the costs for transporting police officers who work, and you know you were Minister of Defence, Ministry of Defence for the Transport of Soldiers, etc. That's why these numbers are so big, because it's a huge number of people, it's hundreds of thousands of people. Of course, all the inspections, all the state organs of that guy. Very little money for the government, for the very members of the government. So you can see that by your positions. Another thing about the employees here is repeatedly said and I don't think it's bad to mention it because there's confusion when different criteria start to compare, when different institutions give different data. It can really create confusion in people. The NBS, however, has one narrow spectrum of showing employees indefinitely. The only one who can give data properly is the RFZO. So those who pay for health insurance based on work enter the criteria of the Department of Statistics relating to employees, i.e. unemployed, and so it has always been. According to data for April 2012, the unemployment rate was 25.5%. Last quarter of 2014 17.6%. Irrefutable data. The number of employees increased significantly. One part of the people, and thanks to the labour ministry's measures, or the government of Serbia, one part of the people who worked in the gray zone, in the sector that received the money was transferred to regular flows and thus increased part of the employees, one part of the new employees. Ponović, Fresenius Medical Care in Vrsac, PKC Varing System in Smederev, “Calcedonija” in Apatino, Adriana. tex in Ruma, LEONI WIRING SYSTEMS in Doljevac, "Geoks" in Vranja, Everest Production in Ruma, Balkan BIBL in Jagodina, "Svarovski" in Subotica, Centre for Seed Development in Vienna and "Henkel" in Kruševec, "Jins" in Leskovec, etc. They're new companies that are open. I'm only talking about those who've opened up new power plants in this period. So, as for this irrefutable data, there has been a reduction in unemployment. Are we super happy and happy and said we don't need any more? Of course not. We think that we should work on this together more, but these are good indicators that have been going on for eight months in a row, and what hasn't happened before has shown a constant trend in the decline of unemployment. Which is good for this country. Are we satisfied that the wages are no longer? I wish there were bigger salaries, but simply, the economic moment for the country is such that it's a good thing we're working on increasing employment and the healthier it is now. People need to know, people are no longer mass employed in the public sector. We now have much greater employment in the private sector, which is only sustainable and only healthy. So, I expect that we will continue in the following year this trend, that we will also take good measures supported by the IMF, and the IMF you know that it is quite rigorous and rigid when it comes to all estimates, which Mr Vujovic can say a lot more about than I do, which says that these measures that the government is taking are good and will lead to growth, that will lead to recovery of the economy. I expect that this will be a good message to new investors who, in fact, will continue to invest in Serbia next year, although I expect, to say, a difficult year on the economic level in the territory of the whole of Europe, to say, therefore, not only for our country and that this will lead to new employment of people. What's done so far, I think it's a very good indicator, and I think this whole month will be December, where we don't have a reduction in aggregate demand. We have a record, as the prime minister said, record VAT payment when compared to December 2013, a record charge which, if it continues like this, will be, so maybe we can say over 42 billion, over four billion in VAT. Now, we're going to see that at the end of this month, of course, but I expect that we will have one trend, a great trend in growth, and that people in Serbia will be able to see it by the next year, but also in 2015 that it will give good effects on our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17274	I thank Dr Stefanovic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17275	You know, what is now being put here as a fundamental problem is that, as it is possible to believe in the exact same methodology in April 2012, and to deny the exact same methodology in December 2014. Nothing's changed. We changed the results, of course, because now we have a larger number of employees. Changed the results in terms of the unemployment rate dropping and changed the results that we have far more people working on different parts but still not believed. You can't trust the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and you can't fool him because you have to pay him. So, it's not even a question of the labour force poll, but you have to pay for the Republic Fund to be accepted as someone who works, as someone who's employed. We have an increase in payments to the PIO fund. That means there are more people who work and our only way in the end line is, and there's nothing else we can do, but increase the insurance ratio compared to the number of employees. It's the only way. I'm just asking you to believe the same methodology you believed in when you were in power, to believe that same methodology now that you're an opposition. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17276	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17277	Thank you. We've done things many times today. For those of our viewers who are still keeping awake next to the screen, I just want to explain a few things. So, the general situation we inherited is well known to everyone. That we have the greatest historical debt we know of. What we're talking about here is that fiscal consolidation needs to reduce deficits to reverse the debt trend as a social product within two years of that fourth quarter of 2016. That's our goal, that's our wish. Therefore, what we agree on probably does not need to be discussed. So that's what we know. We can talk specifically about what factors have produced such a long-term growth in recent years, when it started, Prime Minister Vukic mentioned some figures. We can also do a more complex analysis, a fiscal strategy that will be divided in a few days as soon as the government passes, has a part that refers to trends in debt, forecasting debt and conversion point at 77.5% of the debt in the fourth and at the end of 2016. So that's what we agree that this is our problem, but the whole purpose of the fiscal strategy, the whole purpose of fiscal consolidation, the whole point of adapting to belts, reducing costs is to reduce deficits and indirectly achieve space to reduce debt participation in the social product. Excuse me. So there's no dilemma. A little bit of clarification about the numbers that apply, so-called Four, it's not 42 but 423 if you're referring to the contract, 42, if it's 42, then it's... ( Dragan Sutanovac, from the place: I said 423.) Great, 423 by our numbers here 15.6 billion and that's the figure that applies to so-called. contracts, which are contracts on the part, are contracts of temporary, occasional short-to-permanent jobs, these are contracts, so they are limited by participation in total expenditures up to 10% can also be de facto served for the last two, three years to either engage people who do not want or cannot work in government because they have a permanent job elsewhere, and do not want to leave their job without being permanently needed in the Government. Secondly, these are people who do business, occasional jobs. This year we had one situation that they had asked us questions about how this tremendously increased the number of these so-called so-called. Contractors, it turns out it's a seasonal engagement of people working in anti-urban protection. So these are from these kinds of temporary and occasional jobs, to closing those elements in the structure of employees who are not provided in conditions where we have a natural outflow of people, and we have a limit on employment. As you know, in most ministries, there is a huge gap between systematization and fulfillment, and these contracts allow this difference to be filled, most permanent jobs and it is a very small number of jobs being employed, people, based on the decisions of the Staff Committee and I am now interpreting the application of the rules in practice, these are the decisions of the Staff Committee which has representatives of most ministries and which sees the real needs and provides it. As already mentioned today, we will remain in this policy, because it is one way to control the size of the entire state, and to keep under the control of the costs involved. So there's no dilemma. It's a 15.6 billion figure, and it was bigger last year. Therefore, we are in line with the policy that we have affirmed here, reducing these figures both on the advice and the Fiscal Council and on the advice of the IMF, and on the advice of independent analysts, we did not want to reduce that figure anymore, because this would limit our ability to provide the continuity and quality of people who are needed on a particular species, especially analytical and other jobs, which cannot be provided by the realisation of people, i.e. by taking over people between ministries and individual other bodies. I stress, the issue of unemployment, issues of this kind of detail are not essential issues, these are issues, these are issues, here the application of the strategy happened in the same way as the adjustment of costs, at the level of total employees, at the level of wages and pensions, at the level of total fiscal expenditures. So, I understand your questions, we can look for answers more precisely or less precise, but I would like to be better understood which way this is challenging this budget, and I especially don't understand your assessment that the budget is bad or good. The goal of this budget is clearly said, which is to keep the expenditure under control, and that's why they're lower by 27 billion than in the previous year. The incomes are directed to make them as efficient as possible, which is why they're up 27 billion, and I think it's extremely realistic, and that's the number that I already mentioned once tonight, which is only a few percent above the actual figure in this year. It's 850 billion with December 19th, plus expected fees by the end of the year, plus own revenues that are not expressed in that figure, followed by the Treasury, but expressed in the annual figure. So my claim is that surely within the framework of existing human resources solutions, in the context of existing efficiency, at the current tax rates and the efforts of the tax administration, we will surely achieve income, if there are no extraordinary shocks, as were last year. That's our expectation. As for expenditure, all the elements of expenditure design are real, all the elements of expenditure control are real and I expect that we will be in that range that we predicted in the budget, that the deficit at the level of classically defined revenues and expenditures of the republican budget, without guarantees at 158 billion, and with guarantees, at level 191 billion. As I said, there's nothing changing, I think it's extremely real, extremely real. At what rate we're going to make it happen, I don't know. If there are risks, and if there are so-called risks. as they are called "abside jersey", we are no longer "prime time", but we are "light Night", as they would now say. If there are risks, all risks are on the positive side. We've tried that a few times already. So, we had an agreement with the fund that in designing both the growth rate and the revenue projecting, which are considered a soft measure and in designing expenditure, we always went to the conservative side, that it is very possible that we will achieve it even better. What is very important, and what I think citizens need to know, is that all elements of complementary efficiency, if we make more revenue, these revenues will be available to finance in some other things that we consider necessary. Don't forget that in addition to these things that are in the budget there are things that are extraordinary revenues, which can be greater than those that we put inside, extraordinary non-tax revenues specifically. We don't design them on a higher level, because it's very possible to achieve it. As the prime minister has already said, we have put in extreme conservatively only those revenues of public enterprises we already know, and it is very possible that reforms in key public enterprises are successful in making these actual revenues transfers of public enterprises even greater. Speaking of which, I'm about to answer one question about what happened. revenue to be considered savings. These are those savings in salaries in public enterprises to be transferred to the budget through transfers which, as was done with so-called. Solidarity tax. Therefore, it appears as an element of non-tax revenue. These are de facto, not dividends, but other transfers made from public enterprises. We want to carry out such a check, first to comply with the decisions of the authorities of these companies. Secondly, to be properly transferred to the budget and third, to be something that corresponds to the performances agreed on for public enterprises. Most important of all, that's what we do. The point of all of this is to achieve those goals in the three years we set ourselves. I think that in these objectives, I have not heard today that anyone from a position or opposition has slowed those goals, which is to achieve fiscal sustainability, a smaller deficit that we can endure, a smaller debt in the social product, to address structural problems at the same time, as Mr Sertic said in detail. These problems are very important. Look, it's not a story, these problems are very important because without them you won't get any quality investments and you'll have all these extraordinary expenditures from budgets that are through wages, through strikes, through unpaid bills, through a fall in financial discipline, through MPLs, and everything else. Therefore, if we are dealing with a real economic analysis of this budget, this budget of risk elements that have been linked to enterprises in restructuring is trying to put under control. Like I said, public enterprises are part of part two of the story. Therefore, I think the answer to your question, is that this budget is bad, I think that in a given situation a better budget with greater participation and professions and strategies and structural reforms and short-term reforms could not be made without it being much more painful for both the population and everyone else. Remember the way we defined the cuts in wages and pensions, so they don't touch salaries and pensions below 25 grand. These are salaries that 99% are spent on domestic products and affect the most aggregate demand. Therefore, our approach was to minimise the negative fact of the aggregate demand, to achieve the savings needed, to minimise the costs of all these reforms and to achieve a path that is sustainable on the medium term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17278	Thank you, Mr. Vujovic. The word has been issued by MP Veroljub Arsic, as an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, a two-minute replica. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vujovic, I thank you for a very comprehensive and professional explanation that you gave to my fellow MP of the former regime. But I'm still going to try to give some answers to his questions in a simpler way. Travel costs, always a very sensitive topic, and a colleague as a former minister should know that these are not just travel expenses for children, for inspection services, for the police, but for all employees. Since the majority of the state administration is right in Belgrade, he should have known that of those travel costs, mentioned by him by the vast billions, and his secretary while he was defence minister, she was getting money for stamps. So much for that, so there's no exclusive, there's nothing controversial about it. The NBS site and the employment rate, i.e. unemployment, are not the body involved, nor is the work of that body, the Republic Statistics Office, the same one who was in the same composition and while he was a minister. A famous story about the euro course on 6 April 2012, the euro course was exactly 119 dinars and 80 pairs, exactly 28 months ago. In 28 months, the rate of dinars relative to the euro has changed today by about 2.5 dinars. Please calculate, since you like to do math, how much is a month or a year or a half-year, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17280	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has a People's Messenger according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17281	Mr. Chairman, Article 107 of the National Assembly's dignity, and the dignity of the National Assembly is violated when the grandmothers and frogs are mixed, when compared incomparably, when the miles and square meters are compared, when such things are shown in a purely political struggle. What I would like to point out to you and I have no problem looking at this paragraph 422 and comparing the republican and rural budget, so I would like to invite you, Mr. Chairman, although I see someone throwing it away because it is not appropriate to look at page 52 or page 53 of the 2015 Budget proposal, so look at item 422, which is the travel expenses of the Prime Minister's Office, which is worth 2 million dinars. I also invite you to take a look at the draft budget decision of the AP Vojvodina for 2015, so that you can look at the same item 422 and see that Bojan Pajtic for 2015 as the president of the province's government predicted 15 million and 200 thousand dinar trips for yourself. Let's compare those items that can't be compared here, because this compares the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to the support of citizens, we know how half-and-half is, with the support of those who exercise power in the AP Vojvodina with 6% of the support, raping democracy, but they have attracted 15 million and 200,000 dinars for travel for 2015. So much for savings and so much for the attitude towards state money and money for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17282	Thank you, Mr. Granny. If I had the data I had now, I wouldn't have let it be mentioned in that way. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) I thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, which I did when?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17283	Thank you. Dear Vice President, you have injured Article 103 of Section 1 which says that the word to the MP seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure can be given directly after an injury has been done. After Mr. Sutanovec was presented, we had one five announcements from the minister and one announcement from fellow MPs, so only then would the MP come forward and advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you give him the orderly word. He's not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, he's getting involved here in the debate, replicating. I beg you, you are as tired as we are, sitting here together for 10 hours, your job is to take care of this Rules of Procedure. If you don't have enough strength and concentration, ask one of your colleagues, the vice president, to take the lead. I am asking you to conduct this discussion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Believe me, we're in a very good mood to get involved in this discussion and talk about these things that are being said here by breaking the Rules of Procedure, as was the case a little while ago. I ask you not to do this and to have the same archaic according to this hateful Rules of Procedure brought by the former regime towards MPs and positions and opposition. There's no way an MP can answer the Rules of Procedure and replicate without you saying a single word to that effect. The ruling party's MP can't just say – Replica, that it doesn't even know why it's a replica and that it gets the right to replication. And when direct insults and references to opposition MPs come out, we can't get the right to a replica, not for one second. I ask you, there are a few members you should stick to, stick to them, to bring this discussion to an end, because I too have a great need to say things, so I stick to this Rules of Procedure, sit here and follow the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17284	Time, Mr. Djurishich. I'm surprised, because at this point anyone who asked the opposition for a word, asked for the possibility of a replica, he got it. Here, and at this point I'm trying to give Mr. Sutanovac the right to the replica. Miss Jerkov, you've been throwing all day. I'm amused by what you do. If it's your pleasure, go ahead. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: because you do not give me the word.) I'm trying to give my word now to Mr. Sutanovac from your MP group. I thank you, Mr. Djurisic, for informing me that I caused the breach of the Rules of Procedure in connection with Mr. Sutanovec's discussion. I thought I caused it about Mr. Veroljub Arsic's replica. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: He was talking about grandmothers and frogs.) ) If you now say that I have caused a replica of Mr. Sutanovac's exposure, do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Yes) Mr. Sutanovac, you have a two-minute replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17285	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I have no doubt that you are doing this with all your might and that you are convinced of the correctness of your budget. I'm just saying he's not well structured. Just before you said it wasn't 16 billion, 15.3 billion. Chairman, may I ask you to calm down a few colleagues who have talked about grandmothers and frogs before, and now they can't listen to an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17286	Please, colleagues, since I listen with attention to Mr. Sutanovec, you should do the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17287	Mr. Minister, 15.3 billion, if we're talking about these seasonal workers, it's a cirque of 30,000 monthly salaries. So you're, I believe you're really honest about wanting to change things, but you can't convince me that in Serbia where there are 50,000 extras in the administration, you need to hire 30,000 of them to work on anti-urban protection. That thing doesn't stand. That's where you had to make the cut and cut that spending. Mr. Stefanovic, I would ask him to pay attention only for a short time, as well as Mr. Vulin, when it is said earlier that Bojan Pajtić's 2015 cabinet predicted three million or already as much for the cost of travel, so the cabinet of the Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs – 40 million 569 thousand dinars for travel costs. It doesn't count for helicopters flying to Raska and going to Kosovo. So, Mr. Minister, you left one party army of 30,000 people to suck this budget, and you cut Serbia's military budget by five billion dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17288	Time, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17289	Let me just finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17290	All right, I'm just warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17291	You gave two-and-a-half times more to the office of the minister of emergency money situations than the Serbian Army for emergency situations. You can't possibly convince me it's the right thing to do. Not at all. I ask you to correct it through the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17292	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. It's just that in the discussion I had mentioned, I understood that there were a lot more than one million in Mr. Pitiæ's case. Here you go, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17293	Let me guess one number, so the debate is clear. So what I said was 15.6 billion is at 423, that figure in the previous budget was 18.3. Therefore, it has been significantly reduced. You might be right to do a deeper analysis and see what and how. But there's all the ministries. It is very possible that this item specifically requires deeper analysis and better management, but at the level of the reduction, at the level of the parameters available to us and implemented by budget instructions, we are more than that, i.e. We couldn't reduce 20% of the cuts without jeopardizing the extension of the existing defence contracts. So there's all the so-called. Contracts, in all ministries. Is that good practice, that's another question. As we came to this number, I explained it. We started from last year's number, 18.3 and reduced it to 15.6. I have nothing more to add to that subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17294	Thank you, Mr. Vujovic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Bratislav Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17295	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, another untruth today. At least as a former minister, you've made five budgets, and now you've said that the Ministry of Defence has been reduced five billion, one given to another, and you didn't want to say that for the first time since the Ministry of Defence's budget, the Fund of Defense has been expelled as a special item and has won this year for the first time eight and a half billion. The Department of Defense budget is bigger than last year. Collect the numbers, and you won't count on what my colleagues won't tell you how many professors we have at our Military Academy get through these funds through contracts from other colleges and teach at the Military Academy, how many professors we have at VMA, how many expenses we have for the South Base, how many trips we have abroad and abroad, and we're talking here specifically about one item -- the cabinet of the Prime Minister, which is 2.5 million dinars and the cabinet of the president of the province, which is 15.5 million. Separate those two items and don't look at the consolidated budget for everything the government and all the ministries have. I understand, but unfortunately, the Serbian Army has been reduced only by the 6.5% share this year, how much our salaries have been cut in gross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17296	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17297	So, despite being late and not being seen by a lot of people, that doesn't mean we shouldn't be telling the truth. So, and then you have to say things to the end. Between Bojan Pajtic and my ministry, the difference is in several thousand employees. My ministry is, well, only $15,000. I don't know who he's traveling with for that money. Perhaps you could admit and say that it's money that applies to everything, to every travel expenses, to every stamp for all these people I'm talking about, and plus don't forget that my ministry participates in 35 chapters that are all, unfortunately, being solved in Brussels. So there are no chapters where there are no representatives of the Ministry of Labour, not one. We have to pay for these people every time. Maybe it wouldn't be bad if we said that we were the first ministry to lift its own diaries. We don't pay off our journals. So, we pay only travel expenses, we don't pay the daily bills to people, and when they go to Brussels, we're the only ones who recognize just the cost of one more meal and stamps for the subway, nothing more. And you could have said that, and of course you didn't. So don't compare me to Bojan Pitiæ's office. It is incomparably smaller, it does not participate in any chapter, it does not negotiate anything on behalf of this country, it does not have to send people anywhere to do all of this, and it has an uncomparably higher cost than the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. So, no matter how late it is, it wouldn't be bad for us to stick to the fact that at least we're being kind to each other. I guess you don't think it's a bad idea to take part in the negotiations, I guess you don't think it's a bad thing to pay people's travel expenses, so I don't think you think that's a bad thing, so if you don't think that's a bad thing, then just say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17298	I thank the Word has Mr. Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17299	Thank you. Just now, Mr. Vulin, your ministry is the worst example of money abuse in the case of item 423, which says -- contract services, 1,465,000 dinars are services in your ministry's contract. So there is no Serbian Army along with the police of Serbia, and your travel cost is 40.5 million dinars. The fact that you are breaking the law and not paying the employees of the diaries is an honor to you, because these people will also exercise their right in court, and you will not pay it, but again the citizens of Serbia. It'll come to them as a cost. Mr. Gasic, don't make it look like I'm more concerned about the army than you are. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to read it to you, and it's not a problem, no civilian defense of 10,000,000 dinars, no emergency situation 1000,000 dinars, Minister Velimir Ilic has 26,000,000, and the entire army is 10,100,000 dinars and you're okay with that? You want to tell me about the professors at the University of Defense that I formed? Well, I do, Mr. Shuttle. Mr. Gasic, me, while you were doing television in Krusevec, I did it. Check with the rector...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17300	Mr. Sutanovac, please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17301	... You're really insecure people. Get ready for this session, don't tell empty stories.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17302	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Sometimes I think I'd feel like I was the minister of military today. The word is Mr. Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17303	You know, at this point, I hope they're sleeping, 6,600 boys and girls now sleeping in foster homes. That's a billion dinars. We pay foster care. So the biggest part of this billion you're talking about is that you pay foster families, 6,600 boys and girls now sleep in those families and sleep peacefully because the majority of these billions of dinars are theirs and we haven't cut a single dime to the foster families, not a single dinar. We didn't save on them. We're on our journals.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17304	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Bratislav Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17305	Thank you for building the University of Defense. You should have taken it with you when it was yours. Why would the Serbian Army need money for emergency situations, except for maybe fuel, as it says in that department, because the Ministry of the Set, the Ministry, is that part of the emergency situation there? In addition, we have a special ministry run by Velimir Ilic, which is responsible for resolving the consequences of elementary disasters. So in that part, we only have what we need for fuel and for the preparation of the funds and those boats that you sold, so we didn't have them now, during your term of office. Like this year, the government of the Republic of Serbia is all the costs that the Serbian Army has had to do with the recovery of floods and rescues in the first part, and clearing the ground in the second part and helping on all the sites where we have been, refunding Serbia's military costs in the full amount as we reported all the costs in all our actions. I don't see anything strange about it. Why would I be jealous of the fact that it went most of the way to the Home Secretary or the Minister of Emergency? I don't see what you see wrong here, so you're rebuking that I should maybe fight for more. I am with the budget the Serbian Army received for 2015 too pleased because it is bigger than the budget it had in 2014. See where your SOVO Fund is and how big the SOVO Fund is this year as a separate item, a special item relative to the 2014 budget, and you have that computer in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17306	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17307	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister of the Government, if you follow a direct transmission, everything falls into the water if you implement economic reforms, and on the other hand, there is no democracy in the country. Not that that "all the power in reform" concerned, Mr. Vujovic, only the economy? If on the other hand you do not develop democratic procedures, debates, democratic atmosphere in a central political institution, such as the Serbian Parliament, everything falls into your water. The Serbian government is afraid that citizens will not know what is waiting for them in 2015, and therefore no debate is allowed in the Assembly, which proves that as MPs, the DS has received something just before 01.00 in the morning, neither when it comes to the budget nor when it comes to 11 accompanying laws. The government is panicking them through an emergency procedure and does not allow public or any other debate on them and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is hiding, so it avoids public and any other debate, and today it also said "Transparency of Serbia", which has referred public criticism to the government's account, since the budget has not entered the procedure and in accordance with the Budget System Act, Mr Becic. What is the Government of the Republic of Serbia hiding? One, the Serbian government cannot implement reforms. Reforms include fighting the gray economy, fighting cigarette smuggling and tobacco, fighting tax evasion. The government is unable to implement the necessary reforms that involve restructuring of public enterprises, rationalisation when it comes to public sector employees, but on the other hand employs tens and tens of thousands of party personnel. In the end, the government has no capacity, and this has shown in these three years, which is worth the reforms Serbia and citizens deserve. Despite all this, the government is defined as the easiest and easiest and most devastating for citizens' methods, which is a reduction in public sector wages and a constitutional reduction in pensions, where 350m euros are saved, and where more than 550m euros are thrown into failed public enterprises. Only in Belgrade, which individual MPs sitting here can testify about, although public sector wages have been reduced by 10% on average, Belgrade and the city budget have increased by 1%, which speaks on the one hand or about an increase in earnings or on the other hand of increasing the number of employees despite the ban on public sector employment. Under two, the government hides from citizens and the public that it cannot resolve today's suspension of teaching when it comes to primary and secondary schools across Serbia. The government has no knowledge of finding three billion dinars for educators, and on the other hand, 67 billion dinars throws on "Srbigas", on Railways, JAT, Galenika, on all those companies, Mr Vujovic or Sertic, of whom you expect to make a profit in the Republic of Serbia's budget next year. Under three, the government of the Republic of Serbia hides that poor policy reduces agricultural subsidies by six billion dinars on the one hand. The government is less investing in agriculture, which is Serbia's only development opportunity in this crisis, instead of investing in agriculture, instead of investing in the competitiveness of our agricultural products on the world market to increase exports, the government has no ability to fight and find that money, and on the other hand, 19 billion more on interest because this government has completely irresponsibly committed itself over the past two and a half years for seven billion euros. The government continues to deceive the public and citizens with a story of a better life, and we have been able to hear this several times in the last few days, when it comes to local elections in Mionica and Luciani, and there is no response to economic chaos that will happen to Serbian citizens in 2015 and then in 2016, and then in 2017. You, respected ministers, are in the third year of power. Serbia is in recession. This means that in 2015, citizens will live even worse. Just because Serbia is in recession means that many will lose their jobs in 2015 and that some young people will not be able to get a job and thus bind their future to Serbia. Finally, the result of the three-year-old government, ministers present tonight, headed by Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic, is that in two and a half years 80,000 people have left Serbia. According to the Fiscal Council, the Fiscal Council made very good comments and explanations. Just one unforeseen thing is enough, Mr. Vujovic, to bring down this whole map tower that represents your budget. By the end, you're cutting wages and pensions because you can't carry out reforms. Two, there is no money for education, science, technological development, students, students and students, and on the other hand you throw into failed public enterprises and directors who have tens and tens of thousands of euros in annual incomes. Under three, there's no money for agriculture, and on the other hand there's money for party SNS personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17308	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. I'm not that tired, but I'd think you weren't even here today at the assembly session, since the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, has been giving you reform lessons all day, and you're now saying that the government is unable to implement reforms. I'm surprised. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Don't, Mr. Djurishich. Don't be a DS lawyer every time. Let it be my sin, but do you need to be a DS lawyer every time? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Giurishic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17309	Thank you, Your Honor. I believe you've injured Article 100. A member of the 100th says -- the president of the National Assembly, when chaired by the National Assembly, if he wants to participate in the search, leaves the presidency to one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. Your role when you are sitting here is not to comment on the presentation of MPs, but to give your word for word and take care of this Rules of Procedure. Don't be a government attorney. There are ministers here, there are MPs of the majority, let them be lawyers of the government, not you. If there's anything you want to say, get down from there, pick up the word and say something. That's what this Rules of Procedure obliges you to respect when you sit there. Article 100, if you want to participate in the discussion, as you just got involved, come down here, pick up the word, and say what you have to say. There's enough lawyers here. Government, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17310	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. I was just wondering out loud if... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: don't.) Don't throw it away, Mr. Schutanovac. You've done enough today. I was just wondering if I was too tired in this weather, so I didn't see Mr. Balsha, as I saw him during the day. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Are you going to say something different than your colleague said?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17311	The Honorable Chairman, what I shall say will only be heard. I'll advertise the Rules of Procedure, the member...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17312	No, I'm used to various threats today. Don't, please, let it come from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17313	What threats? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17314	I'll remember something, hear it. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17315	What kind of threats are you talking about? So you're saying what I'm going to say before I say a word. I'm not threatening you. I'm saying you'll hear what I'm about to say. Now let me say and allow me the time I have. I'm advertising Article 107. You hurt him twice in one minute. So, first you told my colleague Mark Djurishic not to be a DS lawyer. I answered the same word the other day. So this is not about protecting the MPs of one, the other or the third party, it's about the dignity of the National Assembly. Now I'm telling you why I called before you told Mr. Djurisic. So, you said – you had enough of Alexander Vukic's lessons today. So you humiliated the National Assembly. That's how you made it clear that the National Assembly is a mob where someone on the side needs to teach lessons.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17316	Mr. Vesenovicu, the words you are now using "a mob", "someone on the side". Mr. Alexander Vukic is the Prime Minister and my comment is that all day... (Janko Vesenovic, from the post: How can you say for someone who needs to be taught instead of being a mob?) How can you tell who needs to be taught a lesson? All I understand is that you're tired. (Janko Vesenović, from the post: Please allow me to finish. I can't let you do that. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: What did I say that hurt you? ) Look at the stenogram. You have not offended me, but offended the National Assembly and this high house. Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17317	I hope that at the end of the debate, we will have the strength to end this in the spirit of how most of the day went. I'd like to go back to the budget debate. I would give a few examples when we talk about the city of Belgrade, as it is one of the important topics. Unfortunately, in the period until 2013, Belgrade's budget deficit was 20.5%. Today he's about 10%. That's almost 50m euros in budget deficits. It's a serious number. I'm going to give you an example of what it was like in a small company called Ada Giganlia. Ada Ciganlia is a small company and has about 30 permanent employees. At a time when DS led them, or prominent DS officials were directors of the public enterprise, he had 110 contractors, but not in the season, but throughout the year. A hundred and ten contractors. When Zarko Shormaz, the current director of the small company, came, the company recorded a debt of between 25 million and 30 million dinars. "Ada gypsies" to record debt, that's impossible. This company deals with the provision of services, rents cafes, rents space and collects revenues in such a way around the contents around the lake. To make a debt, you have to be, like, two things, or one that goes before the investigative organs, or you're completely incompetent, and there's a combination. What did the man do? In a few months, Ada Gypsies is now in the bullpen. He wasn't a super genius, Mag. When you agree to rent those ice cream gigs around "Ade gypsies", then in this year, when he's the director, that charge from the same company is five, six, seven times bigger, then that points to other things. I've given you an example of perhaps the smallest company in the city of Belgrade, a very striking example. I wouldn't get into that. It would take me all night to tell you about the plumbing and the sewers, and I know a lot about it. I could talk about it for a long time, but if I have to, I'll talk. However, this is a good example to see how much the Serbian government had to fight to maintain, together with local self-government, one stability of the system, to build a healthier society, and I think these reform measures will affect everyone, including the presidents of local self-government, to realize that they have to act more responsibly towards money. That money neither the government nor the local self-government found its way. Serbian citizens give and we all have to be responsible for this money and show that we are serious and capable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17318	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. You don't have a chance to replicate. Just tell me why you think you have the right to a replica. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Democratic Party in Belgrade. Are you DS in Belgrade? (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Yes. () Yes, but in this case you are not an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, nor the president of the parliamentary group, nor the deputy president of the parliamentary group, none of that. But, you know, Mr. Bozovic, it's like you mentioned Smedereva and immediately jumped Mr. Shormaz and said - I represent Smedereva. You don't have a chance to replicate. Or, Marko Djurisic, when the Democratic Party is mentioned. The word is Mr. Jovicic, you may now be given a chance for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17319	I'm sorry that Mr. Bozovic didn't get the word, I made it possible for him, because I mentioned his last name, to hear what he would say wisely. First of all, I want to thank all the ministers, as well as the Prime Minister, especially Mr Vujovic, who has been here all day and in one responsible way explained what this budget is and what it brings to the citizens in 2015, and it was indeed an honor to listen to arguments that were opposed to the stream of one flat-rate and untruth that we have been listening to all day. We listened to those who, for example, compared us to Africa and the standard in Africa, and I would only remind this gentleman that, for example, Algeria, Angola or some countries in Africa are the most developed countries that are on the rise and where Serbia is going there today and it affects business to build hospitals, sell its weapons. If we're talking about Algeria, Algeria, for example, gives money to the IMF. If we were at that level, and we're going to be thanks to the reforms we're conducting today, then we're really going to be a country, but you don't know that, and you don't care. On the other hand, I am grateful to Minister Vujovic, because today he talked about difficult and painful reforms, not like the other ministers, we hid nothing, we told the citizens the truth, and only in 2008 when the budget was adopted, Mr Djelic said the following - the budget would be 10% higher, and then he immediately announced the increase in salaries and pensions by 16%. The global economic crisis followed, your team then said at the head with the President of the Republic of Serbia, your best man, he said and said that the global economic crisis would be a chance for Serbia and that we would take advantage of the crisis and become a modern, orderly, economically strong and prosperous country. I don't know why you always find yourself when someone mentions anything, I didn't take you in that context at all. Perhaps the godfather of your colleague is behind you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17320	Mr. Sutanovac, don't recognize yourself in every speech, in every military greeting, please, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17321	On the other hand, remember your unemployment in 2008, when you announced that we would use an economic crisis that was 14%. In four years, it rose to 26.7%. Today unemployment in Serbia is 11.5% and we are proud of it. We don't say it's ideal, we have to go further, even stronger, even faster and faster to set as many goals as possible. Five hundred failed privatisations, and today you're saying that from some companies, exactly how money is pumped into some companies, and you're not telling the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that you sold everything that was worth it, everything that a single euro or dinar could be taken from, and then you left 160 enterprises in restructuring, which almost nobody will. Although no one will, someone has appeared who wants to do their best to find strategic partners, to find reliable investors who will enter the privatisation process, but not robbery privatisations, as we saw from 2008 to 2012. Your colleague, if you've already found yourself named earlier, said the government is doing nothing to raise taxes, etc. If you have the information then it will charge taxes, if you have the information that 27 billion dinars have increased tax collection, excise tax, to fight the gray economy, to fight corruption, then you yourself have denied it. He is right to chair when he says that you fell from heaven to the Assembly, as if from another parliament you might be Belgrade, but we can talk in Belgrade, because only there what you left behind can Mr Stefanovic talk about, can I, can Mr Babic. What did you leave in the GSP, in the "water and sewerage"? To this extent, you have successfully led the companies that "Parking is a service", which is almost impossible to be non-profit, i.e. to minus, and you have put it in a position to be in debt and to have a certain deficit. This is your policy you have implemented and today you are invited to give us a lecture on how to reform the good, etc. You say the budget is bad or good. There's no bad budget or good budget, there's just real or unreal. The budget is realistic according to Serbia in the situation it is today, and we looked at 2008 and 2010 unrealistic budgets based on the political spin, based on the purchase of the choices we had in the past, to stay in power, and hence the statement by Mr Pajtic, who said – will be prime minister by 2016. So it's important for him to be prime minister at all costs, with 6% no matter how much money he spends, without doing anything for the AP Vojvodina, it's important for him to stay with six votes, if nothing else in power. We are not guided by such politics and logic. I am convinced that every soldier and officer and health care officer and fireman knows and is aware that they cannot raise salaries according to DS prescription, be in charge, deceive, tell fairy tales and raise salaries and pensions. They are aware of this and be confident and confident that they will support these reforms, and I am quite sure that in 2016 we will no longer have such problems and that we will be able to raise our incomes to our citizens, because we are a valuable people and we want to work, but first of all to raise what you have brought down, what you have burned. Very often you act like a man, more specifically your party acts like this, like the man who burns the house and then sits on fire and criticises the firefighters for not being able to put that fire out in time. We're shutting it down now, now we're raising that house, and I'm convinced that no authority will ever be like yours again. Please don't throw it away. Miss Jerkov showed us today how she's doing it, 30 or 40 times she's throwing it, I don't even know if she's throwing it or hitting it, but you can say it to Mr. Becic as an experienced man.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17322	Mr. Sutanovac, you have no chance of a replica. There's only Mr. Bozovic. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I didn't ask for it.) ) You are registered in the system. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17323	This last one wasn't very gentlemanly, so I invite the MPs to adapt their discussion to the practice of good behavior. What I wanted to say is that Prime Minister Vojvodine, Dr Bojan Pajtic, will remain Prime Minister of Vojvodina by 2016 for sure and there is nothing to worry about because of the 100th and some MPs in the Vojvodina SNS Assembly, there is no more than 24th. What I wanted to say is that I also speak to Mr. Jovicic and Minister Stefanovic, we can talk about the failed Belgrade enterprises, and also some municipal ones like the recreational business centre "The Forest", but I don't want to waste my time on it. We can talk about stories that Belgrade was close to bankruptcy, and yet you are denied a surplus of four billion dinars at a one-rebalance. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: What surplus? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17324	Please, Mr. Djukanovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17325	When you mention Angola or Algeria, I'll remind you that Mr. Sutanovac, as defence minister with Algeria, has contracted a business contract for the military industry worth $406 million. These are along all bridges, along with all the kindergartens, with everything that the Belgrade City has done in five years or longer, when Belgrade was the largest construction site in Southeast Europe, these are DS results. I can't wait for you to stop giggling at the results of the Democratic Party and when you're finally opening one thing about Serbia, so that we can say -- here, yes, they hired one man without being a member of the Serbian Progressive Party, they opened a new job without being foreseen for members of the Serbian Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17326	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. Don't touch Mr. Shutanovec in memory. The word is Mr. Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17327	I'm advertising a violation of article 107, of course, dignity. The Honorable Chairman, as I recall, we brought here, it seems to me, the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, and it is defined that there is no Prime Minister of the government of Vojvodina, but there is a president of the province government. It's very important because there is a prime minister in this country called Alexander Vukic, and we can't play with the Constitution or the state like this. We don't have two prime ministers, and we don't have two states in one country. I would really ask you to take care of it, as all of us should not be offended, especially the Beogradians, because they left us Belgrade with a billion euros in debt. So much for their surpluses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17328	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Bratislav Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17329	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Algeria and Angola were mentioned. Today, Prime Minister Vukic said several times, we have no problem at all that on the bridge, which was launched by Mr Gilas, we also invite Mr Gilas and Mr Cvetkovic and Mr Tadic and Balša Bozovic, of course, whose time and contract was signed, but we paid him off and we carried out the whole story. I'm asking the same thing about Algeria and Angola, why didn't you do those jobs there, but now we're signing them and finishing them? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place, "How come we're not for Algeria?" )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17330	Please, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17331	Don't throw it away, Mr. Schutanovac. Not every one, as the chairman said, is a military invitation to jump. You had a lot of these contracts. You had a contract with Gaddafi, so you went to a military parade and led a unit to a military parade there. So there's been a lot of these contracts, and a lot of them we're doing now. What's the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17332	Thank you. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Replica! ) Mr. Sutanovac, wait a minute, there are MPs who have been given the opportunity to reply before that. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place, you mean Balsh? That's right. Look how you know. Don't protect Mr. Bozovic. It is that he spoke well of you and your memories as minister of the military, but the word is Mr. Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17333	Dear Chairman, a distinguished colleague across the street said – Bojan Pajtic will rule until 2016 because we have 24 MPs in the AP Vojvodina Assembly. We have been trying all day to explain and tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to see the Democratic Party's approach. It doesn't matter how many MPs you have, it's important how many citizens support you in it, and all the analyses, all the polls and the republican level, as well as the elections that were in 2014 show that it has 6% support. But no, it doesn't matter that we have 6%, it's the least important, it's important that the Serbian Progressive Party has 24 MPs, so they can't somehow transfer power. We do not want to transfer it at all costs, as you wish to keep it at all costs, but unfortunately the highest price of such a policy of determination and struggle, for power and for nothing else, is carried by Serbian citizens in the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17334	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. Mr. Babic, let Mr. Shutanovac replicate first, because he wants so much. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Military, Dragan. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17335	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17336	Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac, don't waste your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17337	I'm still getting it, and you're telling me I'm not wasting my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17338	I'm just telling you that your time is running out, that there's no time to pass without you saying anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17339	Mr. Becic, you haven't figured it out, you're running out of time. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17340	I may be running, but you're running out, Mr. Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17341	Mr. Gustic, have you been to Uzic today? (Bratislav Gasic, from the place: Yes. Did you open the factory? (Bratislav Gasic, from the place: Yes. ) Did you ask who set the cornerstone? (Bratislav Gasic, from the place: Yes. Did you invite me to the opening? (Bratislav Gasic, from the post: Because you were not setting up, but Mr. Djordjevic. ) Not true, you have pictures to look at on the Ministry of Defense site. Did you invite me to the opening? So, this mantle that has the prime minister, unfortunately, has not reached out to you. Until last year, you thought the Military Academy was a TV show, and now you're telling me about what the defense university is. I've been to Algeria three times, and I've received the president of Algeria twice. All the officers trained in Algeria, Serbia, are under the agreement of President Butefliki and our delegation, not to mention me. Serbia's biggest contract since the break-up of Yugoslavia has exactly been in Algeria on the basis of the deal. Same thing with Iraq. When you close something new, some new country opens up... Otherwise, the fact is that the prime minister, Mr. Vukic, as defence minister, went to Angola to lay the cornerstone for a hospital that should be built there and not walled. There's nothing from her, and it's probably not gonna be anything. But, how can I tell you, when you're done with that hospital, come and give us a lecture on how you did something, and the fact is that we were at Gaddafi's, that's true. We didn't go to Saddam, where you went on time. Maybe not you, Mr. Gasic, they didn't want to lead you, but these others did. But it's something else entirely. Otherwise, we didn't go to Saddam when he was under sanctions, but to Gaddafi when he wasn't under sanctions. The fact is that one good part of our industry and under your position is exported right to Libya. You've tried a lot more, so it doesn't really work, but what do I do to you, you try. Take a little trip to Libya, you see.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17342	Time, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17343	I understand your regret about the minister's chair, and I'm so glad you loved that chair so much, but it's not hereditary and it's never going to come back to those chairs again. You must first look at the hall, for which you set the cornerstone, opened in Užica a year and a half ago. It's a 3,600-square hall that makes a grain. Today we opened a hall for which the foundation stone was laid by Chief of Staff Ljubisa Dikovic and Secretary of State Zoran Djordjevic, a year ago, in which we have been working on a shell, 10,000 squares, which we have completed in the last six months. As far as the contract is concerned, we are trying to implement them, because these are significant funds that come into our dedicated industry. All I know is that the money by going to Gaddafi was spent, because a hundred-and-a-half people were led to parade in front of Gaddafi, and you didn't get any work back from there, and that's why you had a strong attack on the parade that was carried out here in Belgrade after 29 years. Why didn't you spend those funds here in Belgrade so you could show it to the citizens of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17344	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. You have no right anymore, sir. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: he asked me a specific question. If this makes you feel better as former military minister, please, you have the right to a replica of Mr. Gasic. I ask Mr. Gasic to make this enough and put an end to that military parade. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17345	Thank you. The fact is that the Serbian Army participated in a solemn defile with one smaller unit during the celebration of the 40-year revolution in Libya, and I suppose there's a cost to what it cost, and I don't know by heart, but the citizens of Serbia don't even know today since October 20th how much you spent on that military parade that was in Belgrade. As far as I'm concerned, everything you showed, I saw everything before I left the Ministry, nothing new, you know that, but you didn't tell us how much it cost. For what? Well, we could have made a 2012 parade with all those funds the same, but we didn't want to spend that couple million euros, what it cost. We thought it would be better to buy dozens or hundreds of jeeps for the Serbian Army, buy a new uniform, not borrow uniforms because there's not enough to parade. Not only that, I really tried all the time to avoid the comments about the parade because I've known these people all personally, much longer than you. So I know them and respect their work. But when you mention it, you cut people's wages and drive them to parade. Do you think that someone there supports it, has the understanding that the governor got a higher salary by reducing it, and they get a smaller one. Come on, let's not talk about the Serbian Army, please, I left five years there and I have a problem when it goes down the way it goes down. That's what I'm telling you most seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17346	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Mr. Shuttleman, come in. I think members of the army are proud to parade.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17347	Thank you. I promised I wouldn't have a replica of this. I thank you for all the insults you make towards me and the Serbian Army. When we are at the end of this government's term in three years, then we will see where the Serbian Army was then, and where it was in 2012, when Alexander Vukic came to her head. We have clear indicators. The math is here, so we'll see what the funds that were purchased between 2000 and 2012, how many tanks were sold, melted, destroyed, how many material assets were gone. We'll run an analysis. We don't have any problem. As we have no problem showing the costs of this parade of ours, not those of your parade, but of this parade of ours that was. So we have no problem with the fact that Serbian citizens know exactly how much and what the costs were for the parade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17348	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group. Right on the replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17349	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank you too, Mr. Gasic, for telling facts and truths about the Serbian Army. What I'm going to say in one sentence. I appreciate someone saying, so you know we're not going to organize a parade, because for the price of a parade, uniforms and jeeps could be bought. But I can't understand an organized parade or a purchased jeep. So, where's that money? Where is this army in that period? Neither. It's okay to choose, but you chose nothing. On the other hand, in a persuasive sense, and that is why I have the most reported myself, in a persuasive sense it is spoken of by MPs in the province's parliament. In a persuasive sense, in the sense that MPs are party property, so the SNS is said, you know, there are 24 MPs. By law, which I would inform my young colleague, that according to the Law on the selection of MPs, they are the peoples of their mandate. We, as a party, treat people who are either circuit or republican MPs, or committee members. We do not measure a kilo of live scales, nor do we trade, nor do we make some coalitions that in the morning support the government's survival with 6% support and survival of Bojan Pajtic, and the next day they are waiting for their leaders at "Nikola Tesla" airport to boast about social networks. We do not humiliate the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by the fact that after one great victory in Kovin, or by the great injuries in Vrbas, Bojan Pajtic comes out and says – it is a small sample, an insufficient pattern. You know, Kovin, Vorbas, Srbobran, that's where people don't live, probably to live a little sample.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17350	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17351	No, for SNS, these are people, and Bojan Pajtic Vojvodina has been in a devastatingly poor way for 14 years, with less and less support for raping democracy that he has prefixed the party's name to chair.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17352	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17353	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, here's today who knows what hour in this debate, I think we've been through four, five stages in this debate. In the first paragraph, we had the opportunity to hear Mr. Finance and really discuss, but only on budget rebalancing and budgeting for 2015, without time, and I don't think any of the MPs have even mentioned one word in ten laws that are in a united debate. In the second phase, we had a phase of prime minister who was mostly targeted by attacks on the opposition. In the second phase of something quieter, and now in the fourth phase we enter with the opportunity to talk to the finance minister in one professional way, at least I hope that we will have opportunities even though in this previous debate a lot has been mentioned since the privatisation of "Red Star", "Partizana", ice cream on Ada and who knows what else. So here one of the key topics or thesis was that the 2015 budget was a budget that would primarily reduce the fiscal deficit. I don't think that's true, it's seen from these figures, because the planned fiscal deficit for 2015 is 191 billion. Compared to the 2014 budget of 182 billion, it is an increase in the fiscal deficit of nine billion. If we go by that logic, the same trend is also recognizable in the analysis of tax revenues and incomes. Practically all planned revenues by the 2015 budget are lower than those planned by the initial budget law for 2014, but with the exception of VAT revenues from imports, public enterprises' profits and savings based on the reduction of public sector employees' earnings. Therefore, it may be concluded that the government's economic policy is based on imports, the reduction of employees' salaries and the acquisition of public enterprises' profits, which are partially realised by reducing the earnings of employees in these public enterprises. To what extent this policy is real, it will be able to be estimated from the information I hope to deliver tonight after the question I want to ask. First, what does the structure of a product whose increase in imports plan to achieve higher VAT revenues? Secondly, why is VAT in the country smaller for 2015 compared to the one originally planned for 2014, by about 30%? Is this actually a picture of a decline in economic activity and purchasing power in the Republic of Serbia, because it is clearly seen from the data that the value added tax in the country from 145 billion planned in the 2014 budget falls in 2015 to 104 billion. So, one dramatic 40 billion drop, which means about 30% of the economic activity and purchasing power in the Republic of Serbia. Third, an increase in imports without an adequate or significantly higher increase in exports could be a problem of the balance of payments and did the problems of this type lead to a significant decline in the value of domestic currency compared to the euro? Only in the period from 2014 to around 7% is this decline. Fourthly, a budget-receiving course based on the shown profits of public enterprises. This is, of course, a very current issue, and that was also said by the Prime Minister and by the finance minister. 15 billion were planned compared to three billion last year. We are here today, December 23rd when it is possible to project the profits of public enterprises for this year, so it can come out precisely with the data, but I think it is very important to say that 15 billion planned is a very tense figure, and especially for the reason that the example of measures and transfers was obtained, from the profit of public enterprises went with 70% of the total profit, which has seriously compromised the liquidity of some public enterprises. You yourself said that some public companies are on the market and are struggling with serious competition. I would also mention "Telecom Serbia" and the Post Office of Serbia, because they have serious competition, and it is not good 70% to get pumped out of these systems that have to develop in technology and in any other sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17354	Please, Mr. Kiric, time's up a long time ago. You had four minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17355	Just one more sentence, if you'll excuse me. I think it is important to say that regardless of what kind of budget will be adopted in 2015, I think it is extremely important in which way and in what atmosphere it will be implemented. There is no need to create conflicts, especially between the public and private sectors, because without the developed public sector there is no developed private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17356	Thank you, Mr. Kiric. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17357	I thank the chairman, dear ministers, fellow MPs, we have heard a lot today. I will try to be operational about some proposals in this debate in principle, which is primarily to congratulate all ministers, especially Mr. Vujovic, because he has endured the pressure that he has from the former regime's MPs who even referred to devising his expertise. We've had a lot to hear today, a lot of things to see that we haven't had so far. What is irrefutable is that the figures speak for themselves, that unemployment is decreasing, that the simple tax charge in the last quarter of 2014 is much higher, and some experts say that with this trend practically in 2015 Serbia will come to EU level, which shows essentially our strategic path and goal, according to which we should pursue. On this road we dictate the practical pace it will go, dictate the pace of the law that we will adopt, but what we should say and never forget, it is that the fiscal council in 2007 wrote that there is still a need to implement such reforms that we are now conducting at the head of the government of Mr. Vukic, and what should be said that there is gratitude, indeed to fellow MPs and the Women's Parliamentary Network and to the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, as president of the Peasant Party and Ministers in charge of Agriculture Snezani Boskovic. On the practical proposal that women who own agricultural landowners in some way through a positive support in terms of certain subsidies are stimulated and we had the opportunity to see that both representatives of the Government and Mr Vucic were visiting a agricultural land in Bačka Gradiška in August 2014. And that they saw that indeed women farmers can deal with this job, but I'll tell you only 9% of women, so those who deal with agriculture have registered holdings, or in their possessions, which is to be supported because this little man, a small businessman, will essentially feel these results if the state supports him and it will be amendments, means MP. We will also look for certain amendments relating to the Ministry of Economy, which is that small and medium-sized enterprises owned by women are simply also supported for the purchase of certain equipment, as well as for the Ministry of Education to support themselves on the basis of a certain positive point in the allocation of funds from the Innovation Action Fund. This applies to young scientists, and I think now is the time to say that all those who say that women academics should not exist at the Serbian Academy of Science are very wrong. Because some of our women abroad are highly recognised members of the Academy of Science. If Serbia so easily disowns them, then I don't know where we'll be. I guess the point of the story is that we have as many learned people as we can really move forward. I think there is an understanding between ministers and MPs, or MPs who support such an idea because no additional funding is required. It is only required that one wind in the back when it comes to, therefore, these competitions that will understand how important it is that such women exist, which can deal with this daily life that is not easy at all, especially if they are engaged in independent business and when we are talking about entrepreneurship at all, it is good that Mr Sertic announced that this strategy will indeed be adopted by 2020, which will cover entrepreneurship, not only female entrepreneurship but also youth entrepreneurship, and today we have had opportunities from the prime minister that the privatisation funds will virtually approve a particular fund that will go to stimulate the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises and "start app" loans for young people. It is in fact the path Serbia should go and develop. Finally, what is certainly good information for the finance minister, which, I think, has not been notified so far, is that the Competition Protection Commission, which is in charge of this Assembly's work, which was voted a month and a half ago, will practically be 190 million in surplus by the end of the year, of which 120 million will be paid in the budget, and it is resolutely given to the NBS for preservation, which is one big step because so far earlier advice that has not functioned paid leases to private companies 10,000 euros per month and which simply kept money at commercial banks. This shows that this congregation too can have a positive effect on institutions that are so - called. independent, that they have one state-owned approach and such an approach should apply to all, not only the Competition Protection Commission, but also to those we believe may not have acted in a state-of-the-art manner so far. I think they'll probably follow up on good examples of practice, so they'll turn around that way somewhere and good examples. I thank everyone and hope that these laws that we will adopt in one package will practically pave the way that we all need, which is the way for the EU, which Minister Joksimovic spoke of. On that road, we're sure to have a lot of difficult situations, challenges we're going to have to face, but I think that's a road that's unstoppable. Today we've had a chance to hear, whoever tries to stop that path simply won't be able and it shows simply that our children have a good future. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17358	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. The word has been given by MP Marko Atlagic, as the last registered speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17359	Dear Chairman, I thought I'd give up the discussion, but listening to the last four, five discussions of MPs from the opposition benches, I'm still not going to give up. I'll say a few sentences anyway. Dear Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this government where you ministers are headed by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic has inherited a disastrous situation in the country led by a former regime that has ruled for 12 years. The state of Serbia has been led under their leadership to the brink of bankruptcy. The government inherited a catastrophic robbery privatisation, unseen in the European area. Just to mention that 75% of the workers in the privatisation companies lost their jobs in the industry, and one third of the companies were successfully privatised, and during the privatisation from Serbia, over, I quote, of the short companies carried out between 2001 and 2010, as much as 51 billion dollars, completed the quote, the International consortium for Reporting Research. According to some other international organisations, more than 51 billion dollars have been taken out of the Republic of Serbia during the former regime. Gentlemen, there are few of you left, but let me say that the former regime has destroyed banking in Serbia. He introduced the bankruptcy, to mention only four major banks -- Beobanka, Investbanka, Jugobanka and Belgrade Banka. Those banks were developmental. They credited their own funds on favourable terms. They were supposed to be a domestic development engine, and they weren't supposed to be closed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, gentlemen of Ministers, Bozidar Djelic then lied that the debt of these banks was 8.5 billion marks and was only 1.7 billion euros. The total claims of the four banks were 6.72 billion euros, so four times their debt. And where is Mr. Djelic today? Mr. Duke of Meridian Bank, with 11m euros? Of course, he escaped, but I believe the hand of justice will catch up with him. He destroyed our banking, which was supposed to be the engine of our economy's development. And to finish this first part, I'm going to say a few more sentences. In fact, the former regime has destroyed our past, gentlemen ministers, our present, the future of our children. If they had stayed in power for only a year, they would have destroyed our roots. Now let me say, however, that the budget deficit would be significantly lower if it weren't for the former defence minister in the former government, and sitting among us, as a national MP, in this National Assembly, in the purchase of a mobile system, radio-real links, via Yugoslavia, damaged Serbia's budget for about 270 million dinars, completed a quote, a report by the state auditor, evening news released on July 18, 2012, page 17. Not only that, Mr. Military Gasic, former minister in the former government, and the MP, sitting here today among us and giving us a lecture, at the Ministry of Defence, paid for 2010 to upgrade software for VMA 850,000 euros. That's as much as four times as that computer program cost when it was bought, finished quote. That's the one who's been holding us, the respected citizens who watch us for a little while, hold our sermons, all the time. Let me finally say, two sentences the same as to deny, one MP from the MP's list of former regimes said about the government, that she was engaged in amateurism in rebalancing. Just to remind you, gentlemen of the Ministers, this MP often speaks of academic honesty. The same folk MP teaches students a lecture, believe it or not, sitting on a chair, sitting on a table with their legs crossed. Here's a picture of you, gentlemen of the Ministers, and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. It doesn't know the history of school and pedagogical ideas. It's actually like a bar singer. But it's not ethically responsible, nor academically honest. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17360	I thank Mr Atlagic, but because of the MPs, all I have to do is correct your line where you said there are few MPs in the hall, I see a lot of MPs in the position, most ministers are in the O.R., and only two MPs are in the opposition, just for the sake of the public. Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if the President or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure? The word has a minister in the government, Dr Dusa Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17361	Here, we're almost exactly 16 hours here. Ten o'clock, we're on our way. It's almost two o'clock. I just want to briefly, 45 seconds, not for 45 minutes, to thank all the MPs who took the floor today and on suggestions, very many useful contributions. I expect that the day after tomorrow these contributions and the proposals will turn into concrete amendments that will help us make a better budget. I'm taking this opportunity to thank my colleagues from the government. Ten ministers were here until the last minute until two minutes ago. Thank you all. I thank my colleagues from the ministry. There's an assistant, one of my assistants, Radmila. Here is Branko Drcelic, director of the Debt Administration and here is Nenad Mijailovic, State Secretary. They were very important in preparing this budget. I just want to thank my fellow ministers for their constructive work on preparing this budget, and you've seen the size of this document. So the budget sector and all the ministers have invested extremely much to make this budget, as we say jumped this budget, it's being built, the team's good, I expect we'll be even better at applying this budget and be ready to show you the results over the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-22-0.u17362	I thank Dr. Vujovic. I hereby conclude a joint principled single search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 1 to 12 of the agenda. We continue to work in details on Wednesday, 24.12.2014 at 9.00 hours. I thank the MPs and also thank the members of the government for their comprehensive debate during today's debate. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 11th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković and Olgica Batic. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE Law ON AMENDMENTS AND APPLICATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR 2014. A year. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that, in addition to the representatives of all the members of the Government, I have been invited to attend the meeting today by Nenad Mijailović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mirjana Ćojbašić, Assistant Minister of Finance, Irena Stevanović Gavrilović, Assistant Minister of Finance, Radmila Jagodić, Assistant Minister of Finance, Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour, Employment, Boraric and Social Affairs, Mr Nenad Katanić, Assistant Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Branko Drčelić, Director of Public Debt Management at the Ministry of Finance, Ivana Magdić, Assistant Director of Public Debt Management at the Ministry of Finance, Ružić Tripić, Head of the Ministry of Agriculture and Protection of the Environment, Slavica Manojlović, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance of Finance, Ivan Magnić, Minister of Finance, Minister of the Ministry of Finance, Minister of Finance of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Natasa Vučković, Ivan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marijanović, Aida Ćorović, Marko Đurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić, Dr. Blaže Bradić and Marijan Rističević. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, joint MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Natasa Vučković, Ivan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marijanović and Aida Ćorović and joint MPs Marko Đurišić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blažje Bradić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
