ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4550	Dear Madam President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, Mr Minister and Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes has been established by the European Parliament Declaration of 23 August on the European Day of Remembrance of Victims of Stalinism and Naziism since 23 August 2008, and has been confirmed at point 15. The European Parliament resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism since 2 April 2009. In the final part of Parliament resolution and the Government of all EU member states, but also countries that are candidates for EU and EU-related membership are called for the adoption and implementation of the resolution. To remind you, on August 23, 1939, the German-Soviet Non-Agreement Pact, known as the Molotov Pact – Ribentro, was signed, with Stalin's Soviet Union and Hitler's Third Reich reaching a public non-attack agreement, but also a secret agreement on the division of interest areas in Eastern Europe. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted Resolution 1096 of 1996 and then Resolution 1481 of 25 January 2006 on the condemnation of the crimes of the communist totalitarian regime and proposed to all its members to adopt documents on the conviction of these crimes in parliaments, as well as to establish a day of memory of all innocent victims. In his recommendation, the European Parliament stressed that each country adapts time and way of marking memories of victims of totalitarian regimes according to its own tradition and history. On August 23rd, it is marked in Estonia, Croatia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovenia and Sweden, while some other EU member states mark January 27th as the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust Victims, when Crystal Night took place in Berlin. Under the "Europe to Citizens" programme for the period from 2007 to 2013, the European Commission has allocated 215m euros to support programmes to protect the locations of mass executions, deportations and concentration camps, as well as for documentation protection programmes on these events. This shows the importance of the European Commission of keeping memories of these events and victims, as well as the new programme until 2020 have identified significant funds for the same purposes. Since Serbia has also been faced with tragic injuries as a result of the rule of the totalitarian regime, we feel it is necessary to declare in our country a day of memory of victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes and thus Serbia would show respect for the victims, as well as commitment to promoting and improving democratic and European values. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today it is 68 years since the murder of Army General Dragoljub Mihailovic, commander of the Yugoslav army in the country, Minister of the Army, Navy and Air Force, an anti-fascist who led the first guerrilla movement on the ground of occupied Europe in World War II. General Mihailovic fought against two totalitarianisms, the fascist occupation of the country and the establishment of a Bolshevik movement. He fought to preserve the democratic values inherited by the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, such as the multi-party system, the free market, freedom of choirs and agreements, conscience, organisation, expression, freedom of confession of religion. In line with the recommendations of the European Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to mark the day of memory of the victims of totalitarianism, I propose that the proposal be considered that on July 17th, the day General Mihailovic was killed, be declared the day of memory of the victims of communism, which since September 1944 were tens of thousands. Only the State Commission to determine the number of deaths and discover mass graves found over 50,000. I conclude, the question addressed to the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy and Employment is...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4551	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4552	I'm done. One more sentence. The question is – will amendments and additions to the Law on State and other holidays be proposed...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4553	Time. We have to respect the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4554	I just have to ask a question... to celebrate in Serbia too... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4555	The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4556	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my questions today have been addressed to the Minister of the Interior. In the last month, the administrative work of Presevo police station has been largely blocked. Citizens of Presevo are very difficult, with a very long wait, to get their IDs, travel documents, or to register travel vehicles, to gain confidence in their residence, or to get other documents issued by the Ministry of the Interior. At the Presevo police station, they justify very long delays in their work by blocking the internet connection between their computers and the central in the MUP. Since there has never been a problem of this nature in the past, which prevents citizens of this municipality from exercising their basic and most elemental rights, I ask the Minister of the Interior – what will he do to solve this very acute and urgent problem? The second question concerns a recent competition for the reception of new police personnel. My knowledge is that no candidate of Albanian nationality has been accepted in this contest. Three years ago, only seven Albanian national candidates were accepted in a competition aimed at completing a police band in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. It is indicative that the theoretical part of the entrance exam could not have been passed by candidates with high professional training. I ask the question – when will the Ministry of the Interior ensure adequate participation of Albanians in local police, in border police, in border crossing police? I'm asking a question, because with this restrictive personnel policy, you should be waiting very long. I note that in Presevo, 90% of the Albanian population in the local police, Albanians were represented by 55%, in Bujanovac with about 55% of the Albanian population, a third -- 33% of Albanians took part in local police, and only eight Albanian police officers were employed in Medvedja. The participation of Albanians in border police and police structures of border crossings is quite symbolic. I must note that there is an even smaller involvement of Albanians in the administrative area of Presevo police stations, Bujanovac, Medvedje, and in Medvedje there is not one employee in this part of the police station, in Bujanovac only one, and in Presevo there is a little less than 40%. Given that, in addition to the serious issue of the lack of participation of Albanians in the work of the police's administrative work, there is also a cause for the inability to exercise the constitutional and legal right to use Albanian language and letters, then again, it is very important when conditions are created to achieve the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights? The last issue was addressed to the interior ministry, with regard to legally invisible citizens of Albanian nationality. The question – on what legal basis does the Ministry of the Interior pass, and then deletes from the residence records of citizens, if he does not find him on three occasions in his apartment? Namely, three or four years ago, the refusal of the MUP to issue or extend personal documents to our citizens who were in the course of war and emergency, in the period 1999-2001, were forced to leave their homes and have not yet returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4557	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. I ask the MPs to be a little quiet. I can't hear the speakers at all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4558	I thank the president. My question will be addressed to the Minister of Health, Zlatibor Lonchar. In Serbia, 500 new skin cancer patients are diagnosed each year. This disease is treated with approximately a thousand patients, and 350 people die annually because of skin cancer. This is the data from the Institute of Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut. Exposure to ultraviolet rays increases the risk of melanoma, a malignant melanocyte cell tumour in the skin, in young people aged 18-29. In the EU and US countries, exposure to ultraviolet rays has been banned, while Australia is moving a step further and preparing a law prohibiting the production and sale of solarium. According to information I have, there is a proposal for a ban on solarium for people under the age of 18 in Serbia. My question to Minister of Health Zlatibor Loncar is when will the ban take effect and what does it contain in order to prevent exposure to these, by health, harmful rays? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4559	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4560	Dear President, fellow MPs, I would like to refer the first question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Nearly two years ago, when a new parliamentary majority was formed, one of the promises was that a TV subscription to be charged under the law would be lifted with a monthly electricity bill. It's been two years, that's not what happened. Each month, over two and a half million addresses of Serbian citizens are subject to an electricity bill – a public service subscription of 500 dinars. Every month, Serbian citizens are put before the choice whether to break the law or not. On the one hand, they are invited by the prime minister not to pay the subscription and to break the law, on the other hand, as responsible citizens, should respect the law and that their legal obligation, resulting from the Public Service Act, meet and pay the 500 dinars. This subscription, in view of the government's relationship, has fallen to below 30% and therefore the public service is unable to finance from this basic income and then the government has come to aid and has set out certain budget funds. When a new government was formed on April 27th of this year, in one of the first address the prime minister said – I will not introduce a TV subscription. My question is for him today – and when will he cancel the TV subscription? This is an amendment to one member of the Law on Broadcasting and I ask the question – when will the amendment and addition of this Law come here by emergency procedure, how will all laws come, and when will we remove this dilemma that Serbian citizens have every month and the fact that 70% of citizens are breaking the law? The second question is for the director of Telekom Srbija. Four months ago, elections were held in the Republic of Serbia. As you know, according to our law, there is that pre-election silence, when party propaganda cannot be conducted and when officials cannot appear in the media to speak and propagate their party's views. The director of Telecom during the election silence on Friday (March 14th) was the main star of all news, as he announced that an iPhone would be available in Serbia in two months. Here's four months, you can't legally buy that phone with either Telecom or other mobile phone operators, and I'm interested in the answer of the director, where it's stuck, if he wasn't telling the truth when he announced that it was going to happen in two months and if he could run a company where one such decision and thing couldn't predict and meet the deadline he set for himself? Was it only one way to help that party that put it in place at a time of pre-election silence when it could not be done by either the prime minister or the ministers or the other candidates in the election.? I expect to get an answer where it got stuck and see if there is a responsibility of the director of Telecom when he promised it and did not fulfill it or if there was a higher force that could not have been done for the previous four months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4561	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4562	Thank you. First question for the minister of construction, traffic, infrastructure. It concerns closed traffic on the bridge over the Danube near Beška, the right lane from the direction of Subotica and Novi Sad to Belgrade, closed for traffic due to the complete reconstruction of the asphalt on the tape. Since the same tape was opened just over a year ago, my question to the minister was – who was working surveillance? To get me a surveillance report. Who will finance the complete reconstruction of the tape and what will be done to increase the safety on the left track and from unconscious drivers and from quite poor traffic safety on that left lane, given the traffic frequency, all in the desire to prevent any accidents on the narrowed side of the road, and across the bridge at Beška. The second question is for the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. It concerns the rules on the short term, the means, the aflatoxin which, after 15 days from the determination of 0.05 micrograms, is now published on the Ministry’s website on 0.25 micrograms and with a decision that this Regulation is valid until 31.12.2014. My question is, what is the basis for changing the amount of aflatoxin? On what basis has such a decision been made and what amount will be made on 1 January 2015? Since it is quite unusual for acts, except in special cases where such cases are prescribed, to set a period of validity ‘to’. And when it consists of a period of validity "to", then all users and the public must know what happens after the expiry of that validity. The acts are usually signed with a period of validity of entry into force. The fact that aflatoxin is a substance of interest to our public, that there have been many disinformations from various circles of the public, requires that the government as a guarantee of timely, accurate, objective and detailed information inform the public of the reasons for raising the amount of aflatoxin as a residual of plant protection funds and to explain what will be the amount of 1 January 2015? A year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4563	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4564	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, or the prosecution and other competent authorities. As part of the question, I would like to invite them to respond to very irresponsible statements from individuals, members of the DS. It is the president of Vračar municipality, Mr Branimir Kuzmanovic, who on several occasions made very irresponsible statements, where he also potentiated some alleged corruption that the press wrote about and even mentioned some figures. Some totally incredible figures, some 100,000 euros, and all in the context of the Vračar Municipality's board members, who joined the DS, and continued their political engagement within the SNS. In front of me are copies of certain newspaper articles that speak for themselves. It has been "Blic" since 26 June 2014 with the title – SNS is trying to buy DS committees at Vračar. Then the daily "Alo" from the same date with the same title, then "Evening News", "B92", which also wrote about it. Finally, there is a copy of the Vračar Municipality site, hence the official Vračar Municipality site, which is also abused by the occasion for party purposes. In view of all of the above, I call on the competent authorities to address this case, and I suggest that Branimir Kuzmanovic be invited to an informative conversation and to make his specific findings about this case, about potential corruption, and see what this is about, what is the view of this corruption? Did someone give someone a famous 100,000 euros? Was there at all that 100,000 euros, which he probably doesn't believe in himself? Let's see if it was true or a lie at all. If it was a lie to see why he lied? If it turns out not true, explain to us the reasons for such pointless and very irresponsible statements. And be prepared to bear responsibility for something like that. As a National MP living in Vračar, and given the circumstances, I am also a committee member in the Vračar Municipality Assembly, I am very interested in this case. So I would also like to look back on the SNS municipal committee's reaction to Vračar, which points out that despite the monstrous lies that the DS has hit us with, I am proud to point out that the SNS has joined two committees, while joining another, so three councilors of the Vračar City Municipality Assembly. Their dissatisfaction with the catastrophic management of Vračar Municipality by DS, the criminal situation in public enterprises and institutions whose founder of Vračar Municipality, the fact that DRI has found huge irregularities in the revision of Vračar Municipality's budget with both elements for criminal and criminal applications, a complete lack of vision and a programme to solve all accumulated problems in Vračar, these committees have come out of that party and joining the SNS in which they will continue their political engagement. The Serbian Progressive Party is an extremely democratic and open party. Especially open to all citizens who think well of their country, their city and their municipality. I am also obliged to point out the courage of these individuals who have suffered terrible insults, humiliations and psychological harassment by certain DS members, who have shown that everything is just not democratic. The ghastly lies written by the president of the municipality on Vračar Municipality's site will be the subject of analysis, and we will decide in the coming days whether we will sue him or seek only a public apology. Conscious of the anxiety and fear of members of the so-called The DS, because they are in total political chaos and hopelessness, I call on them to stop such anti-European and anti-democracy methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4565	The word is from MP Srdjan Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4566	Dear Presidents, honourable colleagues and fellow Members, I would like to refer the parliamentary question to the Prime Minister, Mr Alexander Vukic, above all because he is the first prime minister of the government to pay particular attention to culture and culture, which we, cultural MPs, were extremely pleased with. This is about "Avala Film". "Avala Film" is a large enterprise in the former Yugoslavia that went bankrupt 18 months ago after two decades of agony and decay. What was happening in the meantime was that a group of tycoons were trying to, pretending to be a national interest and a question of a significant cultural institution, privatizing "Avala Film", to repay the debt to the creditors of about six million euros and to do the next thing, to renovate the production of "Avala Film", to do something like the owner of "Belgrade Film" who had successfully renewed production by faked a cinema distribution for three years and then started selling 14 cinemas of "Belgrade Film" to do something already seen with the privatisation of "Luke Belgrade" to redesign from public to construction land. So "Avala Film" privatisation is planned to be a creative combination of "Luke Belgrade" and "Belgrade Film". "Avala film" is a company that, at a time when it was still working, and I'm talking about a period more than two decades ago, was designed for 40 films a year, which even at the time of SFRY failed to realize a year. “Avala film” is today a shell of empty and spent studies, it is where turbo folk shows are recorded, workshops are privately made coffins and it is not worth convincing anyone that this is a company of cultural and national interest. What I propose is that the state do the same thing that the tycoons intended to do, but to do for the benefit of all of us, in favour of culture, to pay the supporters of the Avala Film six million euros, in collaboration with the City to re-purpose from public to building land and to sell 40 hectares of the best building land in the tender. The value of the building land is lowly estimated at around 80m euros. The 80m-euro could build a new small studio that meets the needs of Serbian cinema, a complete cinema network in Serbia could be restored. There would also be money left for the construction of a modern gallery and for the restoration of the National Theatre and for the restoration of the Museum of Contemporary Art. Whoever solves the problem this way and the "Avala Film" issue, which has been dragging on for more than two decades, will be recorded in gold letters in the history of Serbian culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4567	Thank you. We're going back to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vladimir Pavicevic, Branko Ruzic and Aleksandar Senic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that aside from the representatives of the motions of all members of the government, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Aleksandar Stojanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and Zoran Lazic, Assistant Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. We continue to work and move on to a search in the details of the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs Olgica Batić, Zoran Zivković, Milan Petrovic, Vesna Martinović, Mirko Čikiriz, Miodrag Nikolic, Borislav Stefanović, Dragan Todorovic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Marko Djurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdan Bogdanović, Dr. Blaže Bradić, Natasa Vučović, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micinović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Nena Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olen Papug, Nada Lazić, Djordje Vušić, Dejan Čačović, Milaština Bićinić, Muštić and Šiljanjić, Stirjanjić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments as well as reports from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected the amendment of MP Miodrag Nikolic to whom he proposed the addition of a new member of 4a. and the amendment submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blažija Bradic, who were proposed to add a new member 41. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4568	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, in an explanation that rejects the amendment that I have tabled to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act states that the amendment is not accepted for a reason because under the term ‘employer’ means a domestic and foreign legal and natural person employed, so that they do not appear to be listed from the reasons which are an integral part of my amendment, and as is further said – all due to the specificity of the rules relating to international traffic, which are subject to the regulation. If you have not noticed, you have seen that this amendment has in fact indicated that I recognise the intention and intensity of the promoters, and that the intention and intensity of the motionors are precisely set out in this Article 1 of the proposal we are discussing today is to regulate work-law issues, i.e. to ensure the application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, as well as in the case of international transport. So what is in that explanation has absolutely nothing to do with what was the objective of the amendment that I submitted. In law enforcement in our country, there is a law called Law on resolving the conflict of laws with the regulations of other countries, and that law clearly states the provisions, and that law is in fact clearly defined cases in which international disputes will be subject to domestic courts, courts of the Republic of Serbia, and that is the case for work-law disputes. That is why the amendment has been submitted precisely for the purpose of precision, which is not recognised by me as the applicant of the amendment, and that is to say that, in any case, when it comes to transport, I am talking primarily about international traffic, this law will provide for the jurisdiction of our courts and, above all, in order to ensure the application of our Labour Act by means of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4569	The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4570	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to say at the beginning of this debate in particular that only one of the 25 amendments proposed by our parliamentary group is accepted and one that is purely technical, so we will not support this law at the end of this debate. I would just like to say a few sentences about the fact that it has been established that our amendment has not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We were, of course, aware that it was a rule and that we couldn't submit amendments to members who weren't subject to amendments and amendments to the law, but we thought something had changed on June 10th of this year. At that time, this Assembly discussed and adopted Mr. Marjan Risticevic's amendment to the Law on Electronic Communications. He then added a new member, then called Article 13a, who intervened on Article 27 of the existing law, which was not at all part of the amendment and addition of the law. We thought that when that precedent was made that some rule had been changed and that these rules could now be used by other MPs. I am confused now that our amendment has been rejected for this reason, and before Mr. Risticevic's amendment has entered the procedure and been adopted in this assembly. I ask you to remove this ambiguity, to put our amendment in the process, such as Mr Rističević's amendment, and to show that there are no double arches in this assembly and that you treat all MPs, regardless of what parliamentary groups they come from, are treating the same thing. If you can't find that amendment, I've got it here, I've got what the amendment and supplement law looked like, where you'll clearly see that no amendment has been given to article 27, and that's why he couldn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4571	Time. You were talking about an amendment to Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4572	No, I spoke as president of the parliamentary group within the 15 minutes I have, so you can't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4573	I'm sorry, really, but you can't talk about anything you want in the context of it. You need to talk about procedure. So, we've opened the debate on Article 1 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4574	If you wanted to take away my word, you had to at first. I haven't talked about my colleague Batic's amendment in two minutes, so you can't take my word from me after two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4575	But you have to talk about an amendment to Olga Batic. Here, you've admitted yourself now that you haven't spoken.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4576	Yeah, 'cause I didn't pick up after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4577	Thank you. It's been a while. We'll take two minutes from 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4578	Why? There's no limit to having to talk for two minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4579	I really can't let him talk whoever he wants. You've now taken to discuss Amendment 26. Don't, pal, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4580	I'm talking about an amendment that didn't go into procedure, which I won't be able to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4581	You will later find a provision of the Rules of Procedure that says that in the debate in particular, the MP says whatever he wants in the time given to him as president of the parliamentary group. For the first time I've heard of this in my 25-year parliamentary practice. Thank you. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept the Amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is proposed by the amendment, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4582	Thank you. In light of the bill's proposal, among the reasons for the adoption of the law, it states that the proposed amendments and additions to the Labour Act will contribute primarily to the implementation of the fiscal policy measures of the Republic of Serbia in order to improve domestic and foreign investment in the economy, reduce work on black and increase employment. This amendment to Article 2, where I request that the member be deleted, has been submitted because Article 2 does not make any progress in order to give rise to reasons for the adoption of the law, which is to increase employment, reduce work on black and encouraging foreign and domestic investments. That's the case with the other 20 amendments I've submitted. This amendment to the Labour Act does not contribute to the protection of the rights of employees, and therefore this law is bad and therefore does not need to be voted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4583	Thank you. The word is Alexander Jovicic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4584	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has since the beginning called upon the National Assembly the honourable MP who spoke before me indeed tends to endure pointless amendments, only to hinder the work of this Parliament. The Serbian Progressive Party cannot agree with the fact put forward by the MP, that amending and supplementing the Labour Law will not make it easier to employ. Yes, and how it wants to make employment easier, but it's not just the goal of making it easier to work, it's our priority, but it's also the goal of those who need to hire people to make certain reliefs so they can do positive work at all, so they don't have a problem with the big bureaucracy that's been suffocating our economy for the past 15 years. This is indeed the goal of this reform law and of all those that we will adopt in the coming period. Indeed, putting up with dozens of amendments just to take time and stop this House's work is scandalous. We have to respect this home, and if you already have some facts, you're really bringing them out in a serious way, argumentably, and not as you've been doing in the last three months, just on a flat-rate basis to get back to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4585	I thank you, Mr. Jovic. For his word, the People's MP Zoran Zivkovic appeared in the replica. You don't have the right to a replica, you're not mentioned. You have no right, you have already spoken according to this amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: See Article 156, I have the right to a five-minute replica. If you're gonna use that time, that's fine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4586	I am sorry that the President of Parliament has not heard again what is being said here about the MPs, since the disqualification of my right to submit amendments has been expressed here. Absolutely no one in this House, including an esteemed colleague, is competent or qualified to assess whether some amendments are pointless, whether they aim at this or that. My real business, constitutional...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4587	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, you have to talk about the amendment, you have not received the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4588	The gentleman spoke the same way, so you didn't warn him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4589	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4590	Therefore, if this is the way of relations with the opposition MPs, I have nothing against it, but it is only important to establish that there is a majority here to assess whether the minority in parliament behaves in the way most would behave. It is nonses that are suitable for the ideological and practical settings of the parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4591	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Alexander Markovic reported after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4592	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, no matter what the previous speaker has said, the wide public's interest in today's amendments to this amendment and the addition of the draft labour law is extremely large, such as their importance to the citizens of Serbia. Because of the seriousness of the subject and the importance of these laws, a comprehensive debate is needed, a comprehensive analysis of the proposed solutions, as well as an overview of all other social circumstances in which these laws are adopted. The Serbian Progressive Party has pledged to implement reform measures and pass reform laws. We've got the citizens' trust to do this job. And we're implementing reform measures and we're passing reform laws...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4593	Mr. Markovic, we're talking about an amendment to Article 2. Please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4594	I owe it for the speech and the nervousness...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4595	You didn't get a line, you got a chance to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4596	I must make an introduction, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4597	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4598	Are the reforms difficult? They did. Are reforms ever slow? They did. Are reforms ever painful? They did. Do reforms also require unpopular measures? Yes, they do.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4599	Mr. Markovic, don't talk about the amendment. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4600	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that the amendment be presented and explained in the manner in which it is rejected. I propose because he proposes to delete a legal solution that is very good and that is in the best interests of the workers. The proposer of this amendment, seeking to delete the members in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, offered as an explanation for his position the lack of some of the qualities he interpreted personally, while failing to notice all the qualities that are unequivocally clear and which are among other things in an explanation that we have received from the Government, and which are in the best interest of our workers. For the sake of this example, I underline that in the reasons that we have received from the Government, it is unequivocally evident that this proposed legal solution encourages collective bargaining and encourages the information of employees under their rights. If it's not in the interests of workers, I really don't know how we could define the good interest of our employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4601	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. According to the amendment, the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4602	As a colleague has said, this is precisely proof that the applicant of the amendment has not even read this amendment at all, nor knows to explain it in the best possible way. And the proof is indeed that Article 2 wants us to improve the safety of all employees, and the amendment's applicant wants to delete it, and it represents it as if he is fighting for employees and wants all employees in Serbia to have protection. It's absurd, and that's what we point to, nothing more. You can file hundreds of amendments, but I'm asking you to just read them, analyze them well and explain them well, and maybe adopt some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4603	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. National MP Milan Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, Social inclusion and poverty reduction have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milan Perić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4604	Dear colleagues and colleagues, chairman, ministers and others, only one mild correction by Milan Petrovic, please not Milan Peric. In any event, in Article 2 relating to the old member of the Labour Act, Article 3 is mentioned – that the employer is obliged to deliver the Labour Regulation to the representative trade union within seven days of the date of entry into force. However, we believe that the right to information in the process itself to adopt any documents, any acts may be included by other non-representative trade unions, although they do not have the right to vote, which means that they could also possibly make a good proposal and some good suggestion even to the employer and there have been such cases. So we think that the right to information can be given, thrown out only a representative word, and put all the unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4605	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. Here you are, Minister of Government, Mr. Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4606	Thank you for the amendment. I'll just explain briefly why we don't accept it. I fully understand your intensities and yes, and this government wants to engage in social negotiations as many actors as possible. But the intensity of this law was to get the unions together, to be stronger. That's why we treat representative unions and say, representative trade unions. You know, just for our public in Serbia, there are 24,000 registered unions, 24,000. Of course, they're not all centrals, they're branches, they're branches in every organization, etc., but it's 24,000 legal entities, 24,000 bills, 24,000 presidents, 24,000 seals, 24,000 who know what. The intensity and this law is that a union fight is being fought through representative representatives, that unions are being organised, that they get together and that they can represent workers in the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4607	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. The floor was addressed by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4608	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, indeed, if we were to praise the Government somewhere regarding the amendments and additions to the Labour Act in this particular article. I would ask all people, especially those who are employed, to read well when these changes are changed and complemented when they are adopted, it's on the site, and now they're going to read. Why? Because this article is far more precise and far greater rights are given to workers and specify how they can be realized, than has been the case so far. I would really ask people not to fall for the media delusions that someone is trying to represent in public, especially not these unions, or some of their leaders who have fought exclusively for their privileges, and have certainly not fought for the rights of workers. This defines how a worker can get his rights through a collective contract and what a representative union means. Just before Mr. Vulin said well, we have 24,000 different unions. That's crazy, no one can exercise any rights. This clearly indicates who the representative union is and who the employer can talk to. I think that's the best way a worker can exercise his rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4609	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The People's MP Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Mrs Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4610	I thank and use the time of the parliamentary group. counterpart Vesna Martinovic, submitted an amendment concerning the employer's obligation to deliver the labour rule to the representative union and to highlight it on the advertising board at its headquarters no later than seven days before its entry into force. As reasonable as the amendment is, Bennigan and at the very end of the line, to determine what happens when the case comes from point 2 of point 3 of this law, which was the case before. The government's reasoning on the refusal of this amendment is not to be accepted for reasons of constitutional obligation, Article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to publish general acts and, after the publication of the general act, all interested may be informed of the content of the act, and without setting out a specific obligation on how to publish the act, which should be the subject of the decision of the act-makers. So, the government tells us, in fact, the constitutional obligation to publish the act, so there is no need to accept an amendment that requires publication of the act. This is not the only explanation that, with the light surface of the government, the competent ministry refers to amendments submitted by both the coalition MPs and the opposition MPs. My request is to put a little effort into it, just a little bit, and not write such an explanation, that it has to be published, so we don't want an amendment that requires it to be published. In addition to understanding that the entire text of the law which is in the assembly procedure does not agree with the arguments and text of the law, considering it to be the failures of previous draft laws, so the one which, in addition to the basic draft law which entered into the procedure, forgot the reasons for removing the reasoning of the provisions which do not exist in the draft law which is in force. By accepting this amendment, we would simply contribute, evidence that the employer really cares about being informed. I know the argument doesn't go into the text of a law that's going to be published and it doesn't matter what it says in the explanation, but maybe it's time to really start paying attention to what we're writing in the arguments, because it has to do with what it says in the explanation of the amendments that are being rejected, because it says how much the government's interest to comment on someone's amendment, so much about the thoroughness of the approach. If it is so easy to show by reason that it is raining, then it opens up a large field of suspicion that serious provisions that change people's lives, such as not being informed about what is in the rulebook, come into serious doubt, and produce serious consequences for people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4611	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, professor Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4612	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my fellow MPs from Boris Tadic, NDS-ZZS-ZS, have submitted a lot of amendments to this text of the Amendments and Supplements Act, because we want to influence the improvement of the quality of text and the protection of certain workers' rights, to clarify certain provisions and to correct this text. In the debate in principle, we have already declared that in this form we cannot support the law, but if the amendments are adopted, we will be able to do so. Now let me explain this first amendment, this was an introduction to all the amendments, so I don't repeat it more times. The first amendment refers to Article 2(2) in order to be said: ‘in a period of seven days from the date of its entry into force’, replacing the words ‘the next day from the day of its adoption’. In addition to this amendment, we have given reason to the fact that the proposed amendment provides that when the employer adopts a regulation on work, and in the event that the conclusion of a collective contract fails, he shall immediately submit the rules to the representative union, and before the regulation enters into force, so that the trade union and employees may be familiar with future rights and obligations. The government has rejected this amendment, for the reason that the solution, contained in the bill, is more adequate. For the delivery of the rules to the union within a short period of time, there is no need, since the rules and regulations, like any general act, are published and entered into force as a rule, at the end of eight days from the date of publication, so that the union has the opportunity to get acquainted with its text earlier. I would remind myself that the amendment refers to the situation where the employer adopts a labour rule, in the event that the participants of collective bargaining fail to reach agreement on the conclusion of a collective agreement within 60 days of the start of the negotiations. So, I'm talking about a situation where there are certain tensions between participants and negotiations, their relationships are not previously agreed and the employer, according to his needs, adopts a labour rule. In addition, it is known that there is a certain practice, that such rules are published, so it is unlikely that all employees are familiar with its content. The government has well noted that rules of law take effect on the eighth day since the day of publication. A shorter deadline is possible. The amendment was meant to ensure that employees were really familiar with the text of the regulations and their rights and before the entry into force, therefore, of the labour rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4613	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4614	My amendment is exclusively legal and technical. The proposal for a law states that the labour rules are passed by the competent authority to the employer established by law, i.e. by a general act, etc. I have submitted several amendments, since this termology is being used throughout the text of the law, but then I have withdrawn these amendments, signaling in this way to the Minister and the Government that it is necessary to carry out the legal-technical redundancies. My proposal is to take the position of the 6th Article 2. The bill reads as follows: ‘The labour rules are adopted by the employer’s competent authority’. The government rejects the proposal on the grounds that the amendment has been rejected, as the solution in the draft law is more legal-technically correct. I disagree with that because the competent authority is not with the employer, but is an integral part of the employer's organisational structure as a legal person. For example, Ministers, if we use analogy, will we say — a competent authority at the National Assembly or a competent congregation body? Are we going to say - government or government authorities, organizations, services? Are we going to say – the competent authorities of institutions or institutions and their bodies? So the competent authority is not in the employer, but is an integral part of the employer's organisational structure as a legal person. The organ is not – the code, next to, is already inside that organisational structure. I think that this is the basis of a legal-technical editorial and that you should consider, through the competent committee, that the committee in charge intervenes, because this is based on the new technique that we all use, and we want the law, in addition to making the norms clear, to be more linguistically correct. In my best interest, I have submitted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4615	National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4616	It is said here that this law should, in addition to those provisions, and those reasons to increase employment, investment, to reduce work to black, should also increase workers' rights. We have a clear example of how it's done by the legislator. Namely, Article 3. The bill states that in Article 12, paragraph 1 states: “Protection of life and health at work, ” it should be replaced by the words“ health at work. ” This means that the text casts out “the protection of life. ” I would like the legislator to explain to me how workers' rights are justified, employees' rights, therefore, by the text that reads: “Protect life and health at work, ” that it is erased and replaced only by guaranteeing that it is “health at work”. I heard on the Committee an explanation that "healths at work" means "protection of life", which, of course, cannot always be true. The employer is in charge of ensuring the integrity of life for every employee. Someone can be healthy, so someone can come to his bank, shop, kill him, and it's an employer's obligation, to protect life, not just health. Of course, this is another proof that this law has no real intentions. Of course, there were good solutions in it, I did not submit amendments to all 90 and some members, I submitted amendments only to twenty, and the rest of the text could justify the expectations that were given, but the objective of the amendment I submitted was to prove the inconsistencies of the legislator, which, in the light of the reasons for the law, is one, some goals, some intentions, and then in the text of the law, gives up on it. So this member of the law endangers the lives of employees in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4617	According to the amendment, MP Marijan Rističević has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to be energetic, and a little bit with a dose of a certain kind of disgust, refuse this amendment, to pay good attention to what is proposed here. To me, protection of health is also a protection of life. Obviously, a dead man cannot be healthy, nor can his health be protected. By protecting people's health, we also protect their lives, but it is not only what the proposer suggested to delete, but the motioner also suggested the following words to be deleted, so in Article 3 he suggested that the words "the dignity of a person" be deleted. So, after the word “integrity, ” the word is added: “the dignity of a person. ” By proposing that the whole member be deleted, not individual words, he suggested that their right to dignity and personality be deleted in the Labour Rights Act, which defines the right of workers. What further did the Proposer suggest to delete? In Article 3, he proposed that the words "in accordance with the law" be deleted. Does erasing these words, does the character of this amendment, determine the character of the promoter? Does the promoter think that the law should not be followed, did he suggest that the words, “in accordance with the law, ” should be deleted? Is it a habit from some past times when you were in power and when no one could do anything to you and when you did not act in accordance with the law and when you received privileges and subsidies in accordance with the law? Did that suit you then, so, having your own experience, you wrote that this article should delete the words “in accordance with the law. ” If we delete it, then it should be written to add words that it does not comply with the law, from some habit, or from some earlier situations that it wants to pass. It is obvious that it is unbearable for someone who was the authority, who ruled over others, to have others rule over him and simply wants to distort certain members of the law in any way, the promoters, etc., and, among other things, to say, "the dignity of a person" is deleted from the laws that define the rights of workers, and I am saying that he has submitted it in a desire to protect the rights of workers. It's almost amazing. I therefore suggested that you pay good attention to this Article 3 or to the amendment, which the Proposer wanted to erase the dignity of a person and to act in accordance with the law. It is unacceptable for me that a national MP, who passed the laws, that someone who was prime minister, who proposed the laws, who signed on behalf of the Government, as a legislator, would propose something like this. I don't blame MPs who are in a certain way beginners and who don't know what the procedure is. I don't blame those who weren't in the government. But those who know the clue, who know the method of the laws being passed, it is unacceptable that someone who was the first man of this country, of course, after the president, but at that time the president did not ask himself anything, suggests such an amendment, which fully derogates the person of the workers and fully derogates the work of the Assembly, because someone proposes that the members of the law be deleted, among other things, the words "to act in accordance with the law". For me, it is unacceptable, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to pay good attention and that when you press that red button to press it well, with full attention, with full intensity, given that this amendment is totally unacceptable to erase these words from the law. So, it is unacceptable for the largest legislative House of Representatives and so please – press the red button against very hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4619	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. You've used two minutes and 40 seconds since the MP's time. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4620	Just one very clear explanation. It's simply the law's name. So it has nothing to do with life, and we have just entered in this amendment what is called the law, and the law conveys everything that is done – safety at work, protection of life and injury at work. So it's a completely technical thing. Let's not politicize everything. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4621	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Dragan Shormaz reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4622	I join the evaluations of my colleague Risticevic who says that this amendment should be rejected because he even clearly writes here in the article, if we are already talking about the protection of life, as explained by the promoter, says – someone can enter the bank and kill someone, it has nothing to do with health, there are certain situations that know what health protection is. For example, in mines we have to protect people's health from gases, etc. There are regulations that have been laid down for this. Here you have a nice word in front of you, in the member, which says: “Employee has the right to earn adequate income, safety, health at work. ” Security implies that the employer is obliged to protect him, among other things, and life through security, so there's nothing controversial about the member himself. It seems to me that the amendment has been rewritten to stand up and speak two minutes against the government and against the bill and some creation of a new party's image which, if created in this way, might be better to continue, but should be expected for us from the SNS better, because we will continue to have a weak opposition. But there is still a need to expect answers from the authorities to do this. So it clearly writes - safety, health at work, so that's understood and there's nothing controversial here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4623	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. Dr. Vladimir Orlic reported on the amendment. Here you go. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Zivkovic, you'll get it when you get to your turn, because there's a lot of reports. You can't get a replica, you can only get an amendment. You have two minutes and 15 seconds left. Now he has the first word, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4624	I thank Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I agree with the reports that this amendment should be rejected and with the reasons that have just been given. So the dignity of a person, the right to protection guaranteed by the law, should certainly remain in the legal solution. In addition, however, I point to another additional problem with this amendment. The problem of the oral interpretation of the amendment, which has nothing to do with the written reasoning of the amendments as it was addressed at the time of submission and which, in fact, has been rejected by both the Government and the competent committees. Since I am afraid that such a practice will be present all day long as I see it, this is a genericly written set of amendments to different members, which uses the same, identical two arguments, an explanation that the proposed solution does not contribute to the implementation of fiscal policy, does not encourage domestic and foreign investments, does not reduce work to black, etc., and another form of reasoning that does not comply with what the legislator has set out as its primary objective. It stretches all over, so I'm afraid we'll be able to listen to different oral arguments that are not in line with what we got when the amendments were made, and I don't think it's in the spirit of the work of this institution, and I'm asking that we warn it in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4625	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. According to the amendment, the MP, Dr Marko Atlagic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4626	Dear Chairman, I suggest that this amendment be rejected and I fully agree with my colleagues, previous speakers, that the amendment proposed by Mr. Zivkovic does not make any sense. Not to say that I am shocked by this amendment, I will say for what reason, because the government's proposal itself reads this way – employees have the right to receive adequate income, safety and health at work. So it was thrown out of the former law and protecting life, as if safety contained no protection of life. It may not even matter how important it is that the amendment promoter denies the dignity of a person, that it denies the personality of integrity in general and, more importantly, that by eradicating this amendment, it actually denies employees under 18 years of age, i.e. Unemployed persons with disabilities, their fundamental rights. I can't believe the amendment promoter was the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, not to say, I'm shocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4627	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4628	It's very strange that I have to endure all these insults and that I have no right to reply, but I have no intention of fighting the will of the majority. As one current politician would say, I've never heard of a more stupid explanation for the position of a parliamentary group, but such an interpretation that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4629	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, you're just saying what you're saying to others and saying that others are saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4630	Wait, if the Prime Minister can do it, why can't I?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4631	Please treat your colleagues with respect and respect the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4632	Mr. Chairman, if that's what the Serbian Prime Minister says, what can't I say?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4633	Mr. Zivkovic, I've been listening very carefully all along. The previous speakers spoke of the amendment, saying their reasons why the amendment should be rejected. Please, now you have the word after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4634	Thank you very much. You didn't listen very carefully, but it's completely irrelevant. I have no intention of educating anyone. So the explanation that my amendment denies the dignity of a person and an explanation where the word "protection of life" threatens the rights of a worker, such an explanation can give someone who either has a memory problem or is not a good person. I know for a fact that they're... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4635	Please, Mr. Zivkovic. According to the amendment, MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4636	To be clear, I don't want to get into who's stupid at all, who's smart, I don't think it's something that this gym is responsible for, or us in the National Assembly, that determines whether anyone's healthy, is not healthy, how it works, but we decide who works here, we follow everyone's work, and we advocate to make a better society. I am in my explanation of why this amendment is necessary, and I am not going to enter into how other colleagues explained it, clearly said that if it stands – employees have the right to earn adequate income, safety, health at work, that means they have the right to protect their lives, because that means the word security. The employer is required to ensure security. Who writes that you need additional protection of life, etc., and now explains it here in a few times and has the right to do so, no one argues that it has the right to do so, but it's simply all accurate written and unnecessary is such an amendment that it stands in the law and this thing itself speaks of all of us in the way we treat this business, who is well-intentioned, and who just wants to take a picture. If it's resentful on this side of what I was saying, it's my impression. I guess I'm right about that, too, huh? If I'm wrong, it's the citizens who will evaluate it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4637	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. According to the amendment, MP Vladimir Djukanovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4638	I thank you, Chairman. I have to admit, obviously someone doesn't want to listen to a minister who's nice enough to explain that it's technical compliance and that's simply something you have to write in this way. You know, it's kind of cynical, and it's extremely hypocritical that today someone's supposed to be working on protecting the lives of the workers. At the time when the losers of transition were created under the criminal laws that were passed in the Labour Act, especially those of 2001, we experienced that workers cut their fingers and lunch in front of cameras their own fingers, tie themselves to bridges, raise their hands to themselves, hang themselves because they were fired in the justice of God. Today someone...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4639	Mr Djukanovic, we are talking about an amendment to Article 3. Please connect it to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4640	I'm sorry, I'm just interested in what kind of workman's life was protected by, when some of them became winners of the transition, because they were getting subsidies for vineyards, and people were out of work and tied to bridges and lunched their own fingers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4641	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Marijan Rističević following the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable President, the Honorable Citizens, so as not to remain unspeakable, I repeat again that here I have been asked to erase the dignity of the person of the Labour Act, that it was required to be deleted in accordance with the law. Just because someone suddenly made 1,500 average personal incomes in the name of subsidies and incentives, which had come into the budget by taking them from their employees, to get the money into the budget, because one of the total couples took a thousand and a little more personal income, that doesn't mean that they should erase the dignity of a person and that doesn't mean that they should be deleted in accordance with the law. In order not to be unarranged, therefore, I underline those words requiring an amendment to delete from the draft Labour Law, namely that by the law defining labour rights, the law deletes the dignity of a person and conduct in accordance with the law, and therefore I again warn the MPs that it is unacceptable, and the one who said that the stupider reasoning had never heard, apparently did not listen to himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4643	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. According to the amendment, the People's Parliament of the Jelisaveta Prebojec reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4644	I'd just like to explain that this amendment actually doesn't make sense because this is just a termological alignment with the Safety and Health Act at work. Every institution, every public enterprise must have a person in charge of safety and health at work. Accordingly, it is a risk assessment act for each job. I really don't know why we should be discussing something that's absolutely clear in the draft labour law for so long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4645	Thank you, Mrs. O'Brian. The People's MP Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4646	It's just about continuing the debate on this subject. Yes, this amendment may be better defined, but we simply don't agree to something being understood, especially in the roof law, in the Labour Act, such an important institutional law. So, the proposal from fellow Member Martinovic is that the words "life protection and health at work" are replaced by the words "health at work", which is your proposal, deletes and remains "protection of life and health at work". A very clear and precise definition. We don't agree to something being understood. The employer is obliged to ensure such working conditions that guarantee security, protection not only of health, but of the lives of the employees. Then to whom do we leave the arbitration? The labour law must not leave such a species and so much space for arbitration when it comes to the protection of life. The full protection of the life and physical integrity of the employee is achieved only if he is at the same time guaranteed the right to safety, protection of life and health at work. We think that employees' lives are the greatest value to remain protected, as is already prescribed by the applicable law, and we don't see any reason why it should be deleted. So we propose this amendment and we suggest you think again, because it's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4647	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. According to the amendment, MP Dragan Shormaz reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4648	Same explanation. Does the Law on People's Messengers say: security or protection of the lives of the Messengers of the people? When it comes to security, security involves protecting lives. There's nothing to tell. Then let's also make sure that someone comes in and cuts off his finger, his hand, makes him disabled, not endangering his life. Then let's make that clear. Security means it all. The word "security" means it all. And health at work is also accurate and you know what it means, so that insistence on something, let's not play now. So it's security -- protecting life, protecting everything else. So, the employer is obliged to provide you in the workplace and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4649	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. Dr. Vesna Rakonjac's national emissary came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4650	Thank you. This amendment is absolutely unacceptable for a simple reason, because even under another law, according to the Law on Safety and Health at Work, the termologically clearly defined what safety at work is. It is the maximum taking of all preventive measures to protect employees from all possible employees in the workplace, and therefore it is understood to protect his life, all other professional diseases. The employer is fully responsible for carrying out all these measures towards his employees. As the colleague pointed out earlier, any institution or company is required to have a person for safety at work. If you look at the safety at work acts, it will be clear to you that safety primarily involves protecting the lives of employees and through preventive measures that protect them from all the underlying situations, as well as occupational illnesses in the course of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4651	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blažja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not adopted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4652	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to article 12 dealing with the rights of employees, i.e. workers and especially the part that concerns women's rights. The proposer suggested the following - an employed woman has the right to special protection during pregnancy and childbirth. We suggest adding: “and breastfeeding of the child”, with the reason that the proposed change provides for special protection not only for pregnant women and maternity women, but also for working mothers during breastfeeding. Such special protection is necessary given the importance of breast-feeding for the proper development of infants. In addition, the Labour Act already knows certain solutions guaranteeing the right to the daily absence of a mother who is breastfeeding, and the proposed amendment is in line with the already existing solution in the law itself. In particular, it should be borne in mind that it is Article 66. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees special protection for families, mothers, single parents and children. The government has rejected our amendment with an explanation that it is not accepted for the reasons that the rights are employed by the child who is breast-feeding are regulated by other provisions of the law. We are aware that the rights employed by the child are regulated by other provisions of this law, but the proposed amendment concerns provisions which determine the principles and which guarantee special protection, I insist on the words "special protection" of the child-indicator, and are not in collegiate with other provisions of this law, but only represent their addition. There was a discussion on the board last night. Government officials have refused. I ask Mr. Minister to reconsider this proposal. I believe that we share the same values, especially with regard to the protection of workers, which I deeply believe is being advocated, as we all want well for the employees of the Republic of Serbia, and especially for the sensitive group, which are mothers, mothers and pregnant women. I hope, Mr. Minister, that by the end of the debate you will consider, and I also appeal to all MPs to support their co-workers, i.e. mothers of the present and future in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4653	Thank you. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4654	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that the government has quite rightly decided what this amendment has refused, especially as the explanation that the distinguished colleague has now made is very unspeakable. What's this about? In the current law, so far, maternity has the right to stay away for up to a year from work. In those years, they were divided into three months, what a maternity leave is, and nine months for the care of a child. Within that year, breast-feeding takes place in women who are able to breast-feed children. By chance, not all women are able to breastfeed children. It remains unclear what you meant when you gave this amendment, did you mean after that year that it had the right to breast-feed a child? That in no way, if the government meant it, should not be accepted, because it is an abuse. It could be misused for a woman to be away from work, falsely giving explanations that she wants to breastfeed a child. There's one more thing, physiologically, it's also that after a year the newborn or the infant takes another type of food, so eight or seven hours away from work doesn't pose any threat to the newborn, because in that time they're going to take another type of food. I appeal that this amendment, which in fact represents false care for women and families, is absolutely rejected and not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4655	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4656	Thank you. Dear MPs, representatives of the ministry, respected ministers, I find this amendment totally unacceptable. We talked about it on the board last night. I think I'm absolutely reasonable to talk about it, given that I raised three sons and that I properly breast-feeded them as much as I thought I should. By 12 months, that's what I've explained to you, it's absolutely enough for a mother to breastfeed her child. If he wants after 12 months, simply, eight hours, like his colleague said, they're no obstacle. If you were thinking about that second part, where there's flexible working hours and if you thought that a woman who is breast-feeding before 12 months of work, that's where we clearly defined and defined that she has the right to leave and that the employer is obliged to provide her with such a job that will not endanger her health either as a mother or as a nurse. Therefore, this amendment is absolutely unacceptable. I think the government has done well in this case, without any threat to the rights and rights of women and mothers and pregnant women and breast-feeding and endangering children's health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4657	Thank you. The People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradic reported on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4658	Thank you. Not wanting to get into the controversy at all, I've been communicating with the minister, but I respect your opinion. We have proposed this amendment in order to give the possibility and legally cover the part if there is a need for, say, a father to use maternity leave, and a mother to nurse a child. There are a million variants, a million ways to force life. What I'm saying doesn't mean that I'm going to be able to change your way of thinking, that's your legitimate right, that's what I said and when we spoke in principle, that you have the right to pass the law you want. This is what I'm talking about for citizens who are watching the broadcast, to give them the opportunity to see that there is another alternative to the law and other legal solutions that have not been adopted, which could have been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4659	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4660	I really have a problem with understanding why this amendment was rejected and especially this discussion, since in principle we listened to this law now allow the employer, or employee, of a woman who is employed to have free time to breast-feed. It's one of the papers. You, Minister, have spoken of it as a good paper that this law makes. Our amendment is only a supplement, that even in Article 12 of the law that speaks – an employed woman has the right to special protection during pregnancy and childbirth, she added: "and during breastfeeding of the child". Here, Article 41. The amendment and addition of the Law states that Article 90 is changed and that after saying “pregnancy, ” it adds: “and the child’s breast-feeding worker. ” So, a working woman who nurses a child has the right to leave. You've introduced this law, and we've welcomed it, the right of a woman to breastfeed a child. We just added that to this article 12, because you added that to Article 90 later. These discussions now talk about women who are breast-feeding do not need that time, because they usually end up breast-feeding within those 12 months as long as they are entitled under the law to maternity leave, or nine months away for child care. I don't understand this discussion because it's contrary to the amendments and additions of Article 41 of this law that we're discussing, which is just introducing that right. My only question then was – do you announce by introducing this right that the maternity leave is cut short from the existing 12 months to less, because then women will find themselves in a position to breastfeed a child and that the employer will have to provide them with free time so that they can do so? So I don't understand why this amendment is being rejected, especially not discussed, because they are contrary to Article 41 of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4661	The word has a minister in the government, Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4662	The right that we have provided for this member and which we have provided for by extending the right to breast-feeding cannot be equated with the fact that breast-feeding is pregnant and with the fact of maternity. It's not the same. We have increased the level of right by telling the employer – well, while the woman is breast-feeding, she has certain rights, but she cannot be equated with the fact that she is giving birth. He can't. Then you might say, "I will breast-feed my child and it will be my protection against any change in my working relationship." It's not the same. Don't let us abuse. We're increasing the level of law, even though it's never been planned before, then we say -- not a little bit of what we've now increased, but let's increase it up and fully even it out. We can't even those two facts. The government has taken, I believe, a good step, by allowing the employer to take care of the fact of breastfeeding, but if we evened out what is now and only by adding that the woman is breastfeeding, that she is absolutely protected through the fact of breastfeeding, then we would totally abuse this right. So breastfeeding is a new category that we've introduced and we're protecting it, or we're allowing it to get something else that it's never had before, but we can't even it out with these two things. Every time we talk about these things, to be honest, they'll always be... The easiest thing to say is that. It's politically wise to keep this quiet and pretend that we don't talk about this at all, because what I'm saying right now, you're going to say -- well, you will... As you said yesterday, they want to release their mothers, and this is actually a reason to fire women after eight months, etc. It's not. I know politically that it is not wise to discuss this, but because of the citizens of Serbia, I want to say what it is. We've increased our rights, but we can't even them up that much with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4663	The word has a folk MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4664	I don't know if an esteemed colleague doesn't understand or wants to introduce one inconsistencies into this amendment. Why we introduce men who take maternity leave. It's completely pointless. Will he breast-feed a child? I don't understand what you wanted with that. The matter is completely clear and fully regulated. A year ago, a woman was away from work. In that year, she's been breast-feeding her child for three or four hours depending on some other professional stuff. That doesn't matter now. She's absolutely legally protected. She'll be away from work for a year. After a year, if she needs to breast-feed, she'll breast-feed him out of business hours. There's no need for her to be away from work, to be away from work to give up a child. It's abuse. By doing so, we would introduce abuse into legislation. What my colleague said before, after a year, the child takes another type of food, not just breast milk. So when they get home, she can double the child. What the minister mentioned, we're not going to say now that someone two or three years of breast-feeding a child, so two or three years should be absent from work for two, three, four, five or six hours. I think it's completely illusory to continue to discuss it, especially when I think it's being discussed by people who are not professionals and who are dealing with something... So this is a purely political discussion, not a professional one. Professionally, everything a family needs is given by law and is absolutely well regulated in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4665	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4666	Just a few sentences. Yes, dear colleague, this is a political discussion. This is a place of politics. The profession is being discussed in the Serbian medical society and in the ministry. I repeat, you have your attitudes, your vision of how to resolve the care of family, children and breast-feeding children. We have our views and allow us to have the right to represent and defend our political views. We think it should be solved this way. We think it'll be good for both family and mothers and children. We want to protect them. You have a second attitude, which I fully understand and accept, is legitimate. If you think that's the way it's supposed to be, go ahead, vote in Vote Day, but don't dissuade our political and our desire to help the family, mothers and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4667	The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4668	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. I won't speak here as an expert. I'll talk like the mother of a nine-and-a-half-month-old baby who's breast-feeding and working, whose husband is on leave for child care. What's the problem with maternity issues, pregnant women in this country are very often politicized. I don't want to go into any further political debates, but we all know that the World Health Organization recommends breastfeeding a child for up to a year, if possible up to two years with complementary food. All of us, or mothers, know that babies are slowly, at five, six months away, introducing other kinds of food, if it's a baby, like. My child, nine and a half months old, only breast-feeding in the morning and only in the evening. It would be ideal if all mothers had the opportunity to feed their children with their mother's milk as long as possible, but please don't abuse it. Last year we brought here amendments and additions to the Labour Act, which we provided mothers with breast-feeding breaks, one or more breaks during the day, if he comes back to work before the end of this year that he has the right to be with his baby. On the other hand, we are introducing something new with these changes and additions, as the Honorable Minister said that they are also provided with work protection, meaning that breast-feeding category, but I really ask that we do not abuse the subject. We know that the current campaign "Right Bravo for Mom" is supported by most of us, and we hope to be able to change this Law on Financial Support to families with children. We all have our mouths full of stories about birth, and when there's something concrete to be done, then we use it for political bickering. I really urge that we improve the lives of these mothers and that we may be thinking in that direction, which is one of the recommendations of the European Commission, to motivate our fathers more to use leave for the care of the child, as I mentioned at the outset. My husband is on leave, and he is one of the 1% of the men who uses it in Serbia. We should think about introducing exclusive law. That means we're not just offering men a chance to do it, but that they have, there's a period of two, three months that fathers will be able to use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4669	The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4670	I agree that we should freely express our political views, but our political views should not be opposed to the profession. They must be connected to the profession and be true. I would pray that this very sensitive question, when the categories of the population are sensitive, we do not abuse them. You've been told. The World Health Organization recommends up to 12 months of breast-feeding. The woman is on maternity leave until then. If he wants to go to work before he does, time and working conditions are assured not to endanger her health, her quality of milk, or her child's health. So don't let us manipulate these things and abuse them in one very incorrect way and confuse our mothers and all our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4671	The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4672	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, apparently this topic is politicised and opposition parties want to gain small political points in this way. I have to report not only as a mother but also as a doctor and as a former health and pediatric worker. Simply, we all know that breast-feeding is recommended for up to a year, and if there is a need for the child to continue breast-feeding, there are certain commissions that extend maternity leave to mothers. Therefore, I do not see this much concern of opposition parties and the struggle to extend this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4673	Thank you. According to the amendment, Parliamentarian Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4674	Of course the amendment shouldn't be accepted. As regards the amendment and addition of the Labour Act and the protection of breast-feeding mothers, the proposed proposal best protects their interests, as well as the interests of the child and is in full agreement with the confirmed International Labour Organisation 183, which concerns the protection of motherhood.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4675	Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4676	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. I would just ask my colleagues when we discuss this amendment without using the terms... I understand, it's allowed, of course, but I don't think it's convenient to talk about petty political points. The opposition is trying to make political profit on things that concern the profession...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4677	Please, Mr. Stefanovic, you've been given the word after the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4678	About the amendment, and I mean it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4679	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4680	So, every amendment, every act submitted by any MP is a political act and all that is done in this assembly, this is not an engineering chamber or a medical chamber. The profession is in service of good solutions, and not to speak here now, it has various professions. He's got a profession that says he doesn't need to breast-feed at all, he's got professions that say a woman should sit at home and do nothing but sit at home. So, don't you talk about the profession, some of you here. And then they say, "That's a political thing." I don't understand. If the amendment is attacked, let it be said what is not good in it, except for saying – the profession says that up to that year it is breast-feeding, and the rest is a matter of abuse of the evil opposition. That's nonsense.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4681	Mr. Stefanovic, what you were just talking about, that's what we're going to set up with the code of conduct. National ambassadors Natasa Vukkovic, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunovic and Vesna Marijanovic, together submitted the 5th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4682	With this amendment, we wanted to underline that the problem of discrimination can often be misused and we asked only to add that in the course of the dispute, a dispute that can arise over whether the employer has misused his rights and implemented some kind of discrimination remains the question of how will this dispute be resolved? This, as proposed in the amendments and amendments to the law, has, in my opinion, one flaw because the problem arises that the issue of discrimination is also addressed in a law which deals specifically with discrimination issues. It is our proposal that it should be added that it will be applied in accordance with the Law on Discrimination. That's one important detail, because otherwise this issue of discrimination is often very flexiblely interpreted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4683	Thank you. Under this amendment, Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4684	I thank you for the amendment and the proposal, just to clarify the government's position. We're starting with the fact that this law applies to exactly such cases and there's no need to list them. But what is important for this member spoken of by the honourable MP Micunovic is that we have brought here a brand-new institute, something that was not in the past law, and here I can see it was not spoken of here either, which is that the employer has an obligation to prove in the event of a dispute that the worker has committed an appropriate offence. So the burden of proof has been transferred to the employer, so the employer now has to think twice about whether with some thin explanation he can fire someone. Is that worth it if there's a lawsuit? It's the essence of this member and it's a whole new thing and it's totally going in favour of the employee, not whether it's accurate, to which law. It is understood, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4685	According to the amendment, the word has Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4686	Of course, I don't want to dispute the good intentions of the applicant for the amendment, especially since Professor Micunovic, I believe that one of our living greatest scientific workers is, so I really respect him absolutely, by saying, if we accepted something like this, we would have already entered the criminal-legal sphere, which this law could not regulate. No one forbids a worker to call on a member of the 16th. The law prohibiting discrimination, by having to file criminal charges and the conduct of criminal proceedings. As far as the member is concerned, it's another piece of evidence that this law is just good for the workers and that it's directed against the unemployed. This law defends workers' rights in the best way. Just what the minister just said, because it's a burden of proof, if the worker indicates it was discrimination, the burden of proof is on the defendant to challenge it, which I must admit is a bit of a hairline with some legal practice. In criminal law there's always a burden of proof on the one who's suing, and here's the reverse situation, the worker has the right to indicate that there was discrimination, then the defendant has to prove that it wasn't. I think there's a working man in the big cave. Well done for one of these.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4687	Thank you. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4688	As far as Article 6 is concerned, - The Regulation lays down organisational parts with the employer, the name and description of the business, type and degree of professional training, i.e. education and other specific conditions for the work on these jobs, and the number of perpetrators can be established. The amendment submitted is to throw out this part – and it can, in order to become a kind of employer's obligation to determine that number of perpetrators. We were in a situation where we knew how many times to manipulate it when we quit, that it was later determined or reduced and reduced. So I think, especially according to the information I have from the Labour and Ministry of Labour and Employment, it's one of the semi-variances where I can define different layoffs and give the worker a job job. Our contribution in all this is that, in accordance with the opinion of all the legislators of this law, it is best to specify the law and the very information that arises and interprets it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4689	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4690	I thank the president. My colleagues from the New Democratic Party and colleagues from Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, we were going to correct the first position of this member. The Proposer says that the regulation lays down organisational parts in employers, the name and description of jobs, types and degrees of professional training required, i.e. education and other specific conditions for the work on these jobs, and the number of perpetrators can also be determined. We intervened in paragraph 1, by saying: “description of jobs” we added: “jobs that can be performed under full-time”, since this has become current in these amendments of the Law and I think it is necessary to find them in this Regulation. Then we added item 5 and 6. In paragraph 5, we provided that a regulation in a public undertaking and social capital, the founder of which is a public undertaking, i.e. a state, should be given the consent of the founders for the regulation. In paragraph 6, we have provided that the regulation and the systematization of business, when it comes to public undertakings and capital companies, the founder of which is a public undertaking, means that the number of perpetrators must be determined. The proposed amendment provides that the rules on the systematization of jobs must determine which jobs can be done in part-time, especially when the proposed amendments to the Law are closer and more detailedly edit work with incomplete working hours. The establishment that jobs can be done in part-time achieves a higher degree of security, because the person who seeks...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4691	You're using MPs' time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4692	... employment, as well as those who are already busy full-time, and wants to move to part-time advances are well-known jobs that can be done in part-time. In addition, it reduces the possibility for an employer to abuse his powers and fire an employee as a technological surplus, not offering him the opportunity to work part-time. The second proposed amendment relates to public undertakings and capital companies, the founder of which is a public undertaking, and aims to further control the regulation process, i.e. with the consent of the founders and the obligation to predetermin the number of perpetrators, to prevent any abuse of powers in the recruitment process. The government has rejected this amendment and, in its explanation, says that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the procedure for the adoption of general acts in the public enterprise is governed by a special law, and transactions with incomplete working hours can be subject to the rules and without specific legislation. We think it might have been good that this rule contained these elements that we listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4693	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4694	Thank you, Madam President. In the draft law, Article 7 provides for the replacement of only certain words in Article 28. The law. What I must praise is that these amendments and additions to the Law introduce a termology that is much more acceptable, has a higher degree of culture and humanity within it and instead of the term "invalids", the term "indifference persons" is introduced. With the amendments provided for in the draft law, this article would read: "A person with disabilities shall establish a working relationship under conditions and in the manner laid down by this law, if the special law is not otherwise laid down". We have submitted an amendment amending this article, so that it reads: “A person with disabilities builds a working relationship under conditions and in the manner laid down by this law, if the special law does not establish more favourable conditions for establishing a working relationship with persons with disabilities.” In addition to this amendment, we have provided an explanation that the proposed amendment guarantees a higher level of protection for persons with disabilities when establishing a working relationship, and also conditions for their easier employment and inclusion in society are met. The government rejected this amendment, with a reason not to accept it for the reason that the draft law has carried out a precision and terminological alignment with the rules processing the area of employment of persons with disabilities. I would add that the amendment does not even dispute the terminology of compliance with those rules, but is only proposed to adopt a solution in the event that more favourable conditions are provided for by another special law for establishing a working relationship with respect to persons subject to these more favourable conditions and that the conditions laid down in that law that are more favourable than those laid down in the Labour Act apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4695	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. The time of the parliamentary group? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4696	It's a technical-terminological correction that I believe is more correct. For the purposes of Article 8(1) of the amended point 4 of the wording: ‘it shall be completed in at least three copies’, it shall be replaced by the words ‘it shall be made in at least three identical copies’. So, each contract, or contract of work, is the consent of the parties' will, and there cannot be two or more copies of the consent of the will, because the consent of the will is only one. On the other hand, the contract instrument concluded in written form may be drawn up in several copies and should therefore be pointed out that the labour contract can be drawn up rather than concluded in several copies. Also, we believe that in order to prevent abuse, as well as for additional precision, it is necessary to stress that all specimens should be identical. So we suggest you reconsider and adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4697	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4698	Thank you, President. This article is amended by amending Article 33 of the existing law, by deleting one part of the text of that law and adding a new text. It could make sense if most of the new text wouldn't actually be an old text, which was erased by amending the law. He says – the labor contract contains, this is deleted, the name and the place of the employer, that is, point 1, the name and last name of the employee, the place of residence, that is, the text to be deleted, and in the text offered as the new text is written – the contract of employment includes the name and place of the employer, the personal name of the employee, the place of residence, or the place of residence of the employee. The only change is that the words – the name and last name of the employee, replaced by words – are the personal name of the employee. This probably has a dramatic impact on the protection of workers' rights, on the achievement of the Serbian government's fiscal policy, on the growth of investments, domestic and foreign, and on everything else that is the reason for this law. Of course, it's not the only part of the text that's absolutely repeated in the new solution, but basically from point 1 to point 10 all repeats itself behind each other. It is something that cannot bring good to employers, employees, or Serbia as a whole, so for these reasons I have submitted an amendment and I do not expect the government to accept it, nor the assembly majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4699	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4700	Of course, this cannot be accepted before we would then be in many ways contrary to certain European directives. If someone is against such directives, then he is obviously not exactly on that path to the EU, and before, of course, he said a notorious lie, because it is not true that everything is being copied, some things are being specified, especially about earnings and, of course, especially about self-employment, or what everything is required in the contract itself to be stated, because so far it was only an important degree of expertise, and now it is exactly and which educational profile is the future candidate for a particular job, etc. So it's all true, and that's why I'm asking all the people who follow this transmission to necessarily read on the website the amendments and the additions of the law and everything that's finally going to be the final version, so that these things that come out of someone who's not telling the truth don't become the truth. If we're handling that famous wing, I wouldn't mention who now, that a hundred times a lie becomes true, I'm afraid something like that doesn't happen right now, so I'm asking people to get acquainted with all these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4701	National MP Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Dejan Nikolic. What time will you be wasting? From the MP's group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4702	In fact, it's about better defining what the labor contract should contain. The amendment reads that in Article 9(1), point 1), a new point is added - the date and place of completion of the labour contract. Every contract, including a work contract, I think it should contain the date and place of conclusion of the contract. This is particularly important for the achievement of various labour rights, the calculation of deadlines, as well as for the determination of the rules which were in force at the time of the conclusion of the contract. That's why, Minister, I really ask you once again to read this amendment, I think it just better define what the labor agreement should contain, and to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4703	National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gordana Komic and Dejan Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Branka Karavidić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4704	Thank you, President. We have made an amendment to Article 9(2). Paragraph 2 states that the labour contract does not have to contain the elements referred to in Article 1 which describes what the work contract contains if they are established by law, collective agreement, labour rules or by some other act of the employer. We believe that everything must be accurate, that the labour contract must define both the basic earnings and the working effect and the wages, the increased earnings and other incomes of the employee, that is, the payout deadlines and everything else referred to in points 1 to 13. In fact, the contract of employment is a contract between an employee and an employer which is concluded on the basis of laws and other general acts and represents, as well as any contract, a two-way legal act which regulates mutual rights and obligations between the parties. Hence, the labour contract is practically a provision of laws, collective agreements and labour regulations. The amendment is said to be not accepted on the grounds that this article of the bill reduces unnecessary administration for the employer in all those situations where the elements for determining basic earnings, labour, wages, increased earnings and other receipts of employees, i.e. deadlines, etc. The labour Regulation or any other act of the employer must be familiar with the employment contract, the existence of all these acts, the employer must make these acts available to the employee, etc. The government's reasoning is absolutely unacceptable, because on the basis of it can only be concluded the following - in order not to burden the employer, employees should read the rules and other general acts, interpret them, recalculate the basics and the rest, so that they do not finally understand how his profits are calculated and how much they are. So the employee should at least be a lawyer. This is particularly interesting in the case of low-level people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4705	The word has a minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4706	That's what our argument is. We do not think that an excessive administration should be done, that is, repeat what has already been regulated. Let me tell you, these are some things the public may not know, but that's how laws are passed, specifically this member was brought into absolute agreement between trade unions and employers. So they've literally agreed completely with this argument that there's no need to stand. The unions said that, there is no need, we are regulated here, and employers said – we need less administration. So on the task force, this member is agreed, trade unions, employers and government, from first to last sentence. Of course, it does not oblige you in any way, you have the right to your own opinion and I am absolutely not arguing, but I am just saying that the unions have told you about this member – quite fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4707	Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4708	Thank you. As far as I was following the public and what was in the opening statement for this law, this is a member of whom the promoter is particularly proud, which is that the employer is now obliged to keep the work contract somewhere and that the inspection can check very easily and easily. That would be very good if it were true, but it's not. Namely, the previous member of the 35th reads – the employer is obliged to provide the employee with a photocopy of the application to compulsory social security no later than 15 days from the day of the employee's entry into work. So, at that point, every employee within 15 days of obtaining that copy could see if he was registered or not registered to work and draws his rights out of it. No, here it is offered that the employer is obliged to keep the contract of work, or another contract in accordance with this law or its copy in the seat or in another particular room of the employer, or, beware, elsewhere, depending on where the employee or working person works. This in a special room of the employer, I understand that, in the seat I understand the same, but in second place, it's a very interesting solution. We will probably hear the answer that it is specified by some other law, which means "in another place", but for workers in Serbia "in another place" means that there is no idea where. Finally, I think it's completely pointless that in the 21st century we determine the formal state of someone's employment by digging through drawers. There are modern devices, IT technology, where you can create a unique register of employees in Serbia and where every worker, and of course inspection, can check...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4709	Time, you have another 55 seconds in total. You want to waste that time?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4710	This is my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4711	You spent two minutes on the amendment. You've got 55 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4712	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4713	Thank you. The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4714	The Serbian Progressive Party will vote against the adoption of the amendment. We understand the fact and the situation that during the current Labour Act, 354,000 people were out of work, that the unemployment rate at the historic maximum, that people in Serbia live hard, that people in Serbia in order to feed their families reach for them to accept and accept working on black. Realising that working on black has no safety or health insurance, they have no security that awaits them in the future through retirement. This, and such a legal solution, the legislator wanted, not to let the employee know whether he was registered or not, because he was employed, unfortunately, because of the high unemployment rate left by the government until 2012 forced to work on black and conscious to work on black, but in this way we want this work to be kept to a minimum. Because we want to prevent working on black, because we want to prevent what the inspection to work in a large number of cases has experienced on the ground. You know, we can't give you a job contract because he's with an accountant. We can't give you a work contract because it's in the Directorate at Little Wet Lug. They subsequently delivered contracts that were subsequently signed, anti-dated. We want people in Serbia who work to be safe, to have pension, social, health insurance. We want to enable employers to make more employees, to expand jobs, and to keep employees safe, safe and with a job contract. This is the kind of solution that everyone in the law has agreed to. The employees also agreed, the employers agreed, and therefore the argument of the applicant for the amendment is extremely unmistakable. That is why I call on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4715	Minister Vulin has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4716	Of course, this is the National Assembly, of course, where politicians sit and, of course, a political debate is being held, it's nothing unusual to me. But just so there's no confusion between the citizens who are watching us now and who won't have the god of how much time or patience to read the law, just to clarify. So, what's the solution? The solution is that the employer has to keep the contract where the employee works. When the labour inspector comes, he asks to be delivered to him immediately, there is no possibility of sending him to another city, he says – you know there is our headquarters. So that's clear. But what doesn't the employer have to do now? The employer does not have to give the employee paper on which he writes his application to the PIO Fund, because he e-mails it to the PIO Fund. The PIO Fund delivers this to the Central Register, the Central Register can be controlled by the employee and, most importantly, by the labour inspector, who compares and pairs these things. When we do another big thing at the Ministry that I'm leading, when we bring a social map, when we digitize our administration and our government and our employers, then we can say we won't need any single paper, but these are all steps towards reduced administration and a small number of papers. So, the worker knows he's been reported, can control the application, the labour inspector controls the application, which so far he couldn't do and his work contract is where he works. Well, that's true, now, we can observe whatever we want.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4717	Dr. Vesna Rakonjac has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4718	Dear Chairman, here I am going to try to explain what this other place means. If we carefully read the full member, then it follows, depending on the process of work that the employee performs second place. We don't need to indicate if it's a hall, a freezer, a slaughterhouse, some other drive. Thus, it is clearly understood that this place is in line with the work and process of work carried out in a work organization. So, if an employee works at the firm's headquarters contract will be at the head office, if the employee works in the directorate will be in the directorate, if the employee works in some out-of-work department, for example, schools, so it's an out-of-town department in the rural area, then it's a second place, and it's not a parent school. That means second place. Imagine how long it would take us to write down all the jobs. Now, that's a second job. The very application the employee receives from the employer does not mean that he will in the next six, seven, eight months after applying to the employee to pay all the contributions neatly. It's the jurisdiction of an inspection of the work that comes into control. It is important that the employment contract is there, in the workplace, that all the documents needed in the workplace, such as the work book, that the labour inspector can simply check whether it is from the central register, whether the conditions that the employer must meet are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4719	The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4720	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is once again surprised, so the amendment promoter did not propose that the position for which he stands – the employer is required to provide the employee with a photocopy of the application for compulsory social security no later than 15 days after the day of the employee's entry into work. If the promoter had asked that attitude to remain embedded in this article, I would have understood that. However, the promoter requested that the position to be deleted - the employer is obliged to keep the contract of work, or another contract in accordance with this law or its copy in the seat or other business room of the employer or elsewhere, depending on where the employee or working person is working. Quite a legal provision is clear. That's what the second one says, depending on where the employee, the employee, works. So it's not in another place, it's in another place where the employee works. To translate it into practice, it looks like this. If the employer is, say, "The House of Wines Zivkovic", registered as the founder of the Virgin Islands, co-founder with 50% on the Virgin Islands. If the employer is the founder of the Virgin Islands with 50% then it is illusory to ask that employees of the “Wine House Zivkovic” seek their contract or inspectors in the territory of the Virgin Islands. Without this provision, then some labour inspector would have to take the Virgin Islands to the headquarters of the founders of the company, "The House of Wine Zivkovic", since it is the founder of 50%, to ask for a contract to be delivered to him on work for Petar Petrovic, who works at "The House of Wines Zivkovic" in Krcedin. So this is almost an abnormal situation, and our inspection could not possibly have gotten hold of or obtained the contract for employee Marko Markovic, Peter Petrovic, who now works at the "Vivković House" Krcedin since he is the founder of the Virgin Islands companies and the second founder who is here on hand, that they sold it to "Agrouni".
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4721	Ambassador, please talk about the amendment, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4722	I'm talking about the amendment, but you have to understand what it means in practice. In practice this means if your founder is on the Virgin Islands that there is no such provision of the law if you delete at the request of the amendment promoter that the contract cannot be held elsewhere where the employee works. This means that we should look for a working contract for "The House of Wines of Zivkovic" in the Virgin Islands. That's why there's this provision that doesn't need to be deleted, and I'm trying not to delete it, so we don't have to go to Virgin Islands, we can control it nicely in Krcedin, not the Virgin Islands. If you understand, he asked to delete this position of the law which said that the contract could be put elsewhere depending on where the employee and the working person was working. He wants it deleted, I ask that it is not deleted, so that we do not have to go to the Virgin Islands to determine whether the person who works in "The House of Wine Zivkovic" has a working contract or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4723	Thank you for your clarification. I only understood that Zoran Zivkovic now has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4724	Thank you. Of course this is a layman's parliament, like everyone else in the world, and that people who are MPs don't have to know almost anything about the subject of the agenda, as you can see here. Namely, my amendment requires that a new member be deleted, which means he remains old, in which he remains a 15-day obligation for an employer to photocopy about social security. It's as clear as day. But it doesn't matter. It is much more important, and I would like to hear from the minister the answer, what happens if, for example, a transport company is established in Bujanovac, and that there is an engagement and a five-year contract to drive the territory of the municipality of Subotica. How does the inspector determine if there is a driver from the Bujanovac company who is currently temporarily working in Subotica, where there is no representative of the firm from Bujanovac, that he is employed? By checking where the labor contract is. Is that contract somewhere in some escort vehicle that's going behind the truck? Or, for example, an example, that may be much more reasonable to some MPs. Let's say, what if you have a meat company, and then there's a shepherd, say. That company is registered at Chukarica, and the shepherd is somewhere in Srem. It is a pasture, or field. As the inspector determines whether the shepherd is employed or not and whether his employer has reported him, whether he has a work contract or not? Is the inspector going to peek under the lead ram or is he going to look under the tree? I'd like the minister to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4725	Thank you. On the same basis as in the case Peter Petrovic was mentioned, so when a precedent is made, I have to give everyone a line, anyone named Zivkovic. Did you mention that now? The word has a folk letter from Dr. Vesna Rakonjac and you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4726	There's another law, when it comes to shepherds, and that's the Food Safety Act, where all the companies that do food production have to have so-called. ‘HACCP standard’ which implies from field to table. We'd be lucky to have a system that was supposed to come into life in 2008. Unfortunately, even today, the food safety agency has not worked out, and the huge funds have agreed to this foundation for training that national laboratory. I don't want to mention some previous period, but by that standard from field to table, all employees have to have orderly and sanitary books and work books and it's clearly defined by that standard where it should be held, where the employer puts it off, starts with work books, sanitary books and everything else. So, for every employee. I'm telling you, it's an international standard that we've accepted and entered the Food Safety Act. If you want a concrete answer to a specific question, I think I've answered you absolutely clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4727	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary of the Jellysavet the Beacon.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4728	Let me explain to my colleague, the labour law says that the contract is made in multiple copies. One of these copies is given to the employee. When it comes to drivers, there is a Traffic Safety Act, where it clearly states that every driver on the ground must have personal documentation with him, including a work contract. If he's based in Bujanovac and he's in Subotica, he'll have to have a work contract with him if by any chance the inspector stops him and controls him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4729	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4730	Once again, I will read Article 10, whose erasure was required: “The employer is obliged to keep the contract of work, or another contract in accordance with this law or their copy in the seat or other business room of the employer or elsewhere, depending on where the employee or the person employed works. “ Again, I note that this is a major promotion, and I did not mention any name, no MP, perhaps by mistake by Petar Petrovic, I apologize, but it was more hypothetical. I mentioned the names of companies that are real and not made up. I have stated how this can happen, and I will say again that it can happen that in a company that has a vineyard, which has it in several places, employees may have to go to get a contract, or labour inspector, with founders or employers. The employer may be, as has already been confirmed, in the Virgin Islands, well, then we would have to go to that wine house to go to the Virgin Islands, to take this contract of work, or inspection, so that it could make an appropriate application, minutes, etc., and everything that follows. Is the contract supposed to be Ko Krajkovac or Ko Krcedin, it's already less important. It is important that the copy or contract stand in Krajkovec, Krcedin, without standing in any way on the Virgin Islands. That was the point of my pledge to reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4731	Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4732	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. Our colleague, Vesna Martinovic, submitted an amendment asking for the following words in Article 10 after the words "copy" to be added: "as well as the original, i.e. a photocopy of the application to compulsory social security". The reason that the Government rejects this amendment, and in the debate on amendments, I will be more concerned with the arguments that the Government has submitted to us, knowing in advance that few care that the arguments are contradictory, quite proof of illiteracy and that they have been done so superficially that it represents, except that it is contrary to the regulations that in the Resolution on the legislative activity that we have all voted for, one explicit disregard for the obligations that the Government has in respect of the National Assembly. But there will be an amendment and we'll discuss it further. So the government refused to accept the amendment for reasons of being a member of 108. The draft law requires that data on mandatory social security applications can be downloaded from a single central register of compulsory social security. The amendment submitted by the colleague does not apply at all to this obligation and represents almost an insult to the MP who has made an effort to clearly write the amendment and explain it. Such an explanation demeans the desire of the MPs to exactly do a provision which, I can say, can produce very unpleasant consequences, first of all by the employee, and then by all of us who, in the event that there is no application for mandatory social security, will repeat the work we did during 2002, 2003, 2006 and 2007, by paying people what the employer failed to pay because no one controlled it. This kind of amendment and this part of the text in article 10, which was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic, is within what is here just saying that we advocate the rights and safety of workers. We will, through every amendment that we comment on, try to prove clearly that it doesn't matter what they say, but that it matters what they do. I would not like it to be shown that this amendment was necessary, because employers will do what employers already did during the 1980s, during the 1990s and after 2000, when it comes to compulsory social security of employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4733	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4734	Thank you. You see this, essentially this article actually refers to exactly one of our main laws about how to prevent abuse in terms of working on black. How do we make it difficult for our employer not to report his employee? All this stuff that my colleagues were talking about, I thought I'd already explained it, but now I wanted to share something with you that says that according to the current law it all worked out. I've now received a report from the Labour Inspectorate who had unannounced control in the area of low-building this morning. Sixty-seven employers we visited, Corridor 10, Corridor 11, a master road one, a building site of "Serb Railways", the construction site of the second track on the part of Krnjac, the bridge on Tamis, the construction site of the factory "Tiger" Pirot, etc. Nine requests have been filed for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure for non-compliance with the provisions of the Labour Act, mostly due to undeclared workers. Often no payments have been made. A one-month-to-two-year delay. So that's what happened now. Seventeen requests have been filed for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure for not applying the safety and health measures at work. We've been abandoning it all these years. We didn't take care of it enough. On one construction site, let me just give you an example, there's been a massive escape from the site because of the 30 faces, 19 didn't have the slightest paper. Now, look, it won't be possible anymore. That's why we brought these solutions. It won't be possible anymore because he'll be at the construction site, there's a place where he can keep the contract and there he can keep the contract. He didn't have it until now, and now you're watching workers run across the board because they know they're unreported. So, the very fact that the inspector will be able to get through the central register immediately to know whether you're registered or not. You are significantly reducing the possibility of abuse without the employer paying the contribution and that the worker does not know this is a particular problem that we have to solve. I stand for that solution to be a public matter. We'll see how we can work it out. You know, it's incomprehensible, say, that the PIO Fund has no idea who's paying him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4735	Minister, you've got three minutes on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4736	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4737	The word is Gordana Komic. You can spend your time with the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4738	The theme addressed by the minister is that it requires a little more time to be used to contribute to the amendment tabled by the MP. That's all the minister talks about, not even under this law. Sometimes I don't know if the ministers here are bragging or complaining. Who stopped anyone in two-and-a-half years last to actually do a labor inspection? Who prevented anyone from going around the construction site yesterday, not today when the minister defends the provisions of this law? Who stopped anyone from getting money from the budget in the executive government from doing their job? The opposition? Lack of money? It wasn't paid? No people? I think that the overly serious issues of the provisions in this law could be allowed, without notice, to act as a representative of the government as if the opposition who, here by chance yesterday had begun to deal with work, employment and gender equality, and here he has now found that workers in Serbia have not been reported. They weren't reported three months ago, not six months ago, not a year ago, not 20 months ago. If you're trying to say that you are unable to do the job of the minister, I will challenge you because the minister needs to show his ability through questions asked by MPs, asking to determine what he is responsible for, and all those topics that remain unclear whether you boast or complain that the system for which you are responsible is not working, you don't have to. You can, of course, legitimately, lie and embellish your own provisions, it's perfectly legitimate, everyone would do it, but it's not legitimate to try to present a provision in a law that exists as a provision that changes and delivers a message that when the amendment of Vesna Martinović and a new solution is rejected, that all workers will be registered, that all inspectors will start doing their job. A little respect for reality and a little respect for the National Assembly would not hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4739	The word is Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4740	Thank you, Chairman. I think I understand the minister well. No one made it impossible for inspections to be carried out, but it was difficult under the previous law because the employer could hold contracts wherever he wanted and wherever he wanted, so such contracts were anti-dated, delivered after a week, after a month, so it was a problem, not that any of the inspection bodies worked properly their work. The other thing is, black workers aren't made-up categories in the last 20 months, they've been in the last 15 years. Therefore, that is the problem, we need to deal with the reason why workers started working on black and staying in the gray zone and fearing their employers. We need to deal with who led to that. Therefore, these new legal provisions facilitate the work of inspection bodies, and I've also listened well to the minister, so I realized that this inspection surveillance, so if we know how inspection surveillance is done, it can't be done this morning from seven o'clock to 13 o'clock, but it's a continuous process that was done in some previous period, a month or two ago, and that what the minister has now received are analyses of the work of inspection bodies on the ground after inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4741	The word is "Zarko Micin." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4742	The Honorable President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, this amendment is unacceptable and I would also refer to my colleague and I would like to say what it was that prevented us. Of course, we were prevented by the bad Labour Act, but now after 12 years, someone who had the courage to pass one as good law as we now have, I can say that these changes protect workers' rights by facilitating the work of the Labour Inspectorate, as the colleague said and preventing the abuses that employers had done in such a way that after the inspection work was carried out, because the employment contract was not in the workplace or in the employer's seat supplying anti-dated contracts, and we really had a lot of work on black. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4743	Thank you. The word has Gordana Komic, group time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4744	Thank you. It's important, because it's about living people, and here they're easy to tell the truth and they have very firm opinions without knowing the facts. So, in addition to the amendment by Vesna Martinovic to have a mandatory application for compulsory social security, I will only share the facts that led to such an amendment, which is that from 2001 to 2003, 340 000 employees were employed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, by the decision of this Assembly paid contributions because they were not paid from 1982 to 2000, because they worked black, because the employer did not pay. For another 54 thousand workers, it was done because the employer didn't pay either. There are now 67,000 workers in Serbia who have not paid their contributions and who do not have or have only after the interventions, social security. It is very good to be approached by the infallibility of the minister and it is perfectly legitimate to support the government that you consider the best possible, but reality can bite and be careful when they express themselves with easy views that are not in any way related to facts. Working on black is a common problem, and the amendment proposed makes it easier for the government, which even Vesna Martinovic and I do not support, to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4745	The word is Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4746	The Honorable Chairman, in addition to the words of the facts, we have not heard one fact in particular, and the fact that from 1982 to 2000 contributions have not been paid is a matter for another time, for another government and for another government. We know that the contributions in 2000 and 2001 were paid, but unfortunately from the loans that have now come on the charge, so we have the situation and the debt that we have. They repeat once again that our citizens are not mistaken. Thus, the application itself and the existence of the application does not mean that he was employed and paid contributions in the next period. They can clearly be seen from the register and can also be done by employees, and can be an inspection of the work. So, just the existence of the application doesn't mean that the employer will make contributions later on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4747	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Peranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4748	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Minister, I believe that, like my previous colleagues, this amendment should not be accepted. Why? We are witnessing that for the past 12 years and more in the country of Serbia, many workers have been black or worked in the gray zone. To remind you of how many thousands of workers have been fired for only the last seven, eight years. This law will make it all right. The point of the story is that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the ministry, wants this law to introduce all companies and all workers into legal flows. We don't want any more black workers, grey workers getting fired overnight, because when you're registered, there's one procedure that's regulated by some other members. In the end, the point is that our workers are working and earning wages and we have to avoid more than one fact, and we mention it multiple times, workers don't get paid, but they need to earn it fairly in their jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4749	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaže Bradić. The government and the Committee on Social Affairs, Social inclusion and poverty reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word wants Dr Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4750	Thank you, Madam Chairman. After this broad discussion, since the amendment applies to the same member and to Mr. Minister's elaborated, I think he will agree to accept our amendment. The amendment refers to Article 35, which reads: ‘The employer is obliged to keep the contract of work, or another contract in accordance with this law or copy thereof, in the seat or other business room of the employer or elsewhere, depending on where the person employed works’. We propose adding Article 2 which will read: "The employer is obliged to provide the employee with a photocopy of the application to compulsory social security no later than 15 days from the day of the employee's entry." The legislator wanted to facilitate this member's control of labour inspection and inspection services, by taking his work contract along with his employee. What is the problem, which so far has been governed by the controversy, the contract on working and working on black, the work in the gray zone refers to the attitude towards the state and to the payment of taxes and contributions. The labor contract as a work contract means that someone has made a relationship with someone, that they will be paid for their work and all those people who work in black and in the gray zone they have a salary. They don't work without pay. The problem is that taxes and contributions are not paid. Taxes and contributions are paid when a contract on work is signed which is not mandatory but is a legal basis for a taxpayer to apply to the tax administration, where tax payments go, social and pension contributions. The form I think is called M1 and its photocopy, which is given to the worker, is a guarantee that the owner of the capital, the owner of the company, whatever you call it, has reported to that worker that, apart from the pay, he has a paid job and has paid social services. What you say won't be seen if the employer doesn't pay, it'll be seen after three months when he doesn't get a stamp from the Health Fund. So, for three months, books are certified, and if taxes and contributions are not paid for the registered worker, then no stamps are obtained and the worker knows that he is not registered. If you want to facilitate control of the inspectors, tell the inspectors that before going to the field and controlling a company take a list of registered tephyrm workers and only needs a person's ID card on the site, he doesn't need a contract, because the document will see whether he's registered or not. The problem is that the state wants to introduce regular flows of normal flows, which is paying taxes and contributions. If the worker isn't sure he's registered to mandatory social and pension insurance and if no taxes are paid, he's gonna have to... What was I gonna say?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4751	Are you done?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4752	No, I don't. He's not sure that without that photocopy, which we're proposing to give him an employer, he's registered to social and pension insurance. The idea of our amendment is that the worker has legal certainty and that he gets the paper to believe he's been reported. On the one hand, the minister proposes a way to facilitate the work of inspectors, and we only suggest that the worker has confirmation that, in addition to the contract and the salary he will receive for his work, he is registered to social and pension insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4753	Thank you. The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic came forward. You've got 55 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4754	As part of the debate on labour rights under this law, I noticed that police officers who are not an integral part of this parliament's weapons security are in parliament's entry hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4755	Don't talk about the amendment. I'm taking your word. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I think this is important information. Who does not feel safe in this House when you have... ) Do not disturb the course of the debate. I gave you my word on the amendment and you abused it. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I ask who invited them? You said you wanted to speak according to the amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I ask who invited them? There's 50 cops. I ask you to answer the question of who invited them. You're not in transmission at all. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Why are the officers standing at the entrance? ) Study the law. You know what reporting from the bench means. Sit down, please. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I'm just asking you to give me an answer. Don't yell. I gave one warning. You've held a press conference seven times for a warning. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Do it again.) Again? That's cute. I won't give you a warning. You won't challenge me today. Sit down, please. Be parliamentary and take your place. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branika Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaže Bradić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4756	Thank you, Madam President. The proposal for a law provides that Article 36(1) reads: ‘The labour contract may contract a trial work to carry out one or more related, or related transactions established by the labour contract’. We have put on an amendment that we propose to amend this point 1 and that it reads: "The labour contract can arrange a trial work to carry out the jobs for which the labour contract is concluded". The proposed change foresees that trial work can only be agreed on for those jobs for which the labour contract is concluded. If the draft law provides for a solution that can apply to a number of related or related transactions, this would mean that a person who is on probation must do more work than a person who is not on probation and who is in the same place of work. The person on probation should show a higher degree of work and expertise, since he has to do more work. In addition, a broad and general defined circle of work that can be negotiated by probationary work creates legal uncertainty and opens up the possibility of abuse in terms of evaluation and dismissal. In this respect, it is also proposed to amend Article 4 to establish the working and professional capabilities to be demonstrated during the test work. The government rejected this amendment with a reason not to accept it because the solution in the draft law is more adequate and adapted to the needs of practice. I say this explanation is such an insult and so vaguely offensive to us MPs who have submitted the amendment and cannot accept it. There are lawyers among us who have 30 years of practice. I also worked in the authorities of local self-government, I worked as a lawyer, and I registered entrepreneurs and businesses, and I did all their legal work, including from the field of work. My husband is an entrepreneur who has ten employees on occasion. So I am quite familiar with this matter. Such a solution from the draft law would be more adequate only for unwitting employers who can contract trial work and move a probationary worker from work to work, although these are not jobs that employees normally need to carry out under a labour contract. So, for example. a graduate lawyer may refer to work both on the counter or in the reception department, to acquire a practice he absolutely does not need, which has been the case in practice that I can testify to myself. This can be a mobing with a test work cover, and in case the employee is opposed to the trial work, the employer will always have an excuse that the employee did not show adequate ability and to fire him. In doing so, there is no way to determine what the relevant work and skills are. The amendment proposed that the regulation determine what appropriate actions and professional skills are, in order to prevent the employer from using the authority to resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4757	Thank you. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4758	My amendment proposes that Article 12 be deleted because of an existing Article 37. The labour law does not change and should not be changed in the proposed way. The employee working with the employer for a certain period of time has been forced, as you know, to suffer the most diverse blackmail and violation of his labour rights by the employer, in the hope that he will conclude with the employer a contract of work indefinitely, in cases where it comes to dealings with which such possibility is provided or that the employer with him will renew a work contract for a certain period of time. As you know, this is a very common situation. The employee is thus kept in constant fear, and the form of work at a certain time becomes a means of manipulation of the employer, which would especially allow for the extension of the maximum duration of work to a specified time for the proposed two years. The proposed drastic changes in the forms of working relationship for a certain period of time, the government proposed its proposal to justify compliance with Council Directive 99/70E3. The cited directive contains completely different terms of regulation of this form of working relationship, with a completely different intention of the legislator. If the aim of this derogation is to attract foreign or new investments, we believe that the same goal is achieved by amending other rules concerning taxes and contributions to profits and the like. This change additionally burdens employees and encourages the abuse of work for a certain period of time by the employer, while the state budget is uninterruptedly charged. Employees working on a fixed time basis, with low-level business banks, as you know, conditionally speaking, because it is considered creditworthy, cannot get and benefit checks, has no right to use the allowed minus and anything that allows Serbian citizens to survive 30 days and more during this difficult economic situation. On the side that working for a certain time can only be an exception to the rules, not a rule, a work that is temporary for some objective reason, as Directive 90/70 is seen in terms of terms and essence. Also, your proposed amendment foresees, the change in the prime minister, that an unemployed employer who, until one of the conditions for the exercise of age pension rights, is missing for up to five years, can conclude a contract of work for a certain period of no longer than five years. This primarily creates clear discrimination against the age of an unemployed person or person who is employed, a person who is missing another five years of retirement, i.e. If he's about 60 years old, he's enough in a dramatic life situation, but he's an unemployed person at that age. This additionally burdens him with an uncertain working relationship, even if some employer has a need for this person's work, and wants to hire him. In many ways, we find this proposed attitude a little bit like a laptop, if you want me to be completely honest. I believe that according to the directive, the employer is obliged to hire employees for a certain period of time on jobs, in order to ensure them the same opportunities for obtaining a working relationship indefinitely, as well as for other employees. The proposed amendment does not even contain this employer's obligation. So we think that this member absolutely needs to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4759	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4760	Thank you. I thank the applicant for the amendment. Of course, each of us understands what we would all like and what we can do. It would be very nice if we were all employed indefinitely. We're also trying to make this a practice, and we're trying to make an exception for a certain time, but that's how it is. There is no law on the planet of a country that has an obligation to work indefinitely. It doesn't exist anywhere and, unfortunately, or fortunately, it won't exist in Serbia either. What's the idea, why did we do this? So far, as you know, each of us in our own lives and in each ministry, and also in the ministries that once led representatives of some other political parties could now find a few examples of people working for a certain time today and every year or as many days as they've had, so a contract is concluded again and forever. You have examples of decades of work. Now it's been determined that something like that can happen up to 24 months and a point, except for these exceptions, and you'll admit, to one who's five years old until retirement, I don't think he's sad if someone takes him in for a while until he retires. I don't think that's why he's gonna lose, but nothing at all. I think it's a very good measure and it's good for him. You have an exception when working on projects, and you can't limit projects. You need them as long as you need them. It's very important and good again. It is for the most educated people in Serbia, who are working in a different way and doing business. In this way, we have stopped exactly this abuse and this particular blackmail of workers at a certain time, where as the contract expires – you stop, so maybe you extend, maybe you don't extend. Now you've got 24 months maximum, either you'll extend or you won't extend. It would be nice if we could all work indefinitely. Unfortunately, it is not possible to comply with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4761	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4762	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I find it absolutely unacceptable this way to suggest an amendment to Article 12. The adoption of this amendment would directly undermine the essence of Article 12, which amends Article 37 of the current law. The essence of this article is precisely to regulate the area of work contracts for a specified period of time, i.e. the area of work for a specified period of time. This is precisely what prevents abuses in terms of extending work contracts to a certain time indefinitely, which we have had opportunities to look at in different ways so far. In what way is this possibility prevented? By saying – the employer can conclude one or more working contracts based on which working with the same employee is based for a period which, with interruptions or without interruptions, cannot be longer than 24 months. Then, taxing is listed in which exceptional cases may occur, again I say, in an exceptional case, new moments. When you look at things like that, you see that this is one really specific benefit for workers and employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4763	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4764	I propose that this amendment be rejected and I re-use arguments of the best interests of the workers themselves. The legislative solution proposed, in a manner delivered by the Government in Article 12 with proposals to amend Article 37 of the existing law, is precisely a series of mechanisms that meet the needs of workers. Working for a certain time is really something that we would all like, if possible, to turn our hands into work indefinitely and make any other possible concessions, to ensure the status of every employee in this country in the best possible way, and that will tell you anyone here. Let's take a look at the practice. There's a need to work for a certain time, it's nothing new. I'm not saying anything anyone here doesn't already know. When a practice is introduced that we can put this work to work for 24 months, is it in the interests of workers? Of course it is. Is it more security, better confidence for a worker if he knows he'll be working for two years, or when he's only been safe for a year? Of course it is. Will tomorrow at the bank someone who is financially secured for two years be better off than now that he's secured for 12 months? Of course he will. These are all reasons why the solution proposed by the government should be kept rather than rejected. Not just that. A chance to make a deal for a certain time with a man who's five years away from retirement. The practice itself tells us how difficult it is to hire this man today, in general, and how good it is to give the employer an opportunity to regulate that status, to regulate that relationship, so that it is acceptable for the employer. By the way, someone's gonna get a job tomorrow, someone who's gonna be up to retirement. It is also not the end, with the possibility of allowing work for a certain period of up to 36 months for start-ups, the companies where business uncertainty is the largest are directly stimulated by start-ups, companies where business uncertainty is the largest, to still employ. This, again, provides an opportunity to hire someone. It is only in the best interests of our workers and our people currently unscheduled on the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4765	The word is made by the People's Messenger Zoran Jozic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4766	Of course, I will not support this amendment for the simple reason that it puts workers in a more unfavourable position than a member who is scheduled for new amendments to the Labour Act. What's he really doing here? It certainly is not good when workers in Serbia can work for a certain time for two years, four years or I don't know how many. But what's the problem? In fact, so far, workers in Serbia have worked for so long, and for no valid reason, because employers every year, six months or three months have found reasons to cancel their work contract and to change it into a new working contract for a certain period of time. These amendments allow maximum time to be spent on the job for 24 months, which is very good. By erasing this member, we'd be in a situation where what's important and important, when we get into a situation where someone goes on a period of more than 12 months, to get sick, then we have a problem with his replacement. This member of the law defines the right to receive a new worker until the return of a worker who has gone to sick leave. I understand the opposition is trying to be constructive. I hope that this will be the case in the next period, as well as that it brings constructive solutions that will be of interest to all citizens of Serbia. We need to understand that this member of the Law, which was predicted by the Proposer, puts workers in a more unfavourable position and that is something that is not good, which is something that Serbian citizens need to know. Something symptomatic, very often we come to the opportunity to see these amendments – deleted, deleted, deleted, and I don't think that's good and not based on a good analysis, which is certainly necessary for the general well-being of citizens and employees in Serbia. This is in the spirit of that erasure that was most pronounced between 2008 and 2012 when we reached a record rate of 14.40% of our unemployment rate of 26.1%). We know who managed this country during that period. I ask that, if there are opportunities, what is good for workers, what is good for the citizens of Serbia in the coming period, we try to bring and try to make good proposals, both the government and the opposition. Once again, I will not and cannot support this proposal, this amendment, and for the benefit of employees in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4767	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4768	So I find the amendment unacceptable, that is, to erase this amendment to the law. The bill's amendment provides that the conclusion of a fixed-term contract can be made for 24 months, and under certain conditions it can also be for 36 months. I would refer to what the previous provision of the law predicted. She predicted that a working relationship could be concluded for a period of 12 months and only allowed in certain situations, whether it was an increase in the volume of work, work on a specific project and other conditions. I believe that this provision was extremely not flexible, both for the employee and for the employer, because it violates the freedom to negotiate employers and workers and has referred employers to wider employment for an indefinite period of time, as unfavourable for the new employee, i.e. for new employment. Also, what was happening in practice by applying this old provision? It happened that after 12 months, the working relationship was interrupted and based on another basis. There was a number of employers who decided not to hire new workers. The workers continued to work without a work contract. So they happen to work on black, as well as a number of other unfavourable things, which directly reduce or threaten workers' rights and increase unemployment. The amendment to this provision will avoid the shortcomings I mentioned, and will positively affect investors to employ new people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4769	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4770	In the beginning, I must say that this proposal, one of the most interesting and important solutions in these amendments and additions to the Labour Act, is deleted. First, it is a clear sign that whoever submitted such an amendment, that such a significant item was deleted, shows his senselessness and inadequacy of his views, and since most of the party, who submitted this amendment, was in power for 12 years, and literally cooked us a stew that we all have to try today, no matter how bitter that stew was. This amendment is not acceptable, because the fact is that in the field of labour law there is a phenomenon that people are employed for a certain time and that they have been working for a certain period of time, even five, six, even ten years. That's the example and my smallness, because I worked for a certain age for three years, so no one was worried about it, and no one from the Democratic Party was worried about whether someone was going to carry out a laptop on the workers...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4771	Please, Mr. Todorovic, the amendment is to Article 12, which was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. Do not speak by amendment
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4772	I'm talking about an amendment that tried to erase the solution not to allow an extension of work for a certain time. So, I'm talking about examples that have existed so far, that exist and now it's not hard to go to any work organization. Even here in the Assembly there are examples and I advise people from the Democratic Party to ask if any of the workers here in the Assembly have been working for several years on a specific, perhaps working day today. So the proposed solution is an attempt to overcome a very bad situation, the situation that by extending the deadline for establishing a working relationship to a certain time from 12 to 24 months, trying to force employers to comply with the strict provisions of the law, and that there is no longer, as it has been, that it can be done for 12 months, so it is interrupted for several days, so it is done again for a certain period of time. Normally, a 24-month deadline will be able to be respected only with co-ordinated action and great urgency of labour inspection, which also, to this day, or to these latest changes in the area has not shown great activity. So, I would like to save the words that were used just now, in explaining this amendment proposal, that this is an attempt to implement a laptop on workers -- not gentlemen, or comrades from the Democratic Party, this is just an attempt to help the workers. I thank you for your concern and thank you for your existence as it is, for making your contribution in such a constructive way as to delete one of the provisions of these amendments and the addition of the Law, which is precisely in the interests of the workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4773	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. The word is by amendment, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4774	Let me try to explain to my colleagues, among whom there are some who don't read at all what they're talking about. So, we are just trying to protect the rights of workers and we are trying to implement the directive as it says, and she says that it is better for newly established employers to start a relationship with a 36-month employee, without giving reasons for the need for such a form of engagement or work. It is completely unclear why the promoter introduced this case of deviation from the general rule that working for a certain period of time can take the longest 24 months. Why didn't you put in line with what he said, 36 months ago? That's what we're trying to explain. You don't know what you're calling for anymore. So neither do you call upon what you write about, and what is worst in this whole situation, that irony is unnecessary, if this law and if this amendment that I have proposed is not in line with the workers, with their interest, with their rights, with their protection, I call upon you, personally and with the minister, to go together now to address the workers, so that you tell them that these amendments are bad, and that your law is excellent. Here, I think it would be very useful and nice to hear that they're calling us out front to get us out. I'll definitely get out, and I'm calling you as a proven socialist from the Socialist Movement to protect the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4775	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. Don't speak to another MP. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4776	Dear Chairman, this is evidence of hypocrisy. Someone suggests we delete a member who improves the rights of workers and suggests that it remains old, to be for 12 months. It's incomprehensible. This is where he tells us - that you haven't put in 36 months. To make it clear to people, because you can say a lot to media manipulations and spins and it's supposed to be true. With this article after 24 months, you have to start a working relationship indefinitely, and that's a great advantage compared to what we had before, where you had 12 months, so it can interrupt you and again with various manipulations to extend that work to a certain one. This improves, even increases employment in some ways. You certainly have someone who'll be working for two years. For a year, he'll definitely get paid, and he doesn't have to shake if he gets fired, and if he stays for two years he'll definitely get a job indefinitely. I don't know why anyone would erase this unless it's destructive by itself. As for the people who are outside, I invite you, you know how many unions have supported this labour law, so I invite you to address these workers, not just those who fight for their privileges. I mean the union leaders that you've made all kinds of different variations with and with which you're trying to put this kind of pressure. We can show up in front of them and talk to them, and we'll always talk to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4777	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4778	Thank you, Your Honor. It's a shame what you just said. Here, I invite Borko Stefanovic to go out to the public together and see what he tells you, Mr Stefanovic, about everything you've done in 12 years in Serbia. How can you not be ashamed? You've left 400,000 people out of work and now you're saying we can't go out in front of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4779	Mr. Jovic, please. You don't have a microphone on. You need to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4780	Mr. Stefanovic, I hold in my hands...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4781	Do not speak directly to Ambassador Stefanovic, but to me. You know the drill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4782	I am speaking to the citizens of Serbia and I want to remind them of what the newly elected DS President has said...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4783	Mr. Jovic, you can't say that. Yesterday we made a deal with the heads of Parliament. It can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4784	I will rephrase my answer, if you will, given that you did not warn Mr Stefanovic, who said we did not have the courage to go out to the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4785	Ambassador, the rules apply to everyone. As you know, I wasn't the chairman. I'll tell Igor Becic, but I think he heard you. The note is Mr Stefanovic, not as a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4786	We'll talk about the amendment. You can't say we don't want to adopt the amendment. Based on the 2001 statements by Bojan Pajtic, where he said – unless the Labour, Privatisation, Reform Act is adopted...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4787	This isn't a replica. I'm sorry, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4788	... which are necessary, Serbia will fail. How can you not be ashamed?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4789	Ambassador, you cannot use the word – shame, that someone is not ashamed. Please, I'm trying to take this situation seriously. All, both workers and citizens of Serbia expect to discuss amendments and the law in an extremely serious way. The word is a folk letter from Gordana Komic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4790	I wanted to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I gave up, given that the chairman, Igor Becic, and the president of the National Assembly, are consistently implementing the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that prohibit the not knowing of the Rules of Procedure and that they are taking care of the order. I'm sorry, since I've only raised my hand to say this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4791	It's your right. Otherwise, because of Serbian citizens, as you said, MP Stefanovic was warned because of what he said, which he called for to go out. Vice President Becic claims to me and I trust him. Not a warning as a punishment, but as I warn the messengers of communication. It's just for the citizens. The word has been made by the MP, Dr Janko Veselinović, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4792	Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. The chairman, therefore, you have warned the previous speaker several times, but he has said everything he has planned, spoken and sat in his place without punishment, and yesterday, in the same case, the chairman gave notice and punished MP Mark Djurisic. So you don't have the same criteria. You didn't listen to me. So the MP said everything he intended, I'm talking about Article 107 that the speaker at the session is obliged to speak about the agenda item on the agenda. He said everything he planned, the way he planned, you didn't give him a warning, you didn't punish him for it even though it was yesterday, you won't punish anyone, so then this will turn into anarchy. Yesterday, a colleague sitting next to you punished MP Marko Djurisic. You can't say you won't punish anyone, because that's why the president is in violation of this Rules of Procedure. You are obliged to punish and take away the word of the People's Messengers who insult the dignity of the National Assembly, speak besides the Rules of Procedure, etc. So you can't say that you won't apply the highest act of this assembly, and that's how you allow the Assembly to work in anarchy. You've invited the heads of parliament to take care of the order in the assembly, so then we don't need the president, sorry, then they can change at the place where you're sitting.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4793	My dear MP, first you give a warning, and then there's a more drastic punishment, but I didn't say I wasn't going to apply the Rules of Procedure, but today I'm going to try not to give a warning. I think there is a tendency with a number of MPs, I'm not saying who, or anything, that today's session is going the other way and that we are making warnings and drastic measures and that we are going to spoil the good tone of how one serious debate started, and I am asking you to get back to the debate, because Serbian citizens expect us to do this, not to talk about the injuries of the Rules of Procedures that we're going to turn into replicas. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Dear colleague, please only about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Such a deal was made yesterday with all the heads of parliament and with the parliamentary group the largest.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4794	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. I'd like to ask the chairman to treat the arches the same way. You warned Mr. Stefanovic, but you didn't take his word. You warned me and took away my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4795	I wasn't the chairman, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4796	I'm right. I'd like to explain this breach to the Rules of Procedure in two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4797	Yes, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4798	It is really inadmissible that Mr. Stefanovic after all, after 15 years of privatisation and work and robbery in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4799	I am subtracting the time of the parliamentary group two minutes from the total time because you are now abusing the institution of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4800	Mr. Stefanovic, why don't you and I go outside to the public and give them this Bojan Pajtic report to see what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia say.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4801	I take away your word, it's my right. Let me tell you right now, yesterday I told the heads of Parliament that I would apply a two-minute suspension measure for the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, no matter who it was. They agreed I could take two minutes. After all, the Rules of Procedure say so. As many as he has. Dude, that's the election results. There's nothing I can do about it. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blažja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4802	Thank you, Madam President. The draft law provides for the amendment of Article 37 of the basic text of the law which is valid and which regulates the working relationship for a specified period of time. We have tabled an amendment proposing a different text of this article. With the proposed change, we tax the cases in which it is possible to base a working relationship on working time, since this type of working relationship should be an exception to the rule that working relationship is based on indefinitely, because it does not provide such a degree of safety and certainty in the lives of individuals and employees. However, in some cases, it is essential that the working relationship lasts for a certain period of time, and these cases should be detailed in the law, i.e. The general formulation does not need to create a legal framework for situations which are an exception to the rules, because they open up great opportunities for abuses. Some of the proposed amendments aim to meet the requirements of employers by respecting their need to be time-limited in certain situations or with regard to certain categories of workers. With regard to persons in employment who are more difficult to start for the first time, the proposed solutions can contribute greatly to their employment. The proposed change also stipulates that the working relationship at a certain time becomes a working relationship indefinitely if the employee remains to work with the employer at the end of the contract for a specified time. It is not clear how the Government can state that the bill they have given contains a more favourable solution, as the government considers the proposed amendment work to be extended for a certain period of time without any restrictions. Our amendment aims to specify precisely cases where work can be based on a certain time, because the draft law defines work at a certain time is so broad and allows the employer to abuse this institute and employ for a certain time more than objective needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4803	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. You have 50 seconds left from the MP's time. You have 10 minutes from the time of your authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4804	I'll use the time of the authorized representative. Very briefly, I would like to further explain what my colleague Koraq said. With this amendment, he generally, as well as most of our amendments, took place or emerged from what workers through objections to this law indicated, their fear that working for a certain time would become a rule and their concern that their uncertainty would become greater. Of course, we understand the desire of employers that whenever they want to fire workers, whenever they consider that they will need to increase profits by having less labour, which they will pay less, to do so. In this sense, we understand the support that first reached this law by Mr. Miskovic, or "Delta Holding". So he has a goal of paying as little as possible and making as much money as possible. Of course, his capital wouldn't have been so big if he hadn't acted that way, and that's how all the other big businessmen behave, or, as they don't pesoriously call them, tycoons. But it does not prevent us from trying to change Mr. Miskovic and Delta. Unfortunately, we have no success in that, Minister, because, like this amendment, you have not accepted any other amendments. The New Democratic Party's parliamentary group will vote against this law because we think it is very harmful for workers. So, specifically this amendment was meant to only specify, and in the broadest possible way, when a working relationship is based on a certain time, because of our concern that work for a certain time becomes a dominant category, and work for an indefinite period of time an exception. Our wish was to specify it, and we don't know why you didn't accept this amendment, because it wasn't directed against working for a certain time, it was just to specify precisely when it was based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4805	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4806	Madam President, Article 107. - The MP is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The lie, it was a lie that we sought the support of Miroslav Miskovic and Delta for this law. It is also a lie that we needed such support, but it is true that you were Miroslav Miskovic, when you exercised power, you made laws to suit him, you made laws to become richer, you made laws to grow larger, you made laws to become the master of Serbia. The truth is that only the Serbian Progressive Party could have such a man, and you whispered his name with a whisper, to put on the indictee's bench. We're not asking for the support of individuals, we're looking for the Union of Employers, we're looking for union support, we're looking for the support of those people you left without a job in the ground, in agreement with the tycoons you're now honoring. It is a shame to say such things in the National Assembly, it is a shame not to interrupt someone who does not speak the truth in this National Assembly and who abuses and the Constitution guarantees the right to speak from this pay phone. Those who wronged the law were in the period when you exercised power, Mr. Vesenovic, respected members of the community. In the time of the SNS, such people who break laws go to the defendant's bench, no matter how big and strong they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4807	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm trying really hard to run a session so I'm not making a big reaction to anyone. Too heavy words are spoken, I accept. You responded through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You want me to agree? Thank you. The word has a minister, Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4808	Thank you. I think we've spent enough time explaining that this proposal that we've made prevents the extension of work for a certain period of time. It's a maximum of 24 months, and after that, you'll either hire him or you won't hire him for a certain period of time. There are a number of exceptions as there are from every rule, that I don't speak now, from retirement, from a new employer, from a project, etc. So that's more than clear. But I can't help but think that we're dealing with politics here, we're not essentially dealing with the law. I am simply shocked that any of the factions of the Democratic Party can now say the name Miroslav Miskovic. That wasn't allowed once. It's a great democratisation in our society. There used to be a lot of pies talking about that man. Two years ago he also met the prison, probably during the government of some of the Democratic Party factions, but met the prison for the things he did during the Democratic Party's power faction. So, Miroslav Miskovic, or "Delta", if she supported this bill, I am perfectly and very pleased to support all the laws she will support, but I just can't understand where suddenly so much disgust towards today's comrades, and even more where so much disgust towards anyone who employs someone or something in this country. You could have listed representatives of the European Chamber of Commerce. Well, they've backed the law, too. It's probably an ugly word, too. With this legal solution, this amendment prevents us from continuing to work for a certain period of time and we're trying to get as many people as possible indefinitely. Of course, that's our intensity. But let me say it again, for reason of common sense, if for no other reason, you can't order anyone to hire someone indefinitely or indefinitely, it's simply not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4809	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question of working for a certain time is the area most affected by the applicable law. Often, employers used this opportunity to employ someone for 30 days, 60 days, not to make payments, to return his work book and say that his engagement was no longer necessary. When the story of the Labour Law is constantly running and everything this law has to solve, that it may have been better before, I haven't noticed that the previous laws have protected so many people who have lost their jobs. So, you can put in law provisions whatever you want, try to protect the rights of workers, but give the possibility, precisely because of these same workers, that their rights are not abused, as was the case so far, especially when it comes to working for a certain time. There were not only abuses in private employers, there were often abuses in the public sector as well. Don't let me talk about it, and those who were all hired here. Let's think about it. So the best protection for the worker and his rights is a low number of unemployed. We have to get off the dead end once, get a lot of unemployed people down. When we start to reduce, and they're shrinking by these very provisions that are now in the law, we're increasing employees' rights. Then he's not gonna fire a good worker's employer because his bad worker is much cheaper than he's gonna keep him safe. When the labour market is without a large labour supply, we protect employees' rights. This law, i.e. amendments and additions to the law, is exactly the first step. Of course, this law and this article in 37 can't do everything expected of them, so other laws come to work, but in one sense, in the country's legal system we need to create legislation to just start things off from a dead end. If you think it's possible to make an ideal law, to distract employers from hiring people and to give employees such a degree that they are literally under absolute protection of the law, no matter what they do at work or don't do, and they should work, then we're on the wrong track. So this matter of working for a certain time is nothing more than for employees from the gray zone, from various legal and illegal acrobatics to be introduced into the legal framework, to exercise their rights as employees and to begin to reduce the official and unofficial number of unemployed. As we reduce it, the rights of employees will be strengthened on their own and then there will be no need for any experimental, system-based laws to introduce into our legislative framework. This law, i.e. amendments and additions, is the first step towards this. That's why I think the law is good and that in the day of the vote we're going to pass this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4811	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4812	You're giving me a replica of the Minister's presentation?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4813	How to present the Minister of Replica? He answered the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4814	No, he said that Mr...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4815	I can give you your time to waste.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4816	I don't think it's right. Mr. Minister said Mr. Miskovic was rich in our time, etc. I think you have reason to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4817	What time is yours? You're the New Democratic Party, you were born a few months ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4818	It's not very funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4819	Indeed, I need to see where any MPs or MP groups have been identified. I can't give you a replica if the public can't recognize you. Do you want to talk about the amendment, about wasting time? I'll give it back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4820	Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4821	As head, or deputy head of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4822	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4823	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4824	Chairman, I don't think your investment in the opposition structure's analysis is the most important and important. As I could deal with the fact that we now had two different discussions of the ruling coalition MPs, namely from the same party, Mr. Arsic, which I could agree with or disagree with, but we could discuss, and Mr. Babic, who yelled at me, and the minister who spoke falsely. Mr. Secretary, Mr....
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4825	Do you speak by amendment? We have to define.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4826	Yeah, I'm talking about a specific...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4827	Then don't mention any other MPs and if anyone speaks softly or loudly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4828	I didn't say that either.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4829	Because if we need to talk about yelling, I should be the most hurt here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4830	I'm wasting my time with the MPs' group. I'll answer to the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4831	You know what I said – two minutes to everyone, the ruling majority, if they abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4832	What, two minutes? I'm saying I'm wasting my time on a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4833	Your Honor, I'm very well following the debate here. So you started talking not about the amendment but about one fellow MP. Here, we'll give you all your time back, if you talk about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4834	Yeah. So, we asked this amendment to specify work for a certain period of time in a way that the working time should be an exception, and to an indefinite rule. And we said that this attitude of any employer, including Mr. Miskovic, who first supported this law, means nothing to us. A mouse who got rich in your time, Mr. Vulin. Who sits with your prime minister and clear politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4835	Your Honor, I really do ask you, your MP group has initiated a meeting yesterday to pay attention to the way we speak and whether we respect the Rules of Procedure or not. I'm really not going to beg anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4836	I call upon the minister to, given this...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4837	You're insulting me. Defend yourself from insult by insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4838	I didn't insult anyone. I call on the minister to reconsider all these circumstances that I have spoken of and to accept this amendment, and to consider the other amendments, to accept them. Because it is better to accept amendments to the opposition that correct this bad law than to have problems in the next period of exploitation of workers who will be a simple rental force. We didn't bring these people together in front of the Parliament, you did, Mr. Wallin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4839	Thank you. Replica, Zoran Babic, two minutes. That's exactly what I wanted to stop. You challenge the replica and then you wonder how the replica is? Well, what did you say? That he was yelling at you. Here you go. You know it's not the replica on the replica, it's the exposure. I'd really like to ask you when we have a little break for everyone to read the Rules of Procedure from page one to page one. I'm really asking all the MPs. Here you go, two minutes of replica. I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4840	I'll be very brief. During the period of the DS rule of any faction, as Mr. Vulin said, they called Serbia "Deltalend" because the laws were made... . (Janko Veselinović, from the place: Is this the topic now? )......................................................................................................... . So the tycoons can get rich, privatize. The tycoons and the same Miškovic, Mr. Veselinovic, have filed charges and arrested people and ordered and opened the door with their feet, both in the government and in the ministries, and with your prime minister. At a time when you exercised power in this country, the name Miškovic was spoken with a whisper, with respect, with attention. His opinion was requested, but his opinion was not an opinion but an order for you and the DS regime and DS aggregates. Do not honor us, do not honor SNS and Aleksandra Vukic. The only co-operation with those who have violated the law is through the prosecution, through the court, through the judicial authorities. We have asked for the opinion of all employers in Serbia, and we will ask for it. We've asked for the opinion of all the unions and we'll ask for it. We asked for the opinion of all the people in Serbia you left out of work, 354,000 people left behind, you and your DS, no job, no future, no nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4841	Ambassador, time's up, two minutes. Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović, on what grounds? Replica? Since they're going to call me, can I read you a sentence on why a replica was received? No, you don't. You're not going to call me? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4842	I would only ask Mr. Babic to explain to us next time who he is and the MPs who sit with him in the bench – the aggregate? And now they're in aggregate condition and where are they going? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: In the firm.) ) It seems to me to run backwards as it ran. As you said, some rivers are heading back to the source. There have been such statements in the last few days. You're headed for the source, to the radical source of the Serbian Chetnik movement, or the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4843	I was trying to save you from the past. I tried. If you're going to open that topic, I'm going to end up with the replicas now, because nothing will happen to the Labour Act. Go ahead, but I'm obliged to warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4844	No, Mrs. Gojkovic, you just denied Mr. Babic that we have no reason to call in earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4845	I didn't turn it off, believe me, it's my party colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4846	Okay, I understand, but in some ways, you've now confirmed that you support his exposure. And you, Mrs. Gojkovic, have also changed the aggregates.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4847	All right, I'll take that on my own. Here, you have a few more seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4848	But the key thing is that Mr. Miskovic and "Delta" today support this government, and the government supported by Miskovic and "Delta" I think workers cannot support.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4849	I thank you very much for your opinion, it's a completely private opinion. Whether I support some speakers or not, it doesn't matter at all at the session. Two minutes and closing a circle of replicas. I give my word to the MPs who report by law. What kind of replica? (Dejan Nikolic, from town: Five times the Democratic Party is mentioned. That has nothing to do with your status. Zoran Babic is called directly by the name and last name. Please, just let me run the session. I'll give you a word, too, if you want to talk more widely. But I'm closing a circle of replicas. (Dejan Nikolic, from the post: The Democratic Party has been mentioned several times. ) I know, but it is in the context of Mr. Veselinović, not in the context of all who sit and have ever been members of a party. Please, if I can handle the insults, you'll all be fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4850	Someone may have "demented" someone, but you, Mr. Veselinovic, have been unmounted long ago. That's a big difference. Maybe there are some people who say we support the government. But that tycoon was making your governments and there's a big difference. If you are already asking for the aggregate state of the SNS, it is firm, compact and defined by reforms in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4851	It is my right to close the circle of replicas so that the session can enter its course. Srdjan Dragojevic is waiting, believe me, 30 minutes and minutes to talk about the Labour Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4852	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4853	I apologize to you for getting your colleagues. Believe me, I don't hear it throw.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4854	Risking not to fit into the general course of the session. I'm free to express a few affirmative thoughts regarding employment on a specific and employment per project. I will say that many works, especially cultural, creative practices, will have a lot of benefits from this project employment and for a certain time. You all know that theatres in Serbia and Belgrade are a very difficult condition, that they are simply on the verge of shutting down. One reason is that when we hire an actor, we have a situation where many of them come first in the month, receive a salary, don't play in their home theater. At the same time, many young actors would like to be employed at a certain time, to give their maximum, to play in their theater every evening. This law has been waiting many years to comply with the Law on Culture with the coming Law on Theatre and I think it will produce a lot of favourable effects on the work of theatre. The second area where this law can lead to great progress is high school, is art academy. The University of Art has this absurdity that in some directions, say the Faculty of Drama Arts, you have teachers who teach installation, professors who teach production, that they have never installed a film in life, or produced any film. I think this law will allow affirmative artists to turn over for a period of two years, teach according to the project, and thus enrich the educational process at the Academy of Arts. It happens everywhere in the world. We don't need to be afraid of that. We have visiting professors everywhere who come and can really teach students something. Also, there's a third segment. These are the institutions of culture. You have a situation in a big city within Serbia that the House of Culture has 72 employees. You can understand how the House of Culture can work and how it can even deal with cultural programs, when it has to pay a salary for 72 people. You have an example of the City Cinema in Rijeka that has four employees. The man who makes the movies, he splits the cards at the same time. In order to develop culture, to have money for programs, we have to focus on this, on working by project, on working for a certain time, because many of us who are in creative practice are free artists and for a few decades, and it's not easy for us. I must say, that's the essence of creation. When you get a job in an institution, there's a serious probability that you're going to get a little lazy, that you're going to start catching curves a little bit. In this business, I'm talking about the sphere of culture, working on a certain time and working on a project can be very useful. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4855	The word is Dr. Alexander Radojevic. Here you go. If I may ask you to sit down, you'll hear from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4856	Let's start from the beginning. Dear Presidents, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I am of course against this amendment because the legal solution proposed by the Government is better than this amendment. Why? Because I think that I am a principle defined or undefined, is not the essence of what is the problem with us in Serbia. If the employer has work to do, of course he will hire a worker if he is good, and of course, if the worker is good, he will have a job with the employer and will be well paid. A few examples from what's called the experience of this clumsy so-called. The work on certain employment has the effect that you have a worker who is trying to be good, to prove that he is prosperous for the employer. The moment he gets a solution indefinitely, the moment he relaxes and becomes a worse worker than he was before. It doesn't have to be that bad for a while. If working on indefinitely was essentially something much above this work for a certain time, these 400,000 people who were employed indefinitely would not have lost their jobs either those people "Sartida", Rakovici, a series of factories in this country that were out of work, and they all had contracts indefinitely. So, the bottom line is to provide reforms for enough jobs, enough work for employees and a good enough base for employers to, therefore, employ new people, either on a fixed basis, or indefinitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4857	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4858	I, like my previous colleague Dragojevic, would say that this amendment, as well as anyone concerning this part of the law, should be rejected as did the Government. It's a much better solution in law and practical, and it solves the situation we're in. I often try to talk here in other places about some of the realities that we live in. As my colleague Dragojevic spoke about art, culture, theatres, film, music, we have one part of the business, which is also developing and bringing more and more good Serbia. We've seen, say, that young people this year have defined themselves most recently for universities that are in the field of IT technology or IT sector. We have estimates today and here we have heard in various previous conversations that tens of thousands of people, minimum, mostly young people, sits in some of their homes, rooms and we can say free, black economic activity, work on some projects, do some software packages, some hardware packages, and that nowhere goes through the system is not taxed, it's not known, it's not recorded, we don't have any situation about it. This is how, through this project, the possibility of project employment as foreseen by the law, we and the sector will largely lead to one legal situation and all together and the IT and the sector in Serbia and the economy of these young people, capable, smart who know they are working, and ultimately both the budget and the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4859	National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunovic and Vesna Marjanovic, together submitted the 12th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 12th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4860	The amendment that we have submitted changes the position, which relates to the situation, when the law wants to regulate, that someone has violated the provisions of this law in the conclusion of a labour contract or that the worker has continued to work after the work contract expires. I am now reading our proposal to define precisely this situation and fulfil the rights and obligations of the employee and employer. Therefore, the amendment reads - if the contract of work for a certain time is concluded against the provisions of this law, against the persons who have violated the law, the procedure shall be initiated in accordance with the provisions of the law in any other case. If the employee remains to work with the employer at least five working days after the end of the time for which the contract is concluded, the employer shall be obliged to establish a working relationship with the employee for an indefinite period of time and, in the event of a work breach, a breach of the working discipline or any other rights and obligations of the employee, it will be considered that he was in a working relationship during those five days. The government refused that amendment. The government's explanation is that the proposed provision, such as, more precisely, I will read it. The existing Labour Act, which remains if my amendment is rejected, says - if the working contract is completed at a certain time against the provisions of this law or if the employee remains to work with the employer at least five working days after the end of the time for which the contract is concluded, the working relationship is considered to be based on indefinite time. The explanation the government is saying – to refuse is, I repeat, that this formulation is more precise. The proposed solution is more precise. How is it more accurate unless someone who writes me arguments doesn't read the amendments at all? I would ask the representatives of the government to spare this tone of insult to the reasoning of both us and the National Assembly, I will even understand quite well on purpose to be told - I will not accept the amendment. This is more honest, more honest and would mean exactly what is happening in this process of adopting the amendments. So, the promoter says that an employer or someone else, meaning an employee, has the right to sign a contract against the provisions of this law and nothing to do with anyone, if that happens, then he will be hired indefinitely because the word is "or" in the text, and if the worker is five days after the contract expires, he will also be employed indefinitely. You call that more precise than there's no answer to the question, what if those five days after the contract expires there's an accident at work. What if anything happens to any other obligation or right or employer or employee? How is it possible to believe that in this single case the conclusion of a contract contrary to the provisions of the Labour Act is considered as the basis for no matter who broke any of the provisions, that it is the basis for a working relationship to be based on indefinite time? Do you realize the extent of corruption and abuse created by this attitude? Do you understand that any work for a certain time can be done by breaking some of the provisions of this law, so it will have to be concluded a contract of work indefinitely or vice versa. Please really, not only with this law, and it is not the word of this government, the executive authorities have a distinct tendency to not care for a thorough explanation when they want to reject the law, that such habits are slowly released if we want to call ourselves attached to the rule of law, respect for the institution of the Assembly, and really by understanding the provisions we propose to the MPs, if the products are deep, root out changes to the lives of people who are employed or in the status of employers. This is not about the special rights of employees or employers, this is about one neglect that the answer continues to be reckless – I don't care, I won't accept your amendment. Legal, but harmful.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4861	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blažija Bradic. The government and the Committee on Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is Branka Karavidić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4862	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, Article 14 regulates the issue of part-time employees, and we have tried to correct this proposal by intervention in paragraph 3 and Article 14. In fact, we predicted that Section 3 and Section 4 should be changed and we predict that the employer is obliged to give the person with whom he concludes the contract on work, before the completion of the work contract to inform about the availability of full and incomplete work hours. Then, we predicted that the employer was obliged to decide within 15 days of the date of receipt on the request of a part-time employee with a full-time transition, as well as a full-time employee for a full-time transition. We have also provided for a kind of protection for employees, so we have added Article 5 and Article 6 in the same article, where we say – in the event of refusal of the employee and the position of the fourth member, the employer is obliged to explain his decision in written form; and Article 6 which I think is extremely important, extremely important, the transition from full-time to part-time on the basis of employee's request cannot be considered as a measure to solve excess employees, nor can it be taken as a difficult environment for an employee when adopting an extra-employee resolution programme. I think the Ministry could have accepted this amendment. He has quite a strange explanation saying that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the draft legislation complies with the Council of Europe's 97/81 EC's work on part-time work. The Directive, or Directive, does not prohibit the provision of more protection to employees. The directive sets out minimums, employment rights, and the government could express its readiness, so that it could move on and adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4863	Thank you. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on the Work of Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, social inclusion and poverty reduction did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blažje Bradić. The government and the Committee on the Work of Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4864	The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina has submitted an amendment to Article 20 relating to the labour contract, i.e. the proposed law, stipulates that working time is the period during which an employee is required, i.e. available to carry out tasks according to the employer's orders. Our amendment refers to adding in line with the employment contract, i.e., we believe that working relationship, working time must be tied to the labour contract, not just to the employer's tasks. The labour contract shall determine the name and description of the jobs to be performed by the staff. Otherwise, the employee would only do the job according to the employer's orders. The purpose of the labor contract is lost if the employee only works as the employer orders, so please ministers to reconsider, it would certainly make the job easier for the workers and not only the employer would be the one who has their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4865	Thank you. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milena Bicanin, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Milorad Mijatovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4866	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we as a parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia seem to have given and proposed an amendment that changes and adds words - established jobs with the employer in relation to what is the solution of the ministry itself and this Article of the 20th Law, which is only jobs. It appears to be a small repair, but I think our change to go into the spirit of these laws that only the ministry, of course, together with the social partners, would try to do and contribute to making the law as good as possible, and it refers to every aspect in the organisation of work that implies that it is systemically arranged and that it clearly knows what employees do in the organization and that the law itself mentions on several occasions the importance of systematization of jobs, leading to the fact that employees and employers can easily agree on what is part of the work of the organisation itself. Therefore, if it is left to the employer that he can issue a warrant to his employee as he pleases, then we believe that the need for the systematicisation of jobs is derivated. Our view is that the systematization of jobs must be detailed. There is something that is also mentioned and I am free to say "condio sin quo non" of modern human resource management, which is designing and analysis of jobs. What represents the task of management of every company to clearly define each job and job description that does the job should be done. In addition, the systematisation of jobs defines both the horizontal and vertical aspects of competence and powers between those who are superior and those who are subordinated, i.e. those who are employed in organisation and management. If we have in mind that each organization depends today on the system, so today the SAP is being introduced into the organization and other information systems, just to introduce order and to know who is responsible for who, what is who in the organization is responsible for. We believe that if we leave out what our parliamentary group has proposed, which is to be strictly defined by the systematicization of the job description and that the employer cannot, after all, abuse all of this and derogate by saying at some point – well, I can give the order to do anything from any domain, not from the domain of what defines the systematization of the workplace. So I think this change would contribute enough to ensure that workers are protected and that the systematization of jobs can function at full capacity in what is called an organization as one of the four main aspects of the management process with the planning process, of course, management, motivation and control process in one organisation. Here's a suggestion and a request from the Minister that, if possible, and accept this amendment, because we think it contributes to both the employer, the management of the company, and the employees of the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4867	Thank you. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4868	Thank you. Article 20 amending and supplementing this law amends Article 50 which speaks of the concept of working time. The text proposed for adoption in a total of five positions defines what working time is, what is the employee's duty, what is the employer's duty, what is the time of alertness. Our amendment refers to defining the time of preparedness, and the reasons are in the provisions of the proposed amended member on the concept of working time, because in Article 4, this article reads: "The time of alert and the amount of compensation for it shall be governed by law, general act or contract of work". In the last position, it says – the time spent during the preparedness of the employees in the performance of the job by the employer is considered working time. Our amendment defines more precisely what all hours are, what the employer and employees need to know before the contract on work, and it was an amendment, that in the contract on work they would be elements, precise definitions of preparedness, to be an element of the labor contract. The government's explanation was that it was too much administration, whatever that meant. Therefore, our request is that working hours be considered the time at which employees are prepared to respond to the employer’s call to do their jobs, and it is not in the place where such jobs are normally done. The Government’s reply is that it is not accepted because it is working time-defined as a period of time during which an employee is required, i.e. available to perform tasks according to employer’s orders, not where jobs are carried out. Standby does not count at work, because employees are not at the place where work is done, nor do they perform it. That's an explanation why the amendment is not accepted. In the view of the proposal of the same Government, the time spent during the preparedness of the employees in the performance of the work by the employer is considered working time, so please decide. He can't do both. You can't say in the basic text of the law that the time spent in the preparation of the work is considered working hours, and you reject my amendment with an explanation that the time of preparedness is not considered working hours. It's no problem not to accept my amendment. The problem is the terrible depth of misunderstandings when it comes to the analysis of amendments and when it comes to a dialogue that does not exist, since we exchange, at least most of us, monologues about what it is that we think will result from this law. Even this obvious sentence I will probably not have a chance to imagine – wait, how can we, in an attitude that defines preparedness, say that it is considered working time, and in an explanation to say that it is not considered. It's not a problem. It's not a problem. It's not a problem. The problem is an employee who does not know whether his alert status will be calculated in his working hours or not and the problem is an employer who does not have to enter into a contract to introduce all the elements of alertness and the problem is the disputes that will arise, with the "beautiful" of this amendment being that he is neither in favour of the employee nor in favour of the employer. It protects neither one, nor protects the other, protects the rule of law, which we are obviously prone to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4869	The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blažja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4870	Thank you. This amendment also applies to Article 50. A law that regulates the concept of working time. We have proposed, by amendment, that a new position 4 be added after Article 3, which reads: "The employer is obliged to inform the employee in advance and in good time about the need to be prepared." Consequently, paragraphs 4 and 5 become paragraphs 5 and 6. We also suggested that in the new position of 6 it should be added in the end: "With work longer than eight hours being considered overtime". The government has rejected the amendment with an explanation that it implies that the employer must inform the employee on time of alertness and given that overtime is adequately regulated by other provisions of the law. The provision of a member to whom the amendment intervenes does not give rise to any default, nor has any time frame for the application of the sub-institute been laid down. It is in the interest of both the employee and the employer’s own process of installing such a standard on the obligation of timely notice of alertness. It also states in the government's view that overtime is adequately regulated by other provisions of the law, which we consider unfounded, starting with the need to clearly and unequivocally, without the possibility of different interpretations, determines that work is longer than eight hours and in these cases has to be considered overtime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4871	Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunovic and Vesna Marjanovic, jointly submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4872	Thank you. Another example of a false struggle for labour rights. The amendment is so much in Article 56 that instead of the text in which the employer was intended to have an obligation to notify the employee of the schedule and to change the schedule of working time for at least seven days. The norm has been introduced here for five days, and even the possibility of it being less than five days, not less than 48 hours. This, like many other things, will not increase employment, investment, monetary and fiscal stability, nor will it give workers any greater rights than they now have. This is another proof that this law has nothing to do with what it says in the reasons for its adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4873	Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 25th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4874	In the same manner as before, it is defined here that a collective contract can determine the redistribution of working hours to nine months, and in the basic text of the law that has been changed to six months, which practically reduces workers' rights in this area and in this part. This will not contribute to increasing foreign and domestic investment, will not lead to employment, will not lead to a decrease in work on black, will not lead to the monetary and fiscal stability of the state and will not bring new rights to workers, on the contrary, will make their position difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4875	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 28th amendment to the same text were submitted by the international MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blaža Bradic together submitted the 30th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4876	Thank you. This article regulates matters of rest. The position of the 1st member says – the employee has the right to rest for at least 12 hours continuously within 24 hours, unless otherwise specified by this law. We have nothing against that attitude. However, this amendment of ours has provided for the erasure of the 2nd article's position, which says that an employee working in the redistribution of working hours has the right to rest within 24 hours for an uninterrupted duration of at least 11 hours. We think that our amendment provides the right to a daily vacation of equal duration for all employees and achieves a higher level of protection for employees, which, due to redistribution of working time, works longer than eight hours. The government did not accept the amendment, citing among other things that the solution given in the bill was more favourable than the solution so far. The amendment did not go to a reduction in vacation time, but rather to equalising the right to rest between two working days. Furthermore, the amendment is in line with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2003/88 on certain aspects of the organisation of working time and the quality of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4877	Thank you. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4878	I don't understand why the Committee brought such an opinion. We have suggested that Article 32 be deleted because we believe that the proposed amendments to this law governing the annual vacation are introduced to the rule that it can be used in several parts and that the first part of the two weeks, and the rest by 30 June of the following year at the latest, with the prescribed right of the employee to use the annual vacation in two parts. A provision under which an employee is entitled to compensation for damages if the employer does not take advantage of the annual leave, is now provided that he is entitled to compensation only if the employer does not allow him to take advantage of his vacation before the employment period ends. For reasons of leaving the legal void of the legal regulation of the situation in the event of the depriving of this right, we simply consider that in the course of the working relationship the modification of the provisions, which concern the right to vacation, is not justified. A proportionate part of the annual vacation belongs to both the employee for each month and the day of work, so the application of this provision is discriminatory in cases where an uncertain period of termination of employment, and the employee has taken advantage of the annual vacation in full or more than the proportion of work. The justice of your government, which has proposed to introduce and reduce the right to compensation for employees, who do not take advantage of the employer's annual vacation, that this is for reasons of compliance with IOR 132 Convention, is nothing more than selective harmonisation by the criteria which I prefer to protect the employer. The Institute of Compensation that the employer makes to an employee is taken over by the rules governing bond relations and is not the same as the so-called cash compensation, as a substitute for unused vacation. How did the IOR Convention define it? However, since this abolition of the ruling majority will certainly be adopted, the practice will, through the application of the applicable Law on Liabilities, retain the application that employees can call for damages that the employer makes to him by denying the right to an annual vacation. So he'll still have that right under this law. We reiterate that both the annual vacation and the labour law institute created for international regulations and medical reasons, an employee who is forced to work without a vacation, will certainly be at risk of mental and physical stability, which will cause further professional and other diseases, which will be sufficient grounds for compensation under the Law on Obligation Relations. Therefore, this member of the Government will not in practice achieve much, but will only create confusion in the legal system and cohesion with the standards of bonding rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4879	There is a word, according to the amendment, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4880	The Honorable Chairman, I apologize, you said the amendment applies to Article 32. Did Mr. Stefanovic mistake the papers, or I don't know what it is, but what he said now has nothing to do with this submitted amendment? Namely, regarding Article 32, which has been submitted to the amendment, this refers to the annual vacation, in the sense that it is now being introduced that after a month of continuous work you can seek a vacation. I don't know, since he suggested that you delete it, I don't know why someone like that would want to erase it for the workers themselves, because so far it's been six months you have to keep doing it, and then you're looking for an opportunity to go on vacation. That's completely unclear to me, and what Mr. Stefanovic said may have confused the papers, but to be honest, you could have possibly pointed it out to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4881	Mr. Stefanovic is the applicant for the amendment and he has the right to explain it any way he wants, although we think he hasn't spoken according to the amendment. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4882	The Honorable Chairman, as my previous speaker said, it is obvious that the opposition gentleman confused the papers, because if we delete Article 32, it means that we want to remain that old system that the employee was able to exercise his right to vacation after six months. Our change is on the workers' side, which is that after a month, the employee has the right to use his vacation, but it is no wonder, since one statement says – is there anything more natural than to stop the worker’s working relationship if he does not carry out his work assignments, unless he has the right knowledge, if he abuses his work obligations, if he abuses his illness. There isn't. That's what Bojan Pajtic said in 2001, and today we hear all day that the party is head of the workers. In fact, the Serbian Progressive Party guarantees security for all employees in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4883	According to the amendment, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Are you using the time of the head of the parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4884	No one's mixed up any amendment. We're not talking about what you're talking about, so we're talking about the institute when it's being used right from vacation. So, no one's talked about it for one moment, six months, or a month. We are talking about the far-reaching consequences of shortening certain rights based on the proposed things that the government has proposed. We point out that by denying the possibility of compensation under the Labour Law, things will be moved to the Law on Liabilities, there will be additional legal confusion, and in no way do we see benefit in that sense, not in the sense of when the annual vacation will be used. Now, are we going to suggest erasing or are we going to suggest something about the addition of the member himself, it's already at the freedom of the MPs, as well as what to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4885	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4886	The idea of such a regulated vacation was and was that the worker actually took advantage of the annual vacation. So, not to replace it, which has happened very often so far. An employer gives some money or one salary at best and says you're not going on vacation. This article stipulates that the employer is required to make the schedule for the use of annual holidays and the schedule for the use of the annual holidays within this deadline that we have foreseen, which is June 30th. He's bound to do it. If he breaks it, it's a different story, it already has proper sanctions, it goes to court, etc. We can't determine now that the employer can't break it, because if he breaks it, he'll be responsible for it. So, this member, in no way erases it, of course, because this member provides for the employer's obligation to draw up a plan for the use of annual holidays and the worker is obliged to... Sometimes even workers knowingly give up their vacations to take some money to make up for it. It's not luck, of course, for them, nor is it good. The intensity of this member is that the worker uses his vacation, not at all different, and especially not to be eliminated.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4887	The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4888	The Honorable Chairman, I could have reported to the Rules of Procedure, because there must be talk about what's on the agenda, but I would really have asked the applicants of the amendment to read what a certain member is referring to, because then we can talk about what we want to talk about. This article on amendments and additions to this law gives workers greater rights, especially in terms of vacations, so I don't see what it is for the worker to be denied. On the contrary, an old member of the law denied him much. This gives him bigger benefits. I don't know what the criticism is, except that someone didn't read the amendments and the additions to the law and just volunteered to talk about what they wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4889	The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dizdarevic and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4890	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd just like to ask you at first, if we can make it clear, this is where we get the opinion of the Committee that the amendments are not in line with the Constitution and, as such, I didn't think they'd be discussed, and if you say they can, then we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4891	Mr Imamovic, you have the right to explain your amendment, regardless of what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law held that the amendment was not in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4892	So, this amendment provides for erasing Article 32(2)'s position with one simple goal, which is to protect and defend the right of workers to benefit from their untapped vacation, which they did not take advantage of, and what was the employer's fault, from getting some cash compensation for that guilt, that is, satisfaction. We all know how important a vacation is for the productivity of workers, but it is even more important for the mental health of workers, and therefore for vacations and for all provisions concerning vacations should be seen with special attention. The decision offered by this law opens the possibility that the employer may not exercise his right to an annual vacation and on his or her own days, despite the fact that he does not receive any compensation for denying that right. One thing is, as the minister pointed out earlier, when a worker decides that he does not need a vacation and when he wants to have some cash compensation in exchange for it, it is his subjective thing, each individual, an individual employed or an individual, but another thing is when that right cannot be used because of the increased size of the job or because of the employer's disagreement that he at that time or at some other point takes advantage of his right and belonging to an annual vacation. So, by erasing this attitude, we are trying to protect the right of the worker, to receive compensation for the untapped vacation, which followed by the employer's guilt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4893	Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4894	We have suggested that Article 36 be deleted because of the proposed amendments to Article 74. The labour law is the highlight of state care for certain groups of workers in specific activities, such as teaching and educational staff in educational and educational institutions. We consider this by removing the provisions of Article 74. The government is also employed in education and continues to classify in the same status as other employees. This can be one very real of forced interpretations of regulations. Regulations governing both employment of staff in educational institutions have so far been regulated by a different scheme of vacation rights, and in line with the needs of their work. With these amendments, the secretaries will, on the first day of adoption of this law, rush to the resolution ministry for the application of this provision, or should we say on this matter – their regulation, as a Lex Specialis or a roof law for all categories of employees, and you might be able to explain this at this time when we have already submitted this amendment which, as we hear, is not even in line with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4895	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. Minister of Government Alexander Vulin called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4896	Very short. Everything that has to do with our educational workers is regulated by a special law that applies to them, so there's just no reason why this member is standing here, not to mention what there is and an institution of collective agreement that solves these things when it comes to education. So no rights will be violated. A special law regulates this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4897	Thank you. Members of the 37th Amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4898	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our amendment requires that article 37 be deleted because the proposed amendments to Article 75 are amended. ZOR is more than a flagrant example of the government of the Republic of Serbia to allow employers to be free from the right to vacation employees. Why? First of all, it is not clear why a detailed explanation was made at which point the employer could make a decision to the employee on the use of the annual vacation, so that even that moment would be right before the use of the vacation itself. This in practice means that the employee will not be able to plan his vacation at all, as the employer will change his announced decision to meet the employee's request by the day of delivery to the employee and five times. We all know that every right begins to run from the moment of delivery of a decision on that right, by who's in charge of it. The introduction of advanced technology in the application of the electronic delivery of the annual holiday solution is the introduction of another fantastic option, ousting the rights of employees for the use of annual vacations. In this poor country, the question is how many employees are able to afford electronic communication from the place of residence and whether they can use it at all. This could be another kind of discrimination against Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4899	The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4900	Let's get that straight, too. First, it's a matter of harmonising with the convention, and the second on the working group and trade unions and employers stood up for this very solution because the last solution was 15 days. To be used in the beginning for 15 days and trade unions and employers felt that it was too much, so they agreed that and because of the process of production, it was convenient to be as it is in the convention for 10 days, so after how the employer and the employees agreed. It's that it wouldn't happen if you came and said, "I've got two vacation days and you'll only use two vacation days, and you'll have this later." No, there's a measure that's minimal and how it goes after that. So, just to repeat, aligning with the convention and on the working group, the full consent of all those who participated there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4901	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4902	As far as this amendment is concerned, I think this is also a matter of policy in some way, not a justification for the amendments. Under current law and law, workers have been working under for years on vacation for 12 months. This does not mean that it is used only in July and August, but can be used in January and February, etc. If we accept this amendment, then we could come into a situation to stop production in certain companies, because workers could use annual vacations only in the summer period. So it is fully justified that the legislator and in this case the writer of this law, this amendment refused, because in this way we provide continuity in the work of all companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4903	Thank you. National MP Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 37th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaže Bradić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4904	On Article 37, which amends Article 75, which regulates the schedule for the use of annual vacations, we have submitted an amendment in the sense that the position of six amendments and reads – a solution on the use of annual vacations by the employer can be delivered to an employee in electronic form, with the consent of the employee. And to add a new attitude to the seven that reads – delivery of solutions from the six of these articles is considered to be executed when employees in electronic form confirm the reception of the solution. The delivery of solutions in electronic form should constitute an exception to the rules on the delivery of letters, and the amendment provides this type of delivery exclusively with the consent of the employee, as well as proof of delivery. The government has not accepted the amendment because the solution in the bill is more adequate and provides for a reduction of unnecessary administration. It is up to the employer to determine how it will provide evidence that an annual vacation solution in electronic form has been delivered to the employee. We say - not on the employer, but on the legislator. If everything is on the employer as the Government says in its opinion, why do we regulate this area by law in the first place? The amendment has given a quality explanation which also makes it important for the consent of the recipient of the solution by electronic means and to confirm the acceptance of the solution. From the moment the act is received, I will repeat, the deadlines are starting to run and this is being taught at the first year of law school. Time limits as process categories are relevant for the achievement of a whole set of material rights. In addition, I believe that the employer is also concerned with the fact that the employee has received an individual legal act, such as the solution to the annual vacation. So I ask the government who rejected this amendment and the government representative who is present here – what is unnecessary administration in the simplest electronic communication?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4905	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4906	We as a society try to move towards digitization and try to do everything we do without paper. And this is one attempt to go that way. Just imagine some big bank or some big company that has branches in 160 municipalities and now needs to deliver a solution to each of the employees. You'll admit that by electronic means, it's much simpler, far easier. In today's court, there's even e-mail evidence, and it's believed that you received it when it comes to that. So, I don't think we'd get anything, on the contrary, we're getting anything now. We're still changing things, and I think we should go in the direction of digitising and using e-mail and all the means of modern communication. In the end, I hope you won't get me wrong, I really want to thank you, because your amendments, you've tried to change something, what I think about whether you're right or wrong every time or not, it doesn't matter, unlike those who just write to delete. I really want to thank you for this approach.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4907	Right on line, Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4908	Just one little supplement. You have set a good example of the bank, but I must remind myself of the state of the country of Serbia and how many villages and villages we have that have no internet at all or the possibility of using electronic communications. Imagine an agricultural good, a farming cooperative, how you think it is possible for a worker if there is no internet, without its consent to deliver the solution by electronic means. That's why we predicted that workers' consent was necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4909	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. You're using the time of the authorized representative? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4910	Yeah. I'd like to thank the Minister for appreciating our work on the amendments, but we're sorry he didn't accept any of the amendments, as well as this one. To make it clear what we have proposed in relation to the proposal in the amendment and addition of the law. The draft amending and supplementing the law states that an employer can deliver an employee’s solution to the use of annual leave, so that he can deliver it to an employee in electronic form, and at the request of an employee, the employer is obliged to deliver this solution in writing. What we have suggested is that it can deliver to an employee in electronic form with its consent, just so that not those, not in banks, not in large companies that have that kind of electronic communication on a daily basis, but some other companies do not. Our fear was to say some construction firm set up an annual holiday plan, send the worker a solution, and he works on a construction site, and maybe he uses the Internet once in 10 or 15 days. Then we added another position that is said to be – delivery of solutions from this attitude is considered done when employees in electronic form confirm the acceptance of this solution. So, we're just working and we're proposing in favour of electronic communications and cost cuts, but we just wanted to protect the employee, so he's sure he's got the solution, that he's got proof that he's got the solution by getting the email that he got, he's previously agreed to communicate with the employer, the answers -- yes, I've received, and how modern communication is going today. This leaves the possibility, our opinion, according to this proposal as you suggested that the employer be sent and considered to be running deadlines from that moment on, and the employees did not look at this e-mail or looked at it after five, 10, 15 days and did not have the opportunity to respond and possibly complain about the solution that the employer had set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4911	Thank you. Just to inform your party that the time of the parliamentary group has been spent, and the authorised representative has three minutes and 15 seconds left. National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic submitted together to the 37th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Sabina Dazdarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4912	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister of Words such as "God" and "not to be" shall not be found in the legal provisions. So you don't need to use terminology like – an employer can do something, and you don't have to do anything else. In Article 37. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act needs to clearly define what the employer is obliged to do to respect the rights of his employees. In this particular case, it is necessary, instead of ‘the employer may deliver a solution’, to put ‘the employer is obliged to deliver a solution to the use of annual leave to his employees in writing or, if the employee so wishes, in electronic form’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4913	Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Please, then he can't even be the subject of debate. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blažja Bradić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4914	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This member regulates damages for unused vacations. The parliamentary group has made an amendment, which provides for "in the case of termination of employment" to be followed by the words "or if the employer's guilt does not take advantage of the annual vacation". In fact, this proposal of ours predicted that leaving a working relationship could not be the only condition for compensation of damages due to unused vacations. The amendment retains an existing solution that norms the employer's guilt, and as a basis for compensation for untapped vacation. In particular, the provisions of Article 60 should be taken into account. The Constitution guaranteeing the right to work, i.e. on paid vacation, and in that sense it is unacceptable that in cases where employees remain deprived of their right to vacation, not by their own guilt, or by the employer’s guilt, they are not compensated. The government did not accept the amendment for the reason that the solution contained in the proposed amendment does not comply with International Labour Organisation 132's convention on paid annual leave. The amendment is in the spirit of solutions to the IOR documents, as well as provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The intensity of the amendment is the legal structure of the damage caused by the untapped vacation. The decision proposed by the amendment is based on the general norms of damage and liability for damages specified through the employer's obligation that if his guilt... (President: Time, Mrs. Karavidic. ) Just to finish the sentence, if his employees do not exercise the right to an annual vacation, the employee will be compensated for the damage. This solution also contains EU legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4915	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4916	Just for the sake of the citizens, let's get one thing straight. When something is said to be out of line with the Constitution, no one thinks it's an anti-state operation now. The thing is, if the Constitutional Committee has assessed that something is not in line with the International Labour Organisation Convention, and all conventions of the International Labour Convention are part of our legal order and automatically part of our system, then it is said to be not in accordance with the Constitution. Thus, the question arises why are we even discussing this, because if it is not in accordance with the Constitution, how can it become part of the Law?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4917	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4918	Thank you, Your Honor. Without doubting your good intentions, I am still more a supporter of the member the government has given. Why? If we're looking for the employer's guilt, then it's good to prove itself. He can also challenge it and eventually the worker won't get that damage. In this situation, the employer himself hangs it like Damocle's sword, that he will have to pay an annual vacation fee if there is an interruption of the working relationship and no annual leave has been used. So I think we're even more attached to him here to encourage the worker to go on vacation, so he doesn't happen to have such a shortfall, because he's definitely going to have to pay him a fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4919	The word has Branka Karavidic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4920	Just one sentence. What if the opposite happens and the employer doesn't predict the situation and sends the employee on vacation? I think it's important that this law also makes it clear that even as a result of the employer's guilt, if the employees don't take advantage of the annual vacation, there is compensation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4921	Thank you. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4922	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With this amendment to Article 38, we have provided for the addition of Article 3 in this article, and this amendment, we have, in fact, tried to treat the area that includes the use of annual holidays, or to protect the right of workers to use compensation in cases where it is not able to use the annual vacation due to the employer's guilt. It is natural for each employee, along with his professional life, to lead his own personal life, to have time for family, friends. All this affects, as I said in defending the previous amendment, its productivity and its, we can say, social life. With this amendment, we are trying to protect his right, or we are trying to protect the possibility that if a worker is unable to use this holiday because of the employer's guilt, he will receive compensation for it. In this case, if an employee is already paying for a large amount of work that the employer imposes on him and cannot use his right to do so, he should have an adequate reward and the law should provide for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4923	Thank you. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunovic and Vesna Marjanovic, together submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 39th Amendment were submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4924	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to a provision governing the obligations and rights of employers and employees, when it comes to women. So, a woman who's employed, who wants to be employed, has a career in any part of the economy, but wants to have children, too. What we have proposed to add as an attitude, it is said that all payments to pregnant women to maintain pregnancy, sick leave and maternity leave fall exclusively to the burden of the budget, i.e. the competent fund and are paid directly to the employee. In the discussion at the Committee on European Integration, I said that I have full awareness of how payments are being made and whether or not the Financial Support Act for families with children is needed to regulate this area. We deliberately submitted the amendment here, because in this law we want to impose an obligation in future legal support with children once and for all with the employer to pay the first month of a woman who goes on maternity leave or to pay maternity leave. Why? I had an amendment to this provision in 2005, when the Law was passed. We have a situation where a woman who stays pregnant, who has to either keep her pregnant for a month or go to sick leave, the first one, the first one should be paid by an employer, and everyone else from the Republic Fund and in the waiting time for each other's refund. What is reality is that a woman is without income, regardless of what she is employed and what she has right and what the state, as a valuable thing, said – we want women to be employed and to be born.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4925	Time, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4926	I don't think there's any explanation that this is going to be resolved by another law, but in this particular law, there should be a provision that will make us all, in one other law, on financial support, remove that obligation from the employer and put ourselves as a serious state in relation to our valuable promises. Thank you, and I'm sorry for this time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4927	Thank you. To inform your party that you have spent the time you have at your disposal as a parliamentary group. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4928	We also talked to NGOs that launched the whole action on different payments, maternity payments, which we think is quite good. Generally, to fully clarify things, a new law on financial support for families with children will be passed by the end of the year and that will be regulated here. Intention and these Governments, and I'm sure each of the following will be that the Labour Act is merely the Labour Act, that as few elements that are not directly related to work be in this law, and that some other legal solutions we regulate all these things. What is important to the state of Serbia, you see, the employer has an important role for now in these solutions, and it would not be possible to change it now by just one law. There are several laws that regulate the employer's role in paying off certain privileges, from him submitting certain paperwork, collecting strong papers that we need to significantly reduce and make some payments. I agree that there are a lot of abuses, and we will certainly solve these abuses. As far as Serbia's countries are concerned, we are very neat on the matter of belongings. Here, just to cheer up all the children's and parents' allowances, payoffs for June of July 19th.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4929	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're continuing to discuss the amendments. The word is Gordana Komic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4930	Thank you. The right of a working woman who gives birth is the right to work. It's very nice to promise that it will be settled by all other laws and we'll all be here in six months and we'll testify whether it will be solved by all other laws. What I don't understand is so much, almost to say stubbornness, to do one good thing for the employer, and an even better thing for an employed woman to start with in a law like this. If it is possible for anyone to mind that it is an amendment signed by my colleague, Dejan Nikolic and I, I have no objection to it being the amendment of the committee or that anyone else in this law assumes the obligation to start a process that is promised to us here in words when status issues are employed by pregnant women, or working mothers. The state has spoken to itself with value – we want to help a woman who gives birth that she can and can work. The state can't transfer that to the employer. I hope that at least with this amendment as well as for an amendment that prevents a pregnant woman, or a working woman who gives birth to a child from being a technological surplus, that at least our friends from the Women's Parliamentary Network will vote for this law. I know with exactly how many discomforts we're going to be supporting here and with what even greater discomfort to be against some of the obvious good amendments and no matter how understanding I have for it I'm really giving you a message let at least the number of these votes be a clear message to the government that by the end of this year with the employer everything that the state has promised to do when the question is of a working woman who is actually giving birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4931	Mr. Nikolic, are you answering on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4932	As an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4933	You can't, you don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4934	Can I use the MP's time?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4935	The time of the parliamentary group has been spent, I have already informed you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4936	Thank you, Chairman. Otherwise, I have to say that I support what Mrs. Komic is asking for a simple reason, because the NGO that is fighting for a member like this has been and we have talked to them all. But I have to say it's not possible to bring it now. First, you'd have to rebalance the budget for something like this. It is, of course, an incentive to Mr. Vulin as a minister, that, in the budget rebalancing, I am looking for this item so that the law itself can then be passed and that something like this can be regulated. Otherwise, the intention is completely honest, honest, and it is good that it is encouraged, and I believe that in the next period, as the minister himself said, it will be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4937	The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4938	Mr. Chairman, I would also say that it is necessary to donate, I would suggest to the minister, that we should give some attention to the amendment that Mrs. Komic has made and that perhaps, and this is a suggestion to Mr. Minister, that later laws still regulate this issue a little bit more fundamentally, and that once and for all, we should put on whether sick leave for maintenance of pregnancy will pay the employer or pay the Health Insurance Fund. The situation that is now happening, which is that after a month the employer is obliged to pay, pregnant, or woman who maintains pregnancy comes to work, works for 15 days just to avoid that administration at the Fund and then reopens the sick leave, and it normally comes down to the employer. I think it creates certain problems for the pregnant woman herself, so I suggest that it is regulated by a later law, once and for all, and this amendment makes sense anyway, what Mrs. Comic said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4939	Mrs. Comic is probably a replica of the question? All right, I'll give you a line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4940	I think it's also important that I don't bother with the clarifications about the idea that I know most of us think is good. I just want to encourage all of us to prove once why the National Assembly even exists in our system. So what we see as value, to send as value, and the replica is due to the fact that no budget rebalancing should be due to the adoption of this amendment. So that there is no confusion, therefore, this amendment only makes it clear to all of us that both the Ministry of Labour and Employment and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Finance will enter the procedure that will be completed by the end of 2014. If we do not already agree on this, then this joint vote will not be the success of any party, one club or one MP, it will be a clear message that the National Assembly seriously thinks it is doing its job. Thank you to all of you who will support the amendment whether it is by voting or by supporting it during the debate. Thank you, Chairman, for the opportunity to use the replica three times.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4941	Thank you. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic together submitted to the 43rd amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4942	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the objective of the amendment amending Article 43. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act is that the employer undertakes that an employee who has been found to be at risk of disability due to the performance of a given job offers a new job in order to preserve the vital functions and health of the employees, rather than leaving the employer at good will to keep or fire them, which would be contrary to the Constitution which requires special protection of persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4943	Thank you. Members of the 43rd Amendment were submitted by MPs of the same text by Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4944	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4945	I apologize, since you are not the bearer of the amendment, first I must give my word to the bearer and to you. I made a mistake. I'll give you my word later, but the first word is Mrs. Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4946	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment 43 refers to the protection of persons with disabilities and healthcare personnel. It is proposed that an employee, i.e. a person with disabilities and an employee referred to in Article 81(2) of this Act be obliged by the employer to ensure that work is carried out in accordance with the law. We have proposed an amendment to add item 2 to this amendment, which states that the employer is obliged to provide a person with disabilities with reasonable adjustments to the workplace and the process of work. We have explained that the introduction of this provision would result in a constitutionally prescribed special protection of persons with disabilities in the field of working relations, that is, Article 60(5) and fulfil the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the 2009 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which Serbia ratified, provides for the provision of reasonable adjustments to persons with disabilities, so it is necessary to introduce this provision, i.e. we felt it necessary to enter this provision into the Labour Act. Also, Directive 78/2000 of the European Union provides for the obligation to provide reasonable adjustments for disabled persons to be provided for in Article 5. The adoption of this amendment would make a significant contribution to harmonising domestic rules with EU rules. Unfortunately, the government has rejected this amendment with the reason not to accept it because the issue has already been regulated by rules on professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons who have a detailed problem of adapting jobs, jobs, etc. Obviously, it is not acceptable here that the employer is the one who can adjust the workplace according to the appearance of a person's disability but rather refers to existing regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4947	The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4948	I thank the applicant, but so is "ex specialis de log generalis", so the special law is more precise than can be the general law. But, to the truth of will, and I hope you understand and appreciate it, which is that this legal solution, we've already put in the next position that a person with disabilities, that the employer is obliged to offer her a job according to her abilities, and if she can't do that, that she has to pay him back as if it were a technological surplus. You know that so far it's not. So far, I'd just go down with my shoulders and say I'm not able to find the right job according to your handicap, and that's that. Now you must at least pay off the severance payment as if it were a technological surplus. So, significance, we did improve the position of people with disabilities, but the employer is obliged to try to find it, and in a special law he says nicely that he has to adapt the right job. So this is, if none of this works, we have at least one small fuse. That's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4949	Replica, Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4950	Thank you very much. Just as much as the employer, through this law we wanted him to be obliged to adapt the workplace according to the degree of disability that would appear, not to be called through some other law, or that you mentioned the severance, it means that he can fire him, and it's not the goal that a person with disabilities actually loses his job, or that with that severance, how the law predicted he won't be able to survive two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4951	The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4952	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable fellow MPs, above all, has already explained and explained why this amendment should be rejected, above all, because, he said, in the next members, this law in the next proposals, this area has already been regulated in a way that is definitely better than it was in the earlier period. But I also suggest that this amendment should not be adopted for the reason that firstly, the term "reasonable", I do not think it is known in labour law. The second reason is, which is an institution that will assess whether something is reasonable or not, it is a complete argument already mentioned in the explanation, which is that this area is already regulated by the rules relating to rehabilitation, medical rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, where it is detailedly regulated to adapt themselves to jobs. These three reasons, I find it more than enough not to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4953	Members of the 44th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, joint MPs Gordana Comić and Dejan Nikolic, joint MPs Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dizarevic and Enis Imamović and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Đorđe Stojsic and Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. First we have Borislav Stefanovic as speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4954	We believe article 44 should be deleted. I have to explain, there are some suggestions that we thought were very discriminatory, and this is the member. It's simply irreparable. There are some that we have tried to correct our proposals, and it is clear that this proposal is part of Article 44, which provides for the addition of Article 102(2) of the Law, so that if the employer is unable to provide an adequate job for an employee who has been found to be at risk of disability in certain jobs and persons with disabilities. This employee is considered excess and is fired on this basis, which can be included in the form of discrimination against persons with disabilities and collapsing with the provisions of the rules on professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities who prescribe the procedure and the way in which each worker is hired in this way to be protected. This supplement clearly did not take into account the provisions of other laws and would again create legal confusion as with some of the other members we referred to. In the application of this provision, no reference was made to those other rules. A practical question arises in which procedure, under which criteria the employer will be able to decide that a person with disabilities is fired as an excess, probably as an organisational one, and that is so, that the employer's decision is legal. On the other hand, how will employees prove that such an employer’s decision is illegal and that the employer had the opportunity to provide him with work on another relevant job. So, because you have made such a provision, which we think you should delete, you create such a system and such a situation that goes completely as other provisions that you have proposed in favour of, above all, the employer, and you are making it impossible for people who are affected in this way to prove at all, as the employer can't prove, why he fired the man, and he has disability.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4955	The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4956	We also provided for the amendment to delete this article in 44, and I would first read the 101st position first since it is related to this amendment. So – an employee with disabilities and an employee of Article 81(2) of this Act, the employer is obliged to ensure that work is carried out according to the working ability of the law. Furthermore, a member of the 44th Amendment and Supplements says – if an employer cannot provide an employee with an adequate job within the meaning of Article 101 of this Act, the employee is considered to be a surplus, within the meaning of Article 179 paragraph 5 of this Act. Therefore, this article opens a legal framework for the release of persons with disabilities. These persons are one of the most vulnerable groups of our society, and they deserve special attention and measures to encourage the employment of people with disabilities, not to open up the possibility of their dismissal. If you have not noticed, this article is indeed open discrimination. The proposed solution, not only enables discrimination, but enables employers to use a subsidy for the employment of disabled persons and, after the expiry of that time limit for the use of subsidies, it makes a simple systematisation of jobs exactly an excess of the job where it is employed with disability. I have no doubt and do not wish to doubt the good intentions of the legislator of this law to in some way protect and provide better working conditions for people with disabilities. However, the employer will by no means rely on the good intentions of the legislator, but is in the interests of the employer to look for holes in the law and make no commitment by employers to respect the good will of the legislator, but to respect what the law says. We believe that this solution is very bad and that it will result in increased dismissal of people with disabilities. During this amendment, I wouldn't go really deeper into the reasons why it can further imply our social life. I expect you to reconsider this amendment and that the Assembly will adopt it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4957	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4958	There is no more illustrative provision than this for proof of what the total consequence of this law is. This provision allows people with disabilities, the promoter says, more favourable, to be a technological surplus. In general, this law means less income for a private employee primarily and primarily for private employees who employ more than 750 or 1,000 employees, 10% less earnings, and we'll see that in a month. In three months, we will see that it means less severance amounts, and that means that the employer, the privateer, has no impact on the deficit, reduces its costs by reducing employees' earnings. Why do I say this is an illustration? Because persons with disabilities are employed on the basis of another regulation, they have a subsidy and now the provision proposed in this law will happen to be cheap and that part for the employer, especially if he is a large employer, because they are on the dogs of the public and it is clear whether or not the employment of persons with disabilities will be, or whether he is, employed while he has subsidies and will then use this member to be a person with a technical surplus disability. All this would be good if in and in what way this helps to reduce deficits or to help in greater employment and in what way. Any kind of not voting to remain a provision means that all other big words about the good effects of this law unfortunately fall into the water. It is not possible for all employers in Serbia to be that few people with disabilities who are employed, with the support of the state, to be the ones who are in the way of the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4959	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4960	I have to admit, I'm confused. So we should go back to the old solution where you could fire a disabled person without paying her anything. So, it's bad that what we've predicted is that we're looking for a new job and that we're looking for a job and that it's able to adapt to the needs, that's to the possibilities, unfortunately, and if none of that can, if there's still something that nobody wants, if there's a cancellation to pay for it, then it's to pay for the severance payment. So the better solution is that the employer is looking for a solution, he doesn't find a solution and, of course, fires a disabled person without any compensation. I don't understand that. It's completely incomprehensible to me. No one wants to fire a person with disabilities, so it's protected by several members of this law and let's clear it up, and this law, it provides for a right and a way to enforce the law, if specifically, as it is a person with disabilities, is regulated by special laws. This law can't regulate it, and it doesn't need to be regulated. I stand firm on this, not that it won't make it possible to fire, but it'll make it very difficult to fire because you're going to have to pay for something. So far you haven't had to pay anything just fire a disabled person.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4961	Thank you. Mrs. Komic, please give up the replica for the simple reason I gave you and past the Rules of Procedure, since you do not have a... (Gordana Comić, from the post: I have two special amendments, but that's okay. All right, thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4962	Dear Chairman, I am advocating Article 27 and regarding a member concerning the obligations of Members of Parliament. In fact, the duty of the MPs is to be in the O.R. and if they are not in the O.R., it is their obligation to take their cards with them. Take a look at the alley with SNS MPs, four MPs and 14 cards in the system. Therefore, SNS MPs are keenly defending the Labour Act, but by not being in the Assembly and not being interested in the rights of workers. Members of the SNS are violating the Rules of Procedure and you do not notice the chairman or you do not want to notice. In the part where SNS MPs sit only their cards. Can you take a break and we can sort that out?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4963	Here we go. Thank you. I accept your objection and we'll settle it right now. I'm asking the service to get the cards that are here in the MPs' units to take them out. I see them from here now, one, two, three, four, five, please. I'm asking professional services to take care of it immediately. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4964	I thank the chairman. I ask that the dignity of the National Assembly be respected but this is where human life is alluded to. It says here that SNS MPs are sitting in alleys. The alleys are Mr. Veselinovic's at the cemetery, and here are the great SNS. There are SNS giants here, and that's a big difference. On the one hand, when we debate each member, about every amendment, about every law, when we talk about this National Assembly, there are some conceits and they say, "Here comes that Zoran Babic, and every word of the opposition, he says something." You're not good when we listen to you politely. Say what's right, but to get us out of here, to throw us into some other alleys, you won't make it, and we won't let you, no matter how bold and rude you are. Besides, it was here yesterday, the day before yesterday, when a flood report was being discussed, so there were more ministers in the government than MPs in your parliamentary group. When did something like that happen? You never do now, and you find yourself counting cards, so you count, you'll be confused by 136. You've never had so many MPs, you'll never have, not so many MPs, not so many trusts of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4965	Thank you. Since the breach of the Rules of Procedure is, well, that's how it can be understood, I didn't figure it out, okay, it could be a flower alley. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: We are not flowers, we are not planted here. All right, I'll take it. Would you like to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4966	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4967	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go. Please choose words that we are not challenging each other. There's really no reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4968	I have to advertise in 27th and 107th because an attack on someone's life is implicated, and when it comes to breaths on Ada Hua, then it's not, which is where the Serb rebels killed everyone in order. This is a matter of hortic culture, essentially. Although, the alley is also a wider road or street, decorated on both sides. I think they should be happy about it “decorated on both sides, ” not dealing with prophetic deeds, as no one will ever have. They cried before, never, never, ever come, we wait for you and other things, so we know how you have led this land and in which direction you have taken it. I think that you, as chairman, are now unnecessarily bringing, perhaps not wanting, this situation when we're just going along with the amendments, proving how much this government is wrong, and now we're talking about horticulture, how strong someone is, where a colleague has a constant need to show. When there's a need, there's something wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4969	Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4970	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4971	Okay. The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4972	I'm also willing to educate some colleagues, although I don't know much about horticulture, but I know more than many others. There's a difference between the street arranged on both sides and there's a big difference between the avenue and the alley. Now, this is Avenue. As for the debate on breaths, it speaks more about the size and the small island on which these breaths are reduced and I absolutely support my colleague Martinovic in that stylish figure. The way you wanted to understand that figure of speech, it remains for you to think. Somehow it's always said -- this vermin government, this government that's going to do damage. There's a big difference between...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4973	Please, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4974	Please, it's a used term, Mr. Chairman, and if you haven't interrupted the previous speaker, don't interrupt me, too. If it's said to be a pest government, I've got data on the D.S. vermin that have been measured by 354,000 people, as much as they've left out of work. It's a vermin, not a descriptive term used by a colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4975	Mr. Babic, I think you were present when I asked and Mr. Stefanovic interrupted his further exposure. Then let's be correct until the end. I intervened with him, and so am you. He finished his presentation. National MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4976	I am advocating the violation of Article 103(1), where it is said - the MP has the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately after the injury has been done. A short-time speaker across the street talked about everything, just not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, why he answered. I have to admit, he loved talking about who he trusted. True, all the representative trade unions supported this labour law, and those fighting for privileges certainly supported you and continued to hate this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4977	I think I acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and warned all speakers in time. We're moving on with our work. According to the amendment, the word has been made by the People's MP, Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4978	Thank you very much. The 44th article has to do with exactly the previous member who explained exactly what we said was going to happen. We suggest that this member be deleted, and he says: “If an employer cannot provide an employee with an adequate job within the meaning of Article 101 of this law, which applies to persons with disabilities, the employee is considered to be an extra within the meaning of Article 179 paragraph 5 of point 1 of this law. ” Here, I'll repeat what I said and explain Article 43. This envisions the possibility that a disabled employer, who cannot offer a second job, declares a technological surplus and thereby sedrassically violates the Constitution of prohibited discrimination on the basis of disability. The Constitution prescribes special protection for persons with disabilities in the field of working relations, Article 60 of Item 5 and guaranteed protection of acquired rights. The proposal for this article is not in line with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which I also mentioned in Article 43, and this Convention was ratified by Serbia in 2009, i.e. a direct violation of Article 4. This is a ban on abolishing the applicable rights of persons with disabilities and Article 27, equality and protection of persons with disabilities on discrimination in the field of employment and employment relations of the Convention and the possibility is created if the solution contained in the draft law is maintained, that our country is exposed to criticism when considering an initial report on the implementation of the Convention in the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It is explained that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed legislative solution is more favourable for this category of employees, because it is an obligation of the employer to provide them with other relevant work, and in the event that the employer does not have the right job, the employee may cancel the contract of work based on the technical surplus, with the obligation to pay the compensation or to provide the corresponding jobs with another employer. The following part of the argument is interesting, which says: The Labour Act has not yet established a ban on the termination of employment relations with persons with disabilities and who are employed with health disorders, so it could stop their working relationship without paying compensation. So now it's convenient to fire him if he pays his severance payment, and how he's going to live on, it doesn't matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4979	Thank you. By amendment, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4980	When it comes to the rights of a person with disabilities or the rights of pregnant women, maternity mothers, nursing mothers, we all approach that subject with one special sensitivity, with one special sensitivity. There is no Act of Labour in this world, and I used a parallel right, which says a person with disabilities can't get fired. I wish there were such laws, and I wish there were such possibilities. There's no such thing as a possibility anywhere. What this labour law still exists, for several hours more or a few days, since 2005 has contributed to the fact that 354,000 people are out of work from 2005 to 2013. Of those 354,000 people, how many people with disabilities, how many are pregnant? How many people aren't defined for marriage because they're out of work, for having children because they're out of work? How much smaller are we because 354,000 people in Serbia have been out of work since 2005, during the validity of this labour law? That's why I'm going to join Minister Vulin's opinion and not understanding. If we've made this bill a small step, perhaps not a space step, but one small step, if these amendments or this amendment were to be accepted, it would mean going back to the way things were. It would mean that people with disabilities, and there are many in those 354,000 people, as many as the previous regime has left out of work, would mean they're out of work again, with no chance of finding a job within the company, with no chance of getting severance. The severance isn't a legalization of termination. The severance is only extra support that these few months have survived. So far, they've had nothing. I'd be far happier if this country had public finances that could track far better subsidies to both pregnant and disabled, but there is no. It is not because for the previous governments, it was more important for governments to increase costs and salaries to the public sector by 2012. It was more important to raise salaries in public enterprises, buy some social peace in this way, buy some elections, not make it and go into economic logic. When you have a decline in production, it's normal to have a fall in the public sector, and we have a decline in the economy and growth in the public sector. This has led us to the situation that public sector salary expenditure is 24% of total budget expenditure. Salary expenditure is 154 billion dinars higher in 2013 than in 2007. If they weren't so irresponsiblely increased wages in the public sector, how many of those 154 billion dinars could go to pregnant women, could be given to disabled people, could be given a subsequence to keep those jobs? No, it's more important and it's better to make a declaration about pregnant women, declareably take care of the fate of persons with disabilities, and to raise salaries in the public sector and that of party personnel who are filled with the public sector. The highest average wage in the public sector is expected in public enterprises. The average salary is 62,000 dinars or 530 euros. In the sector, wages and the fastest growth rose from 2007 to 2013, in these same public enterprises by 68%. I'll go back to the same question. We cannot declare that we are concerned about pregnant women, maternity parents, a very bad birth in Serbia, care for persons with special needs and disability, whose law gives them the right to get a second job within the same firm, so if they can't do that technological surplus, but with compensation unlike the previous law, which gave neither job nor severance. But for many others too, there would have been much more work and money, if the authorities had been more responsible by 2012, which instead of those categories of people, towards the development of our society, spent money, feeding their party personnel in the public sector. Now, it's an irresponsible policy, as it is irresponsible to give an amendment that reduces the rights of persons with disabilities, and it presents it as, my God, taking care of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4981	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4982	Imagine if there were no war, no sanctions, imagine you didn't spend 45% of the gross social product, imagine you didn't get 200,000 people out of the country, imagine you didn't fire 50,000 people in these two years, imagine you didn't owe 6 billion euros to Serbia in two years, imagine you did something, instead of just talking about us. Imagine, when you realize you're the government, you'll be in opposition, because you can't understand that you're the government. When you realize it, then you'll finally go to opposition. That's what's terrible. I don't understand this kind of attempt to pay more respects to someone who gave more. It doesn't exist anywhere in Europe, anywhere. I don't believe there is one in the world. You who reduce rights and persons with disabilities and pregnant women and maternity care, for example, in Belgrade and all other people and by abolishing 13 pensions, you who will now reduce pensions and salaries, are now getting up and respecting us for raising them. So, are you listening to yourself? Well, it is our fault, we're guilty because there were more salaries and pensions than your time. We're guilty. You try to explain that to those workers outside, I've been asking you nicely to go out with me to explain to them how wonderful the law is. You didn't come out. I'm out. Why didn't you go there and explain to them what a great law was, and the minister could come with us? There are people out there who certainly don't like the Democratic Party. I'm not running away from our client's responsibility. But this isn't a party thing. This law will hit everyone in Serbia, not just party members. That's what you're thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4983	There's a word, Minister Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4984	You know, who's to blame for wars or sanctions, at least there are several different schools of opinion, something the citizens of Serbia think, something the political parties think, something the participants of the wars think. But who's to blame for the 354,000 fired, there's only one school of opinion. The power of the Democratic Party. Who's to blame for the 400,000 euros that disappeared untraceable from Vojvodina Development Bank? It's only the one who handled it. It can't be anyone else's fault. So, there are some things we can argue about, and the crime and thieving that were in this country we can't argue about, it's more than clear. I am taking this opportunity to put an end to the disputed amendment, or disputed member. We've given more opportunities to people with disabilities, and I'm proud of that. One more time for Serbia's citizens, I'm going to do it again. If the employer, after several attempts, is unable to find a suitable job in accordance with the abilities of a disabled person, he is obliged to pay him compensation as a technological surplus and thus, as a technological surplus, he cannot employ anyone for three months in that workplace, unlike the last solution where he could fire him without compensation and hire anyone else in his place. I really don't understand what the problem is here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4985	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4986	We talked to the unions and we'll talk to the unions and now we're talking to the unions. It seems to me that we've been together and we've seen each other in the union rooms, and I didn't need security to go there, nor have I been courting the unions, but as there are irresponsible politicians in this room, I've called on the street, I've called on the Ukrainian script, I've called for breaking, I've called for destabilisation, as you have done, and not just now, but in some months behind us. Whether you were giving it more is a question of discussion, but if you were taking more, you were taking it. You took it uncontrollably and from the Development Bank, but also from other banks and funds and everything from where it could be taken. What I want to tell you, and what is the fact, is that due to the sudden and uncontrollable growth of wages and pensions, the public debt of Serbia has grown in a twist between 2007 and 2013, and is now 21 billion euros. If expenditure on salaries and pensions were in line with public income growth, public debt would be lower by 705 billion dinars or 6 billion and 70m euros. If he had followed growth properly, Serbia's public debt would have been lower by a third today, and it would have been about 45% of GDP if it hadn't been for the uncontrollable growth of wages and pensions, which you had won elections to form some governments just for the sake of survival in power. Where did you give it? We're in charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4987	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4988	The expenditure on salaries and pensions is financed solely and exclusively by uncontrollable borrowing, which is why we pay 28 billion dinars annually on interest alone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4989	Time. No more replicas. We're going after the amendments. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4990	I'm really shocked. This is another in a series of examples of manipulation. I'm asking people to dent when they're reading the law. The attitude towards people with disabilities is now improving. They're getting bigger rights. We really have some amazing examples here of MPs of a party whose leader, in his own time, when an anti-civilization law was passed, said in the Bor mine – if you can't work, plant peanuts. It was a relationship to the workers back then. Today, relations with a worker are improving especially with this amendment and especially with people with disabilities, and the party councilors you brought in front of the building are free to explain it to them a hundred times anyway, it's a complete electoral body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4991	Thank you. The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4992	Article 106. Why? I know you were changing that moment, Mr. Chairman, but the previous speaker absolutely didn't say anything about the amendment, he absolutely didn't say anything about the agenda point and he was talking about peanuts, knowing that they planted mushrooms in Smedereva while they were in power, knowing that in this country he poured gasoline into plastic bottles while they were in power. Now I have to react... He didn't say a word about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4993	All right, you've indicated a breach of the Rules of Procedure. My vision is that he was in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4994	But not a word my colleague said about the amendment. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4995	The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4996	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising Article 104 right to replication. So, as the amendment promoter, which was under discussion, I tried to get your attention, to get my word. What I was about to say is that here it is said that this amendment actually reduces the right person with disabilities which is absolutely not true. I would ask the legislator of this law - what is the mechanism that will measure the employer's attempts to find a suitable place for a disabled person and what are these mechanisms that the state will actually manage to do? I ask – what is it that you say that increasing the right person with disabilities is in this law? I'm talking about the essence here, and the bottom line is that you're saying that the rights of the person with the disability of this article are increased. I'm asking you -- is it the severance that you predicted, actually, is that an increase in the right person with disabilities? So we're supposed to predict here, and you as a pronoun should have predicted, a mechanism that would protect people with disabilities more effectively than that severance. We know well that this person is unemployed and that the moss has a small job experience, with small severances as well. Do you think the amount of that severance can make up for the loss of a job? It's not the mechanism we need to talk about here, and that's why we're predicting the removal of Article 44. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4997	Does anyone else want a word under this amendment? (No) National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 45th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Olena Papuga, as an amendment bearer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4998	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, Article 45. The bill is amended and it is replaced by points (a) and (b) of Article 104: “The same value includes work requiring the same degree of expertise, i.e. education, knowledge and ability with equal contribution and responsibility. The employer may account for and pay the salary of less than the amount of a particular collective contract. If the basis and pay-out criteria are not governed by a collective contract, the employer who employs at least 10 workers shall be obliged to establish them by the Labour Regulation. If the earnings are not determined under the collective contract, or the Labour Regulation, the labour contract must contain sufficient data on the basis of which the earnings could be determined. Profits are paid after work, in the current month for the previous month. Profits and earnings are paid in cash. If the collective contract or contract of work is not different, profits and earnings for the previous month shall be paid up to 15 days at the latest in the next month. “ The bill does not contain sufficient guarantees for the determination of earnings and its payment, and the proposed additions guarantee the payment of earnings according to the criteria and criteria for the calculation of earnings determined in the collective contract, i.e. the general act, and what is particularly important is that the so-called small employers pay earnings according to the predetermined criteria. The work of equal value cannot be linked to the resulting contribution, because if achieved it means that it has come through the evaluation and valorisation process. The payment of earnings must be determined as an employer's obligation with a fixed time limit. In Serbia, it is a trend to be late for payments, to reduce them and beyond contractual relations. The final objective of this amendment is that all employers must have predetermined criteria for determining their earnings and that they must be paid within a certain time limit, and we know that it is around 15 a month, since 15 per month is charged and budgeted. If it's for the so-called. VAT determined to be paid 15 per month, why are no earnings paid within this time limit and why is this law not laid down?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u4999	It's been used 30 seconds since the MP's group's time. Does anyone else want a word under this amendment? (No) The National MP Vesna Martinović, MP Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is submitted by the amendment MP Sabina Dazdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5000	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, we propose to be a member of 47. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act deletes. Namely, this member of the staff, who worked with several employers, abolishs the right to include a full-time job in past work, which also reduces the salary. The government's argument that our amendment is not accepted for reasons that the employer would not burden himself with what he was doing with previous employers is unacceptable. I ask the MPs to reconsider this member once more and not to allow anyone's 10, 15 or 20 years of work experience to mean anything about a change of business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5001	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 47th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5002	We have made an amendment to Article 47, i.e. I am, with a proposal to amend this member and with a concrete proposal and a solution. We are not agreed to eliminate the increase in earnings for work in shifts, but we suggest that the increase for work in shifts is set aside in a special point of 2a) of the law, so that the increase for work in shifts is separated from the increase for work at night. This is because, in practice, it was often allowed and played the correct application of these provisions, so that the employed employer did not give a full right to a total increase in earnings by two basiss, and based on the increase in work in shifts of 26% plus an increase in work night by 26%, in case night work employees work in shift modes. The proposed changes allowed the employer not to pay at all an employee increase in earnings for working on shifts. Clearly, work on shifts is not and cannot be the same as working on one shift. The need for employees, working at night and in different shifts, is different from those who work on only one shift. They cannot, in our opinion, have the same income, but apparently the government does not consider it and does not experience it properly, as soon as this amendment has been proposed and the actual suspension of work on shifts. The suspension of past work for every full year, we said a lot about it, achieved in a working relationship not only with the last employer was essentially introduced to save and thus significantly damage workers, and we talked a lot about during the previous amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5003	The People's Messenger Nenad Nikolic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5004	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not the essence of the amendment, or of the member you submitted the amendment to save. You are constantly referring to EU directives, presenting yourself as a party that is in favour of Serbia's entry into the EU, etc., but everything you do today, every amendment, every member you asked to delete has nothing to do with it. It has absolutely nothing to do with that. All you're doing today is the absolute opposite of that. The past work as it is today and as you want it to remain by erasing this member, the current is a self-government distribution model. Nothing more. Find me a country in the world that's got past work like this today. Find me a country in the world where the work of a universally employed person has passed as an increase in profits. There's no such thing as a country. I'd like you to deny me and tell me about a professor and an expert in the field of labour legislation who doesn't think it's a relic of a self-government model, but that it's a civilization achievement. Of course, your right to delete it as you ask for every member of this law to be deleted. It doesn't change anything for us, it just confirms our determination to oppose your demagogy and inconsistencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5005	Mr. Stefanovic, on what grounds? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Replica. Only on condition that you say the country you're in, and then I accept. If not, then we'll refuse time as president of the Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5006	I forgive you, Mr. Arsic, that wit, because I want to give you a clean five to your MP who did a great homework. I will name the country when you appoint a labour law expert without Mr. Babic. The other thing is, I'm also saying that you had to react, because apparently the previous speaker didn't listen. I understand why he didn't listen, because he had to write literary work, but you'd hear that we're proposing a detailed amendment to this member, we're not asking him to delete himself. He said, quote - as you delete everything. That's not true. Look at the amendment. We have a detailed proposal. I explained this very clearly through an explanation not wanting to go into all the details we suggested to change in the amendment itself. So, again, people talk past the amendment and then they get angry when we mention the alleys. I don't think that's correct and they try to get back to the point if they know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5007	I tried very hard to hear a country with a parallel right, but okay. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5008	The basic idea of a change in past work is to motivate an employer to hire a man who has great work experience without giving two or three thousand dinars more. Our goal is for people with great experience to be competitive on the labour market and to be able to welcome years for retirement, not to do so on the bureau. As for your homework, which you referred to my colleague, you had a homework that you did successfully, which is 644 privatisations that have failed in Serbia and looting the Serbian economy. As for Mr. Babic, I don't know why Mr. Stefanovic has some deep-seated emotions towards the head of the SNS parliamentary group, but you're showing it in a really weird way, but good. Whoever's fighting is in love, so I'll figure it out that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5009	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5010	Interesting debate. I see the emotions have worked. Anyway, at least as far as labour law is concerned, Vlajka Brajica. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the man is no longer alive, but he was an extraordinary expert in labour law. Otherwise, I must commend my colleague, Jana Ljubicic, who is quite a great expert in labour law. The very intensity of the SNS, and we promised it to people in the election campaign, is the employment of people. Today you can't make an employer really pay a year's work for all the years before, because that would be completely insane. Then no one will hire anyone, and our goal is that people, especially those who are 40, 50 years old, who, while some of you have become winners in transition, have become losers of transition and have remained on the street in God's justice. We just want to hire them and give them a chance to start working again. That's why one of these legal solutions is made, and that's why this is something that's good. Because it stimulates employment. Could that have been better arranged? It could have been that this country had more money, that we had more money, that the economy was working, but unfortunately that was completely devastated and destroyed in some period, this was where the administration was developing, and the economy was shutting down. So you might be able to reconsider what you did and why you might have led to such a legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5011	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5012	I analyse the proposed amendment, and I suppose the main objective of the promoter was to regulate the issue of work on shifts. I believe I will be corrected if I make a mistake in this as I understand the proposed amendment. I don't see any reason why the proposer should shift the focus of reasoning to the question of past work, since it seems to me to explain it in the same way as the legislator did. The point of the grudge is to regulate the payment of work on shifts differently. The reasons we received from the Government clearly state what we want to achieve with this solution, which is a clear difference between the organisation of work in two shifts, so the shifts that will be implemented during the day, as we say in a Colloquial manner before and after midday and work on the third shift, which is already part of the work of the night, which is foreseen by the law proposed by the Government, to be particularly valuable, to be valued differently. I think this approach makes sense, but you take this as my personal attitude. It makes sense for all those details that fall into the basic job description. I put it in person and the time when you will work and whether it will be in shifts or not. You reach a direct agreement with the employer in the conclusion of the contract and you understand in advance what you are applying for and what is expected of you, and according to this, the price of work is also formed. To end up with personal attitudes. The suggestion was that there is no blame, that the biggest problem in today's amendments is that something is deleted. Unfortunately, I have to say it stands. Now again, this is exactly the biggest problem that I see and how I read it, because this way the proposed amendment ignores the good solution put forward by the promoter, which is made up by the Government, which means that in the account of past work the time spent in the working relationship with the employers of the predecessors of Article 147, etc. If we agree that it is in the best interests of the workers, then you realize that we do not need to delete it, and therefore this amendment should not be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5013	The People's Messenger Nenad Nikolic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5014	Just for a little while. It is not true that you have not applied for this amendment to be deleted. You filed a request to delete Article 47. Although, not you, but colleague Martinovic. If I took your amendments that you proposed to this law there would be 90% of the members of the law – deleted. As far as homework is concerned, you're the one who... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5015	Mr Nikolic, it is an amendment submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blaža Bradic together submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5016	Thank you, Your Honor. This is one of the key amendments, and we're not surprised the promoter didn't accept it. What Serbian citizens need to know, first and foremost, is that when this law is passed and this provision of their salary will be less, less than how many years of employment they have and how many jobs they currently have with the last employer. Will their salaries when this law enters into force be less than 1, 2, 5, 10, 15% depending on how much work they have and how busy they are with the last employer. Whether it'll hit 500, a million or a million and a half workers, I don't know. Our proposal was to delete this provision that the minister had announced, which is to abolish the right to past work, delete, or remain the solution as it is now, because it will lead to a reduction of wages, above all. Whether employers will now be using the extra funds left to create new jobs or to agree with employees to remain the same salary or to use it to improve business conditions, to invest in some new technology, or eventually use it to buy a better car, yacht or something else, it's on them, we can't know that. By rejecting our amendment, the Proposer said – the employer can, by means of a general act and contract of work, appreciate the work experience of his employees in another employer, if the employee can contribute to the quality of the work, but this should be the subject of collective bargaining, i.e. the employer and the employee. It's a lot of maybes, and it can and can be, but what's for sure is that the wages will be less. That means in August there will be less 1, 2, 3, 5, 10, 15%, and when we adopt some other laws there will be another 10 or I don't know how much more. This is due to the adoption of such a solution, and that is why we will not vote for this law because we believe that citizens with the kind of wages they have today can barely survive, if they can survive. We can't see that this government is offering them a perspective of pay hikes, but rather of pay cuts. This reduction does not only apply to public and state sector employees, it may be the least relevant to them, because there are trade unions, collective bargaining, and perhaps they will manage to defend themselves, but primarily to private sector employees. They do not have the possibility of collective bargaining, their employers will cut salaries. Will she appreciate it or not, it's a question? I'm afraid in most cases, Serbia's citizens will not have less money in their wallet after the entry into force of this law. Once again, I would like to urge the motionor to give up this solution, to accept our amendment, or to find a way for Serbian citizens to keep their salaries, or to create a perspective of having bigger salaries. Another thing that's being said, now people who have more work experience will be able to find work more easily, because the employer won't have to pay them 10 to 15% more than he'd have to pay them in terms of their employment. What happens to those who have a big job and want to change jobs? That's what I keep talking about. We'll increase labour market activity, make it easier for people to change jobs. Why would someone change jobs now with a 30-year job and cut their salary by 12%? This solution is the only thing that will lead to these are the lower salaries of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5017	You have two minutes and 20 seconds left from the time of the parliamentary group president. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5018	You know what, Honorable Chairman, if we're really selfish, so we're just thinking about someone hiring a family, a family by administration or by public enterprises, then it's just fine to support a single amendment like this. If we want to develop a private sector and even an economy at all, then it's simply impossible to support it. What kind of employer pays you for your complete past work for all the years of work where you worked? You're incentivizing him to hire a man. I really can't understand that someone still supports this relic of self-government socialism, unless, of course, someone is that selfish, so he defends his entire party comrades and everyone he hired in the administration while he was in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5019	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragomir Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5020	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I think there are a lot of disputed amendments and the Labour Act, unfortunately a little concrete. I would like to tell you something from my experience just in relation to this amendment and other amendments that have passed, and perhaps those that are in progress, which I have followed and read. There is no employer, at least when it comes to private employers, who would in any way humiliate, i.e. Dispose of the employee. The reason is simple and simple, so we only live thanks to their work, their expertise, their experience, and I see no reason at all that there is any fear when there will be a commitment between the employer and the employee, that there will be something unfair. There is no force that will force the employer to fire anyone or reduce his rights in relation to his obligations. So I think it might be good to react to every amendment, not because viewers and citizens are looking at us, but rather, that we have the opportunity to present to them our opinions that we stand for. Otherwise, I'm kind of disappointed. For example, trade unions give up fighting for the rights of their workers, as Mr. Vulin said today, 24,000 union organisations, 24,000 presidents, secretaries, secretaries, cars, 24,000 offices, 24,000 mobile phones, 24,000 computers. I think it's these union organizations that have come up with the desire and the efforts of the workers for something better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5021	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5022	Thanks again. This amendment is already directly related to the way past work is calculated. We have had the opportunity to hear from the amendment's promoter that the main reason for the amendment is to worry about the consequences for workers, i.e. the possible reduction of earnings resulting from such a legal solution. I'll give you my judgment immediately, so I'm against it for the amendment to be adopted and I'm going to tell you right now, the way I'm forming my views, first of all, I'm analysing solutions through the direct interest of the workers themselves. I've been doing it all day, and that's how I'm gonna approach this question. First question, is there an effective reduction in workers' earnings if a legal solution is accepted in the way the government has formulated it? Not necessarily. You said so yourself – it doesn't have to mean, but it can also be a question of how much. First of all, the whole reform package refers to the tendency to take further jobs, engage and further develop the private sector. The situation in practice, how the negotiation of the labour price works when you talk to a private employer. He has his own idea of how much he thinks a certain job is worth, how much he's willing to pay for it. On the other hand, what are your performances and expectations of what you can provide? If you find common language, the agreed sum is what follows you. In that case, past work is a way of calculating your earnings, a mechanism to make a budget. It doesn't affect your arrangement and it doesn't affect what happens next. What will prevent an employer who wants to keep a well-motivated and capable worker from retaining his income tomorrow, regardless of what we've changed? Well, nothing, and that's what I expect will happen in practice. The truth is, in some cases, there may be a cut in profits, but first of all, let's see what leads to such a solution. We're talking economic and business logic. Past work as a term, what is it supposed to represent? Let's put our hands on our hearts and talk, which is what we say, in some sense, and without having to defend apriors or something, just because it's proposed by someone we might not love too much politically. In my humble opinion, past work should be what describes the additional quality of workers acquired by experience, on the one hand. On the other hand, a measure of respect for all that the worker has already managed to provide to the employer, or to his profession. When it comes to experience, in direct engagement negotiations, the worker, in my honest opinion, is obliged to take care of what it is worth and to calculate his personal experience, and the employer to evaluate it properly and to decide whether he wants a more capable worker, capable of having a certain experience, or perhaps it is too expensive. It is perfectly normal for me that this is not directly defined by the figures on past work, but whether or not the employer and worker will find themselves at the same value in these conversations. On the other hand, the need to value something that has been done, which has been acquired in the past. I agree, there is such a need. Such a need should exist and remain defined, but then no one can say that there is no point, that there is no logic that this need is measured by the current employer only during his work. What the worker has provided with his work so far, the employer’s effects so far measured, the employer only values in that domain in which he has benefited from it. No one can say this isn't fair. Does a potential profit reduction occur? It can happen in those cases where the final labour price is not the one that is directly agreed, specified by the contract, but to this is added what is past work. How big is she gonna be? The calculations that I had the opportunity to deal with, and the calculations that come from the relevant places in the country say – on average up to 2%. These 15% we have the opportunity to hear more than once today, 15% of whom have made news, agency news, the daily headlines of some representatives of the very republican summit of certain trade unions, do not even stand when you look at their reasoning. This is a piece of paper from one of the leading unions that explains what's wrong with this Labour Act in their court and attitude. One of the most important places in these arguments, and when you look at them again, hand to heart, frankly, there is a very logical explanation for everything, and we have heard many today. There's no stone left on the stone when you go through this position with those arguments. This paper, this list of views says the average salary will be reduced to 15%. There's the problem, there's the sensation, there's the news that was staged to bring unrest. What does an average of 15% mean? From 0% to 15% on average, which means what? Practically nothing, that those whose salary will not be reduced at all and those to whom they will be reduced more than 15% will be equal. Maybe two, three, and everyone else in between. What does it mean in between? By 0.1 or 14.9? It's clear what this should represent. Clearly, it only serves to cut the number 15% into memory. Whoever wrote this, you can tell by how he wrote it how well he thought it was, and I told you what realistic expectations are for practice. The very essence of this law, and I end up with this note, is exactly what we're talking about the second day in this honorary home, which is to increase the competitiveness of the labour market, that those who have worked long can with equal opportunities to compete again if they find themselves in a position to lose their jobs. These solutions aren't made because some year before retirement they're going to want to change the company, but because they're going to be forced into it, and they didn't want to. What's going on with these people? How hard is it for them to find a job, and how much easier could it be if they were equally competitive with the others on the market? In doing so, no less important than that, it is equally important to give the same opportunity to those who are not at all employed. So I suggest that this amendment be also rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5023	The replicator has the right to the amendment, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5024	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know what kind of paper Mr. President was talking about. I didn't see him, I was in simple math. If you have more than 37 years of work experience before, and now you change your job, your salary will be less than 15%. It's simple math, 0.4% per year. That's how I got that number and I said it was maximum. You said that on average 2% will be reduced. I'd like this bill, and to support it, to raise the salary by at least 2%, not the cuts. The only thing this government offers is this law and the following measures are pay cuts. Let's offer citizens more wages and a better life, not less wages and a worse life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5025	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Tatomir, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5026	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, it is obvious that whoever proposed this amendment has never worked in the private sector, so he argues that this member will hit many more people who work in the private sector than in the public sector. I'll explain how it's done first. When you apply for a job, you come to the boss, you discuss working conditions and, of course, agree on a salary. Usually there's some trial work going on. If you show up for that trial, the boss will hire you further. If you're a good worker, the boss will pay you well. If you've had past work before 10, 15 years, the boss will pay you well. So this law will hit at least people who work in the private sector. The second thing is, if someone stays two to three years until they retire, they're probably more important to him to get a job and work those two or three years to meet the pension requirement than to have a 10% to 15% lower salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5027	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5028	I'm sure if television broadcasts weren't on some kind of watch, it would be enough for you to say something once in a while and there's no need to repeat it from day to day and everyone's pretending like they didn't hear it. Yesterday, we specifically explained the problem of past work, and we said that no past work has been abolished. First of all, it doesn't go away. Although there is nowhere but in Serbia, but it is not abolished. It's shrinking. Only applies to the last employer. So it doesn't go away. I repeat, even though you can't find him anywhere else, it's not ending again. How many are there who are 37 years of employment and are now changing employers? You'll admit it's really not a large number. A colleague is absolutely right, all of us who worked in private companies know that the profit deals with the owner, the employer and that past work has never been, nor calculated past work, but tells you – your experience, your knowledge costs so much and so much, and that's it. No reduction is really expected. You're asking us to promise a bigger salary, a better life. You know, previous governments have promised higher wages, better lives and spending the unearned. We can't promise you that. We really can't promise you to spend what we didn't earn. We'll only spend what we've earned. I don't need to be popular and say -- don't worry, citizens, I'll raise you 10%, and if you work, if there's a job, it doesn't matter at all. I'll take some credit, and some next generation will pay back. This government will solve problems, leave no problems to another government and will not be obliged to give back credit to another government. So when we say past work, let's be honest, we haven't abolished it, you still have it with the last employer, no matter how far you don't have that solution anymore, but, well, we're trying. We will not, as previous governments, promise to spend what we didn't earn and raise one seven-eight billion euros in credit. We won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5029	Thank you. Mr. Djurishich, on what grounds? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. I didn't notice he mentioned you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: The predecessor spoke of me, where I worked and when I worked. He spoke to me personally. I didn’t notice that he spoke to you personally, but I will now give you the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5030	Here, let me talk to my colleague where I worked and what I was doing. I, like many of my peers, began to work during the 1990s, when the parties that make up government today and then committed government. I worked with a tycoon, as people are popular today. I worked so I worked four years black, I don't know what it was called then, trial work, experimental, whatever, no internship, no health insurance, pension, nothing. Then, after that four years, I guess I earned my trust, so I got into a working relationship and worked for a few years until I crossed over and became a folk MP in 2002. So I have this experience in life, so I know how it works out, but I know how it was when these same parties led the country. I hope we're not going to that period. What I'm saying is, I'd like this government to behave so that only what it has is available and shared, and that it doesn't spend what isn't earned. But from then on, over six billion in just two years. That's no government in the last 15 years... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5031	I'm sorry, Mr. Djurisic. I didn't notice a colleague mentioning the government's duties, so you're answering his question. Thank you, if you have anything else from your work résumé to add.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5032	I can keep talking about it, but it's not relevant, I think Mr. Vulin was talking about one part of my exposure. So, I just want to say that this government has put Serbia in charge of over six billion euros, and continues and there is no end to this borrowing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5033	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5034	I just need to get back to you on this amendment. And in the discussion, when she was in general, I made a fine announcement to new friends and friends from the camp who were once fiercely neoliberal, that Comrade Cardellj had died, as well as self-government socialism. People don't exist anymore. These are all new things now. In line with this amendment, I ask the most honest applicant, that he is a private man, would he hire a person who is 37 years of employment and would he pay for his complete past work? In fact, would you even consider hiring a person like that, and would you, if you hired him, pay for a full past work? I'd just ask him if it's honest, and if he did, he would, if you want, people who are, like, on the street, so here's a chance to hire them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5035	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5036	Members 106 and 107 were injured. The previous speaker was talking about friends and friends and Edward Cardell. You let him talk about it and only in the end touched the essence of the amendment. Then you see how unnecessary tension is being created. You know, and I wouldn't mind friends and friends and Edward Cardellj, I wouldn't. But it bothers me when someone says that we, thinking of us Democrats, were once fierce liberals, and now we're something else. Oh, he doesn't see what he was or what he is now. When you see the first trunk in your eye, then talk about the thorn in someone else's eye. We're at least a party who knew life wasn't a static thing and that the Berlin Wall had fallen and that it had fallen in 1988/89. And that wars were not needed. But, as chairman, allow this questioning of the ideological and attachment of Edward Cardell to us, because we consider this law to be very harmful and much worse than Djindjic's law. You're now talking about us having to talk here all about some amendments. I don't think that's a good practice, and I'm asking you not to let something like this happen, but let's get back to the point and discuss what anyone suggested, not what is ideological, because it's not convenient for people who weigh it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5037	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. Since the amendments to the disputed article 47, several participants in the discussion have mentioned that it is a relic of socialist self-management and ideologist was, or one of the ideologists was Mr. Cardellj and so far it has not been a violation of the Rules of Procedure and I do not understand why you find yourself. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Because it is repeated 20 times. So if you once let a colleague go, then you have the right to allow others the same right. So, if you think there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, would you like to make a statement in the voting day? Please, do you want the National Assembly to declare itself? All right, thanks. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5038	I am advocating the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 103, a man who explained, that is, the MP explained the injury, and that he had not touched at all, what I had broken or what you had broken, and I have no intention of arguing to anyone what today was, what was yesterday the Law of Labour of 2001. I speak perfectly of what you were, what ideological proclivity you had. Your relationship with the workers was such that the employer could, without any reason, hire a worker from work and so much about how you were neoliberal. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene: This bar means that we were. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5039	Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. On what basis? I'm sorry, do I always preside when you answer? You're answering the amendment? All right, the word has a People's MP, Alexander Jovicic. Here you go. I have no one on the list, but the president and the chairman are here to hold a session, three minutes after one amendment, quite enough for 170 amendments to the law. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Please, replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Djurishic, you will have the right to respond. The goal of this...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5041	The chairman and president have the right to decide who will speak and when.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5042	The objective of this amendment is certainly to transfer people from the black zone or the gray zone to legal flows and to legalize workers, which means we don't have employees who worked just like you did to black, at tycoon like you said, and we're fighting it. But in the period from 2008 to 2012, there was a moment when these same people, i.e. you and your party, or officials, received 50,000 euros a month from these same tycoons, and you no longer had a problem with whether anyone was working black when you were taking money from these same people. Well, we're fighting work on black,... but also against the tycoons where you took 50,000 euros to carry out their interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5043	Ambassador, we have a little problem. I always ask you to speak to me in the Rules of Procedure. Ambassador Jovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5044	... . but also against the tycoons where you took 50,000 euros to carry out their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5045	I ask MP Jovicic to always and according to the amendment to me, if he has to criticise someone about previous speeches. I said we'd close the circle of replicas, because I think in 30 minutes, it could be pretty clear who had something to say to whom. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Please, I have the right to a replica. How? Who mentioned you? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Is it offensive that I took 50,000 euros? Give me your word, and I'll explain. Let me hear it. If he says your name and last name, I don't know, then we can talk all day, I don't see anything offensive. He has to say something offensive. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Please, is it offensive that I took 50,000 euros. There's no such thing as a stenogram. Please, you can't call for membership in all parties. Please, buddy, don't let us have the same problem all day. The word is Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. I can't hear when they're getting people. Will you say the word to Janko Veslinović or not? Please, MP, I'm in charge of a session, not everyone who thinks of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5046	I want a word. So you broke the Rules of Procedure in 106 exactly what Mr. Djurisic said. So the previous speaker said that the representatives, or members of some parties, were taking... ..
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5047	Some parties, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5048	... They took 60,000 euros from the tycoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5049	I beg your order in the O.R. Do you want a break? I don't think anyone has a desire for a break. First he's chairing to calm the situation down, for a minute, for a second. Now, you have your word, you finish, but you've already said some parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5050	Let me say, I didn't want to mention the names of the parties, but he said-- you and your parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5051	So there was no name, no last name, nothing?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5052	He said -- you and your parties took from the tycoon for 50,000 euros. So, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5053	And now what are you saying?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5054	So, please ask the MPs to say who by name and last name was taking from the tycoon or to give him a warning, because this is not a courtroom, we've already said that several times. No one or an SNS MP can judge anyone here or sentence him to hang, or condemn him to other punishments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5055	It's just a matter of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5056	This is going towards it. So who did and when he took from the tycoon 50,000 euros or they know it because they might have taken the money that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5057	You won't cause a replica. I won't let this happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5058	On the breach of the Rules of Procedure, there's no replica. So, I ask you to lead the Assembly in the way the Rules of Procedure provides, not to allow the insult of other MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5059	Thank you, time. In order to calm the general situation, and you have no desire for a break, but to continue your work, it is my right to hold a session in the way the chairman considers the session to be held. I am moving on to Article 47 of the amendment to allow all MPs to discuss the Labour Act further, as well as the Minister. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept the amendment with the correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. No one wants a word. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 47 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5060	We accept this amendment just so we can get in the way of all these stories of abolishing shift work. There's no termination of shifts. This amendment also introduces a term for "smartwork" so that there is no confusion. The amount of compensation for shift work will be determined in negotiations between the employer and the employee, i.e. the union, for a very simple reason, because it is not the same shift work as the cashier and miners. It's not the same. For the night's work, there was compensation, the exact same 26%. So, just so there's no media manipulations and stories about it, and that's why we've accepted this amendment, to make things clear, to know that shift work is there, and that's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5061	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 48th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Chapo.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5062	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, my fellow Members and I of the LSV Group have submitted an amendment to Article 48. A bill that defines the area of minimum earnings. What does this minimum profit represent, how and how is it paid? We disagree with the proposed solutions in the law, and here's why. We believe that the concept of minimum earnings is based on the protection of the lowest waged employees. We believe that minimum earnings must be defined as a minimum gross amount belonging to the worker for full-time working hours, and that the work effect must not be a determining part of the minimum earnings. By binding minimum earnings to the effect of the employee, the door for abuses, which, unfortunately so far, has been opened. An employee must not receive a profit below minimum profit. On the basis of the proposal to pay minimum earnings in the current month, for the previous month, it is provisions containing parallel European legislation, and I will mention Croatia and Slovenia. The establishment of the obligation for employers is that minimum earnings are paid regularly for the previous month and that is the least the state can do, guarantee the existence of employees and, to the extreme, the dignity of employees, their human rights. Minimum earnings by us are not a rule, so we propose to delete the provision of a bill relating to the determination of the reason for the introduction of a minimum profit by a general act, or contract, and only after six months of notification of the representative union. The payment of minimum earnings indicates the insolvency of the employer and is instructed to provide for the employer's obligation to notify the competent ministry and the union after making a decision to pay the minimum wage. By prescribing the obligation, notifying the competent ministry, the one in whose jurisdiction the Solidarity Fund is responsible for paying off profits in the event of bankruptcy of the employer and setting deadlines for payment of minimum earnings, we believe that it prevents agony and 1,000 employees who have so far remained on the streets without paid earnings due to labour legislation. I will repeat once again that the objective of this amendment, which was submitted by the LSV parliamentary group, is to protect the weakest part of the paid employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5063	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5064	I would like to thank the motionary. Let me get this straight. Nothing that has anything to do with the profits, so the definition hasn't changed, at the union's request, we've even managed to convince the employers to agree, nothing has changed. That's what it's like. The only thing we've added to this is what you haven't read well, the employer's obligation to notify the union of the reasons for introducing minimum earnings in the event of minimum earnings, after six months. It's not something God knows what changes, but at least it changes as much as it makes a union commitment, the employer's obligation to turn to the union and be part of social dialogue and more than ever before. As far as minimum earnings are concerned, the method of definition and reckoning has changed nothing. That's how the union insisted. They didn't want to talk about the possibility at all, and then the employers agreed to our insistence, and so it was.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5065	National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 48th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. No one wants a word. National MPs Milena Bicanin, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Milorad Mijatovic, together submitted the 49th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5066	Dear Ministers, my colleagues and I have handed over this amendment concerning, as this legislative solution, that is, the amendments say, minimum labour prices, and primarily the amendment refers to the minimum labour price, as a term in modern industrial relations being no longer used, but a minimum satin is used. Apple Minister, when the labour code is done which will cover all the laws, so collective bargaining, the Union Act and all that will define and the minimum wage which is primarily and the priority of collective bargaining between employers and union representatives, to pay attention to the fact that the minister, not only is the labour minister, but also the employment, and that this should be followed, minimum earnings should be followed by certain changes and models concerning the tax policy itself, because the minimum earnings, which we have and which is not the market institution, because it is the only institution in the modern market that the trade unions have chosen, and this is the minimum price of labour offered and demand not determined. So any goods and services can come to cost zero dinars or zero euros, everything depends on the demand for them, the only demand for human labour and the price of human labour cannot come to this zero, because it implies a minimum of dignity, the life of a man, especially in the 21st century. So, we from the Social Democratic Party are talking about a new institute and a term that the ministry should think about, and that's what's called "living waj", not a minimum profit, because the minimum profit in developed market economies and you know it yourself is much bigger, three, four, five times bigger, so in economic theory you have attitudes that when the minimum earnings increase, unemployment decreases. In our case, it is extremely small, so it has to be taken care of that tax policy so that the minimum earnings are made in fact for the people who do a job in parallel to something else, for students who have half the time or something, and to think about the minimum income tax being abolished rather than just the amount of 11.900 dinars. There are analyses that mean that it can be covered from other sources. We today have a tax system that those who have profits that are over 200,000 dinars, they are literally taxed at a lower tax rate than those who have a medium level of profit and by a few percent. So I ask you to think about defining, in drawing up the Code of Work on this Life, means not about the minimum profit but about the living profit, because the change in the Institute itself will help us to encourage, how can I say, and the economic development and meaning of minimum earnings, because what is certain that minimum income cannot provide for us the basic, dignified lives of people, of course, working people who work for that salary. What is also a big problem with our minimum earnings, so for the minimum earnings that are very low in terms of developed market economies, which it demotes the employment of highly qualified people, because you have dozens of factories in Serbia, dozens of investors who employ low-skilled labour and, of course, aimfully give them a minimum profit which is not good, so I ask you to think about it and change this termology, because the minimum labour price is something that was used earlier, in the past, with all due respect that this model has been achieved in the context of tripartite dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5067	Thank you. Members of the 49th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5068	Thank you. The amendment concerns a member who now defines the price of work under the draft law or says that the price of the hour will be determined, listing everything taken into account that the price of the hour could be determined and that the minimum labour price contains an explanation and says that it is determined by working time without tax and contributions for the calendar year, no later than 15 September of the current year and is applied from 1 January of the following year. The amendment that I have made – that the decision maker on the minimum working hour price is required to publish a memorandum of account and put it on public notice no later than 30 days before the last deadline for the determination of that price. The government, which rejects my amendment in its reasoning, rejects it with an explanation that there are participants who are defined in the member who should be responsible for determining the labour price and that the decision will be published in "The Official Messenger". So, it gives me an explanation for refusing something that I haven't even slowed down at all. And every explanation, for every amendment, is such that essentially each of us MPs shows that the proponent either doesn't read or simply doesn't care, or thinks it doesn't matter to try, be thorough in the reasoning given to reject the amendments, that he would do himself, as Government, not us. Does he feel that none of the MPs read the reasoning or read the laws? It's possible, too. But all together it's unworthy work of any government and it's not the first government to do it. I hope that there will be a will among us MPs to explain to the Government that, when he writes an explanation to us, he writes an explanation for the amendment proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5069	Time. Thank you. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milena Bicanin, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Milorad Mijatovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Dr. Blaža Bradic, together submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5070	Thank you. We have submitted an amendment to article 51 and this article is amended by Article 115. The law. The amendment reads – Employees have the right to make earnings during their absence from work due to temporary prevention for up to 30 days, at the rate of 100% of the average earnings in the previous 12 months, prior to the month in which temporary labour prevention occurred, so that it cannot be lower than the minimum earnings established under this law, if the prevention of work is caused by illness or injury outside work, injury to work or professional illness, if the law is not otherwise specified. By retaining a different degree of protection in terms of compensation due to illness or injury at work and out of work, employees shall be placed in an unequal position. In both practical situations, prevention for work-determined circumstances which employees cannot influence and which are objective in particular should be taken into account that an existing solution that foresees that in the case of temporary prevention of work, wages of at least 65% of the average earnings, practices in Serbia, and that people who are in sick times have additional costs in relation to treatment and are not able to provide themselves with an adequate treatment, especially when they have health conditions in mind, and they are also at risk of being further existence. The government did not accept the amendment, given that the impact of the job on the health of the employee was crucial to the absence of work for the case of occupational illness or injury, and that it is justified to pay less compensation when the illness is due...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5071	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5072	... other reasons, not the work he's doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5073	Janko Vesenović, do you want 55 seconds on this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5074	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5075	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5076	You'll give me back these ten seconds. This amendment is very important because we have the worst healthcare system in Europe and because of the fact that someone will have 65% of the salary during their stay is not all about us and let's say in one Germany. That's why we insist that an employee who is on sick leave for up to 30 days receives a 100% salary. I would especially like, by the rights of workers and pensioners, to declare the SPS, PUPS and DPS, who have quite, quite at ease these days, as if this law were not about workers and pensioners. They were very loud in the previous term since 2012 when they were rights of workers and pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5077	Thank you. Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5078	Thank you, President. For the sake of the public and my fellow non-medical colleagues, I would like to say on this amendment that the Government has rightly rejected this amendment, because it is necessary to distinguish between sickness that is not caused by the work of workers and the absence from work resulting from injury to work and professional illness, so I will read the definitions of what it means to be a professional disease, which means injury to work. Professional diseases represent pathological conditions created in direct connection with the regular interest of workers. These are certain diseases caused by the impact of the process and the working conditions of the worker doing the job. These are diseases caused by workplace damage. As far as work injury is concerned, the injury to work is caused by direct and short-term mechanical or chemical fact, as well as by injuries caused by sudden changes in the position of the body, sudden body load or other changes in the physical condition of the organism, provided that the occurrence of the injury is associated with the performance of the work, i.e. work tasks. A little plastic to explain, it's not the same thing when you're in the strug work process, God forbid, you lose your finger or you spoil your stomach at a party, so you can't attend to work because of a side effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5079	The word has been issued by the MP, Dr Milorad Mijatovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5080	Replica, he called me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5081	No, you have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5082	Please, he called SDPS a Social Democratic Party why he kept his mouth shut.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5083	Did he say SDPS, the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5084	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5085	I'm sorry, you're right. I apologize to you. I'll look for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5086	I'll just say one sentence. About this and this law of work as a Social Democrats, I can only keep my mouth shut.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5087	You have no right to replica now. I'm terribly sorry. He said - I can only keep quiet, I don't know why. Ambassador, thank you for your applause. Finally, I'm right. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted the amendment to Article 52. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5088	I suggested that Article 115 be changed and that the employee is now entitled to a salary allowance during the absence of work due to a temporary impediment to work of 30 days and that: at least 65% of the average earnings in the previous three months prior to the month in which the temporary prevention occurred, with that it cannot be lower than the minimum earnings determined in accordance with this law, if the prevention of work is caused by illness or injury outside work, if the law is not different and at a rate of 100% of the average earnings in the previous three months preceding the month in which the temporary prevention occurred, etc. if the prevention of work is caused by injury to work or professional illness, maintenance of pregnancy, maternity leave, absence of child care and absence for special care of the child, if the law is not different. In Article 51. The draft law also provides for a change in the amount of profit compensation in Articles 114 to 116. Labour law, so it is determined at the rate of average earnings in the previous 12 months instead of the previous three months, which we consider to be much more favourable for the employee. During the temporary prevention of work caused by injuries to work, annual vacations, state and religious holidays, etc., employees should receive earnings as if to work, because they must not suffer from the occurrence of these circumstances which they have neither caused nor can affect them. The current legal solution, earnings in the previous three months, is less harmful to the employee than previously proposed, especially if we consider a possible reduction in earnings over the previous 12 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5089	Did you talk about Article 52? Just a message to the MP, he didn't understand you. The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5090	In Article 52, it writes nicely – the change in the place of employment after the completion of the employment contract cannot affect the increase in transport costs that the employer is obliged to make up for the employee at the time of completion of the employment contract without the employer's consent. We believe that, according to this article, there is no need to restrict the right to freedom, and if, by any chance, someone moves and starts a family or something else, which is the side effects of all of this, we feel that they should still be met, because these are not big costs, these are not so big cases. If there is, as it is justly in this situation, abuse in this situation, I believe that mostly every company has its own kind of control that can immediately sanction this problem and should be punished for not changing a single member of the law because of such persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5091	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5092	You see, the reason why this measure was taken is because of a number of abuses. This especially happened in the public sector, very rarely in private. You know, you have an example of a man getting a job in Belgrade, and then he registers with his parents at Vranjska Banja and reports that he has expenses every day. You are right to resolve this by other mechanisms, but you cannot impose an employer's obligation here to follow your change. He may have wanted a worker living in Belgrade, he lives in Belgrade, and he is willing to pay for it. Of course, here the legal solution leaves the employer with the possibility that, in agreement with the employee, the possibility of paying him and some new travel expenses, and we do not prohibit it. So we explicitly leave it to the employer and that possibility, but we don't force him to do it. The employer wanted what he wanted. If there's a change of status, he can estimate whether it's worth it or not. It's not like the Assembly, as you know we've had such examples, so you can hardly sanction it, but here you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5093	The word is from a colleague, Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5094	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We have a strange situation here that just happened. Mr Stefanovic, who is the applicant for the amendment to Article 52. The bill, which says - Article 52 is deleted, shortly before in his speech he was actually talking about an amendment to Article 51. It's probably just a simple mistake. I don't want to insinuate anything. He wasn't in the O.R. It is probably a mistake, and Mr. Milan Petrovic spoke about the amendment to article 52. In my discussion, I would refer to the amendment of Borislav Stefanovic, where he says it is deleted. I believe that this is how the proposed amendment is extremely and absolutely unacceptable to us. I have to ask what it means to you - delete?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5095	Talk to me, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5096	I'm sorry. Almost every amendment is so proposed – deleted. What does that mean? I honestly can't figure it out. In Article 52, this law imposes an obligation on the employer to pay the employee the costs of transport for arrival and departure from work. Then, in Article 52, which amends Article 118 of the current law, the obligation is precisely regulated. I don't think there's any need to change this proposed solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5097	Thank you. Now I have to give my word to Mr. Stefanovic because you were directly addressing, asking questions, arguing about what he was talking about. You have two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5098	I don't mind my colleagues, because he didn't quote good members, and I really don't think that's a problem. You've quoted all the wrong members now in the end. It is important that Petric and I have covered very well-quality amendments to very bad provisions that are being proposed here, and it is much less important whether the change was me or him. Basically, I think I only have to answer that question – what does it mean to delete? There are some amendments and additions to the Labour Act that we simply believe must be deleted because it is impossible to amend them. They are essentially opposed to what the DS stands for in software, ideological, human, humane sense. If you're asking me for motivation, that's motivation. There are some amendments that make clear alternative solutions. I'm sorry if I looked your way. I've been centering that corner there on the roof all the time, but sometimes my eyes turn. I guess that's the emotion they're talking about, and I think it's very important to explain. There's no issue here, and you know it, Madam President, the debate on what the opposition is asking more to suggest within the framework of the amendment. We're not here for any questioning. As far as I understand it, you can make a counter proposal and say - it's no good for your proposal and say why, but I can't hear why, nor hear you reduce the possibility of getting someone fired, nor hear you make a private person not fire someone, nor hear you think you're distracting someone from leaving an employer at a late age and going to a new one unless there's something you're making fun of, and it's called past work. Well, he'll be looking to stay until the end just to keep a higher salary. It's simple and simple. I've really tried to get through the answer to make things clear and not talk about what's motive for making an amendment anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5099	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. There's no replica, but you're using time, since you have plenty of time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5100	Thank you. Let me explain. So, in front of me is a document, a public one, which we received from professional services, a proposal for an amendment to Article 52. The bill, submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. So, Article 52. It is proposed to indicate – Article 52 is deleted. It's not my fault. I just read what I got officially. But, Mr. Stefanovic, I don't see any reason to be funny, to be in a good mood. I really don't see where you're coming from, and I don't see why you're in a good mood.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5101	Ambassador, please. Thank you. We've made it clear if it's 52. The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blaža Bradic together submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5102	Thank you, Madam President. This article shall define the right to compensation for expenses. This includes the arrival and departure of work, the time spent on the official journey, etc., and this member of the law would be acceptable if there was no last position actually derogating, which is contradictory to point 1 of point 1 of this attitude, which actually says that the employee has no compensation for leaving and coming from work if he changes the place of residence, or changes the place of residence and goes away from there. The amendment removes the situation in which the employer crosses the burden of cost of leaving and coming from work on the employee in case of a change in the place of residence. The government gave its answer and the minister had just yet elaborated it, arguing that there were some abuses as well. Of course, I agree that all abuses should be warned and that there are mechanisms for this. Secondly, as is known, the risk on the part of the employer is also a risk on the part of the employee, who is, as an illustration works, forced to change the place of residence or had to move from one city to another for the sake of family members, due to sickness or anything else. In addition, in one municipality, employees can move to a distance of four kilometers and are forced to use transportation without having previously used transportation because they lived in the center of the city. Due to such a provision proposed by the government, employees in such situations are practically financed by the employer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5103	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5104	Thank you. I suggest that the proposed amendment be rejected. The explanation we got from the government is very precise. I'm going to give myself the freedom to give a more general explanation on my part. As you can see, the fundamental intention of proposing this legal solution in this article in the way proposed is to prevent abuses. We can give ourselves another minute of comfort to talk business logic, why this solution is good, how much it makes sense. The proposed member, i.e. the disputed position, in particular, disputed for the amendment promoter who would like to remove that position, does not say anything until there is no employer's duty to automatically compensate for the costs of transport that did not exist at the time of the conclusion of the contract, and therefore do not constitute part of the contractual obligation. Nowhere does it appear that under the obligation of practice it will mean that someone who has higher travel costs must automatically carry them alone. If he finds a common language with the employer and it is dealt with in the best way by direct agreement, why would it represent any difficult circumstances? If he doesn't, it's something we have to respect, it's something we have to take care of. The deal's a deal. Nothing more than that and, of course, there's no bad intentions in this, hence negative repercussions. All you ask for is what's logical and what's fair, so there's no automation that violates the deal, that the deal is tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5105	Thank you. There's no replica when everyone's taking their stand. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5106	Just to be exact this time. We propose to delete this article, which means it remains a member as it has been in the Labour Law so far. We believe that the adoption of this amendment would allow and prevent employees from being brought into a more unfavourable economic position, as the proposed change in employee severance is reduced from three to two average earnings, which is a negligible savings for the employer, and you will agree, a greater blow to employees who will receive the first next compensation only after obtaining a pension solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5107	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5108	Thank you. Article 54, which refers to Article 121, refers to the way in which the account of earnings is delivered. We propose that, after Article 4, paragraphs 5 to 8, where it is said that the delivery of the invoices in electronic form should be an exception to the lettering rule, and the amendment provides for this type of delivery exclusively with the consent of the employee, which we think is very important. The new position is closer to regulating the orderly delivery of the electronic form as executive documents, so it is necessary for employees to confirm that the bill was received, which is very important, and in this way avoid possible failures in delivery, and delivery is essential for the exercise of the right and possible investment of the legal remedy. The government has not accepted the amendment for the reason that the way in which it is delivered, it says, the accounting of earnings and earnings should primarily be the decision of the employer in accordance with its options, in order to facilitate unnecessary administration, etc. We think it's not an employer's decision, it's a legislator's decision to make. If everything is on the employer, as the Government says in its opinion, why do we regulate this area by law? The amendment gave a quality explanation which also makes it important for the consent of the employee at the reception of the invoice by electronic means and acceptance confirmation. From the moment the act is received, I will repeat, deadlines begin. This is very important, as the process category are relevant for achieving a whole series of material rights. In addition, I consider it important for the employer whether an employee has received an individual legal act such as this document. I'd like to get an explanation as to why it's unnecessary to oblige the employer to have confirmation that the worker has received a profit account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5109	Thank you. The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Sabine Dazdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5110	President-in-Office, by amendment to Article 54. The draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act provides for the possibility for employees to choose their own way of making an account for the payment of earnings and the remuneration of earnings, in a way that suits them the most. Since the generations of employees are different, it is necessary to leave jobs, from different age and other categories, to determine for themselves how the most appropriate reception of the accounts, whether it will be electronic or written, or whether it is necessary to make their decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5111	The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5112	The government's explanation here is clear and we're heading for digitalization. I really don't see any big reason why we have to make the employer do all this on paper. This is paper and it's the way it is. I'm reporting primarily for this Article 121 when we got to it. The provisions of Article 121 are something that is truly revolutionary in this law. For the first time, the worker becomes, in the right sense, the master of his profit. He's never been able to show his profits before, we can say freely, as a note. At the end of the month, a checklist shall be issued to the worker. Based on that accounting list, he's able to prove his claim, he doesn't need a lawyer, he doesn't need an expert. The employer is obliged to keep records of this, it is only necessary to match those two things in one hearing and nothing more. So for the first time since 2000, the worker is, in the right sense, the owner of his income. It's sad that we have to do it, but that's how it is, and we do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5113	The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blažja Bradić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. There is a word, the Messenger of the people, Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5114	We believe that in Article 56, in Article 2, after the word "other economic operator", the point is placed instead of the comma and the rest of the sentence is deleted. Why do we think that? The liability for the business of the economic operator shall be borne by the founder, or a member of a company, and it shall be illogical and illogical for those persons to exercise their rights in the legal entity over which the bankruptcy proceedings have been opened and whose founders, whether or not they have established a working relationship. The government has not accepted the amendment for reasons that any person in a working relationship should be entitled to pay off claims under the Solidarity Fund procedure. That's the government's position. We ask you – does your position mean that the owner of the company, which is most often the director, cannot abuse this situation in such a way that in a period such as the year before the bankruptcy is launched, will prescribe a salary of 3,000 euros and thus obtain a legal basis for asking the Solidarity Fund for a sum of 36,000 euros? You have not accepted the amendment which the employer undertakes to deliver to the employee a copy of the insurance application. You did not accept the amendment that the employer must deliver a profit account to the employee. You're the least reprehensible. In this particular situation, you protect even the tycoon's rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5115	The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Chapo.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5116	The LSV parliamentary group has proposed an amendment relating to the request of employees in the event of insolvency proceedings and is primarily referred to in Article 56. That's attitude 4. We propose that this member is – the right to pay the claim under Article 1 does not have an employee if a solution has been made to confirm the adoption of the employer's reorganisation plan over which bankruptcy proceedings are opened in accordance with the law. We suggest that Article 56, paragraph 4, be deleted, because we believe that the right to pay off earnings, as an equivalent for invested work, is derivated by the rights of employees in the event of the employer’s bankruptcy. Why is the right of employees to compensation from the Solidarity Fund denied, if the employer has initiated the reorganisation process? The Solidarity Fund is the basis for the state to protect employees from employer bankruptcy, thus harmonising our standards with the EU's insolvency directive. We think a normal solution would be to compensate employees in the reorganisation process for the unpaid part of the profits, because the Fund only makes minimum earnings for nine months of work before the bankruptcy is opened. The reorganisation process lasts for a period of time, and then there can be layoffs of employees, so we ask ourselves, when will the employees make a profit and will they ever make it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5117	National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted the amendment to Article 63. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5118	We ask that the text of article 65 be changed and that the employee be paid a severance fee as determined by the general act or contract of work, and that the severance may not be lower than a third of the employee's salary for each completed year in a working relationship, unless the employee has already obtained the right to compensation due to the termination of the employment relationship based on the excess employees of the previous employer. The proposed amendment therefore brings about a fairer solution and removes a more unfavourable position for young people and those who often change jobs and employers because of the nature of business. The proposed amendment protects all categories of employees and pays for the fair severance amounting to a sum of a third of the earnings for the whole working period, not only for the internship of the last employer, as proposed by the legislator. We are not for the employee to receive more than once the severance payment for the same period of work, by changing employers, but we are not for each severance to be reduced to several years of work by the last employer, which will be the case as a result of resolving company employees' issues in restructuring. Employees who are already sufficiently self-absorbed, without basic labour rights and normal earnings, now that they are resolved in a package of economic measures by layoffs, the same ones who are lucky enough to be hired under the old days, if they are declared a surplus, will be able to make a solemn departure at the cost of barely one profit, as much as they would have in three years’ time of employment with a new employer. That's why we think it's not fair and we're proposing this appropriate replacement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5119	The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5120	This is one of the essential reasons why we're changing the Labour Act and of course this is an unacceptable amendment, because so far we've had what the speaker so far has pointed out, but we've seen a fully de-stimulative employment system. You know, it's always good to go. If you were a private man, would you hire a person who is 20 or 30 years of employment to pay him back? Hardly. Let's be constructive and realistic. This is a member who, I agree, may be more unfavourable for workers, but certainly more favourable in that it stimulates employment unlike what we've had so far, and where we've had a complete destimulation of employment and where no employer was willing to hire a worker, especially if he had more than twenty or thirty years of employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5121	The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with my colleague who was now speaking, I should refuse this amendment. I think this is actually the best solution from this bill that we've got for severance, to pay off only to the employer where the last radio was employed. Serbia is otherwise a unique country in which compensation is paid for the entire internship, and we have had so many abuses that the employers pay the entire severance fee, so a working relationship is established in another public enterprise. For example, in 2010 or 2011, I don't know exactly, we had a civil servant who worked at the Pension Fund took over 20,000 euros in severance and then took a job in the Republic Directorate. And we also had an example from Novi Sad while Mr. Igor Pavlicic was mayor of Novi Sad, when the same state official employed in a public utility took a severance fee of over a million dinars and then took a job in another public company. That was all allowed, unfortunately, to the 2005 legal solution. That's why I think this is really the best solution this law gives, because something like this will never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5123	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5124	Thank you. Therefore, in the context of all this said is indeed one of the main qualities of the proposed legislative solution, and hence the amendment that proposes corrections and erasures in this matter which is undeniably good and undeniably not to be accepted. As we have heard, it is about situations that directly regulate the handling of cases where an employee is a man who has lost his job and is located at the very end of the working century, and therefore the legal solution found in the current law implies the need to comply with the overall internship, he gets compensation if he loses his job. Known from practice, we really don't need to waste words about how difficult this environment is for a man who's looking for a new job, talking to employers. The employer, due to the uncertainty of his own business, is thinking ahead of schedule about whether he will be obliged to pay the person for a substantial severance payment tomorrow. This is the point. In addition to all of this, there are fully examples from the practice that we have had multiple abuses of the right to receive severance, but this is essential, and it is our duty, I repeat once again to ensure the competitiveness of our labour market, that those who are directly before retirement are not found tomorrow because of this in a difficult position in a situation that prevents them from resolving the issue of their work, only because they are in front of retirement. That they are as competitive as those who do not withdraw with their status the automatic need for large severances from tomorrow by the employer. And that's literally everything. When it comes to competitiveness in our labour market, it is true and unfortunately, defeating the fact that according to international research, we are at a high sign 119 of 148 countries surveyed. That just because we haven't been promoted in relation to the previous measurement, we've gone backwards, so then we've been 100, now we're 119, and just because there's nothing further wrong with us and in our system, but we don't change solutions, we don't follow the time, we don't catch a step, we keep going back, and that's why we need to react immediately and in a way that's proposed by the legislator or legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5125	I'll give you my word, you're wasting your time. It's time for the head of the parliamentary group. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5126	I have to thank Dr. Orlic for the constructive performance and discussion of the essence of the amendments, and not about some other things, but I must stress that I still do not see any connection between the legal solutions that the Government, which you support, is also proposing that employment that is permanent or employment, as it is grammatically correct, which you are constantly pointing out in this Assembly. Please explain to me how this provision will lead to a higher employment rate for Serbian citizens? I still don't understand. What is problematic about the amendment that says - that he should not, unless he has made a severance payment based on extra employees, so we are evicting abuse from the table and leaving a provision that gives a third per year which is completed. Just to try to save people who are in companies in a difficult situation, and who, based on these provisions, will come into a much more unfavourable position than they have ever been, which is if I understand you in line with your programming concept. But I can't understand how you can't see it's really focused on those people who have suffered the most in the last 20 years in our economy. These people will be affected by this, because they will look at any cost to stay and at any cost to hold onto the place. You won't speed up the employment dynamics. I don't see it. Please show me some empirical or otherwise a connection between, say, these provisions and new employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5127	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5128	You see, no law in itself will allow employment, but all laws will. And everything we do together will. Let's leave everything the way it was and enjoy this beauty that we're living in right now, so we don't change anything if it's possible. That would be the best and the smartest. Of course we'll change, that's what we have to do. Since you have spoken essentially, you have thought of an amendment to the enterprises in restructuring, in the transitional and final provisions of this law, it is envisaged that the position of the company in restructuring will be regulated by a special law So, as you can see, regardless of the numerous criticisms that we are taking too much care of the enterprises in restructuring, we are taking care of those who are really most difficult and that is why we have foreseen it in this way. That was also the deal on the working group between unions, employers and us. So we're taking care of it. It'll even be a special law on people who are really the hardest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5129	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5130	I'll be brief, since I've been invited to give a certain explanation. I think the colleague who asked for an explanation and I take care of the same thing, but from different angles. So if we talk in the best interests of the workers, I agree, that's what we need to be disturbed by this law too, but also generally in the business we do. It's very plastic, it's a situation where a man who is at the end of his working century doesn't choose to change his employer himself, I analyze the scenario in which he is in a position to lose his job, and the question is what happens next. One who is able to choose, it is already a far different situation, a far more suitable scenario, and then it is a far less consequence if he chooses to stay working, if he decides to reduce the risk by himself. It's still a matter of free choice. I'm interested in a situation where there's no free choice and where a man gets in trouble because of it. Uncompromising, because it is burdensome that tomorrow's employer, first of all, will observe potential severance through it and therefore be discouraged to engage him in work and therefore our hypothetical man, from some imaginary story, stories that unfortunately have all around us, but we simply don't hold on to specific names in the case, runs out of work very long. That's what this proposal changes. He's becoming more competitive on the labour market. That's the essence of what we're talking about today. I believe it was more than clear if someone wanted to understand. If he doesn't want to, I'm afraid he doesn't exist clearly enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5131	The word has been made by MP Alexander Jovicic, the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5132	The President-in-Office, the MPs, should essentially look at these amendments and the additions of laws not always from the corner of employees who are in public enterprises or to say on the burden of the state. We know how you are always employed in the public sector and everyone has a desire to work in the public sector. However, these laws should also facilitate the development of the economy in Serbia, which is the private sector that is necessary to strengthen so that we can expect our economy to move forward. So today, in all the discussions on the other hand, in most cases, we see some struggle for some severance, and we know that severances are paid the most in public enterprises, i.e. under the state's cap, and in most cases back, for decades, it has been very often abused. So let us all try together to find solutions to strengthen the private sector and to make the wish of all of us in Serbia work in the private sector, for a private person, or to be private, and not always on the state's mantle, and we know in what state our budget has been in and how the economy has been run over the past 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5133	Thank you. The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5134	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, first of all, I congratulate you, working all day from 10 a.m., do not leave the bench. You can tell you're exhausted. My proposal for amendments and additions to this amendment refers to making a difference. We know that in Serbia today, more than 140,000 entrepreneurs who mostly work alone, have no lawyers, have no legal services, have no means to single out for possible lawyer engagements, etc., whether or not to agree with one truth, is that without a small child, there is no big man, or today it is only realistic to hire in this small economy, i.e. in a private enterprise that employs more than 140,000 today. If we were to create more favourable conditions than other economies, large economy, oronula, failure, especially firms, we know how many there are in restructuring, giants who have seven, eight years of cramping, in restructuring, I say this more often – the patient has suffered clinical death, does not get up, lies on the table, and besides it pass hundreds of patients waiting for a favor, and he neither gets up nor dies. It is good that already in the autumn, it will have to come to the topic and resolve firms in restructuring that, in some ways, people of the skilled regime, by making such decisions, have violated the constitutional right of equality. No one has the right to be exempt from paying obligations and from disrespecting the law, as they have done so far. I mean, firms in restructuring. It has everywhere in the world, the terms of restructuring are applied and there is a rule in developed countries of Europe where I lived, worked and ran my firm until 1985, but this is a condition that it works three to five months maximum. What's restructuring? To add saldo minus plus plus, to add to what resources it has, which raw materials, which are claims, then add minus plus plus, the balance plus goes on, minus balance goes into bankruptcy, end. However, the constitution guaranteeing equal rights and obligations has been violated, and these companies are full of seven, eight years, more, let them be less restructured. May God help us to solve this problem. Normally, the unions that came here today to interfere with our work, I don't know where the seven-eight were when the flag fell apart, the MIN, the electric industry, etc. To get back on the subject, on the proposal of my amendment. With this amendment, I wanted as an experienced industrialist, 39 years old and an employer, to help small businesses, entrepreneurs create potentially more favourable conditions for them to dare hire someone who ended in 55, 57, 58 years, etc. And in such a way as to unburden them, unlike medium and large enterprises, where I belong and where my company belongs. Why? Because if he's supposed to pay 960,000 1/3 for every year, for five years it's about 1.5 million dinars. I'm afraid he'll have a hard time accepting to hire an older employee, or an older generation waiting for work or waiting to retire for two, three, five years. In this way, they would allow or create some benefits for these small businesses and entrepreneurs who in 99% of cases do not use any benefits, no employment benefits, unlike large gigans and companies, especially if it is a foreign company. We know how it's been so far, 10,000 euros per employee, etc. He never had a chance to do that, because he needs to hire over 10 workers and more. I would ask you once again to consider being a competent minister, as a representative of the Government, it is your jurisdiction, or the Government, that, if not now, you will find some stimulating solutions for employment as soon as possible. Realistically, in this sector that employs 140,000, where luck if we hired 0.5 workers each, we would have 70,000 and some employees over the next six months, a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5135	Thank you. Members of the 65th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Vesna Martinović and joint MPs: Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5136	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Article 65 refers to Article 158 which speaks of the payment of severance and we suggest that paragraph 5 be deleted. The position of the 5th member shall stipulate that the general act or contract of employment may not determine a longer period for the payment of severances, or for the determination of the amount of severance from the period laid down in paragraphs 2 and 3 of that Article. This solution is in collegiate with Articles 8 and 9. The labour law, which provides for a general act or contract of employment, can establish greater labour rights and conditions than those laid down in the law. For those reasons, the amendment shall require the removal of attitude 5. The government did not accept the amendment for the reason that there is no collapsing of the Labour Act, because the same regulation by the General Act can determine greater rights only if the law is not otherwise laid down. As the draft law specifies precisely that the period for which the payment of the severance may be determined only by law, there is no conflict to which the amendment indicates. The basic principle of labour law is that lower legal acts can establish higher employee rights. The law can only limit this principle to exceptional, it is not clear what the proposer's motive was when he decided to interfere in advance with the employer's and employee's relations and to prohibit them from agreeing more favourable terms for the employee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5137	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin. The time of the MPs' group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5138	So the amendment is unacceptable. Once again, I will remind you of what the amendment to article 158. The amendment of Article 158 proposes that when the redundancies are paid, only a period of working relationship with the last employer shall be taken into account and the amount of the severance shall be determined in accordance with the general act or contract of employment and may not be lower than the collection of a third of the employee's salary for each completed year of work in a working relationship with the employer where the right to compensation is exercised. That it cannot be paid for the same period for which it was paid to the same employer or other employer. The main objective of this change is to prevent the occurrence that employees who have met the conditions on the same basis receive multiple severances, as well as the abuses mentioned by their colleague. Also, this defined provision directly encourages employers to hire new persons and prevents discrimination against older people whom employers did not want to hire because of the obligation to pay large severances. As far as attitude 5 is concerned. Therefore, paragraph 5 provides for the following - a general act or contract on work cannot be established for a longer period of payment of the severance from the period set out in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article. So, this attitude is just up to this change, and it makes it impossible for employers, for example, in a public enterprise like before, to pursue the objective of this amendment through the managing authority that I mentioned by making a decision with general acts to pay for the severance and during the work of another company and by, as I said, to play the law. That's exactly why I don't think we should erase attitude 5 of this shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5139	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic to Article 66. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5140	In Article 66, the employee may be temporarily away from work if criminal prosecution is initiated against him in accordance with the law for a criminal offence committed at work or in connection with work. We believe, although there are elements after criminal charges to continue with criminal prosecution, that it has simply not yet been proven and that there can be one problem. What if that person doesn't get convicted? I know there's a situation in one company where seven years of people complain and imagine damage to the employer after that, if they have to get them back to work, and they just happen not to be convicted. Imagine that situation, what a financial problem it is for the employer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5141	National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 68th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 70th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Sabina Dazdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5142	Thank you, Your Honor. We suggest that article 70 be deleted. This amendment brings about a harmonisation with the amendment that we have submitted, and with regard to Article 47, because this Member of the bill also creates an additional framework so that the employment contract for employees who worked with several employers does not include the total work experience in past work. So this amendment also eliminates the consequences that would have had the solution offered in the Bill's proposal, which would create a framework for further downsizing employees' earnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5143	Thank you. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5144	Article 72 provides for Article 172a, I request that it be deleted, which reads – if it is necessary for a certain job to be executed without delay, an employee may be temporarily transferred to other relevant jobs based on a settlement without the complete annex of the contract within the meaning of Article 172 of this Act, and for a maximum period of 45 working days within 12 months. Very suspicious form. What's a certain job that's done without delay? What's the definition of that? Every job in a serious company has to be done without delay. That's the definition of one serious business. There are no jobs we can postpone. It does not exist in any serious company, so it is practically impossible for an employer to surprise a job that is such that he has to move someone to another workplace to 45 working days over the course of one year. This is an opportunity for various manipulations by the employer, since it is not defined exactly what an urgent job is, to invent jobs that must be done without delay and thus to force a worker to do something that he is not trained or has no physical or psychological capacity to do. Then it can lead to various injuries or work discipline or to force the employee to quit because he won't be able to do those jobs. I think this is a solution that gives no security to workers, and I don't think serious employers need this kind of a way to deal with their workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5145	I thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5146	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only ask that MPs not read one position in a member who has a handful of views and comment on one attitude. If it writes what the Proposer of this amendment said – if it is necessary for a particular job to be done without delay, let's say, in the restoration of Obrenovac, in the restoration of companies that have suffered damage, they are from Belgrade and they have an outpost in Obrenovac, so it is normal that this job will work. However, Article 2 should also be read, and should be sufficiently fair and responsible and said, and in that position 2 is said – in the case of transfers under Article 1 of this Article, the staff shall retain the basic earnings established for the job for which it is transferred, if that is more favourable for the employee. What's gonna be bad for an employee? Nothing. He keeps his salary, he'll help the company he's working with, if one part of that company is compromised, or if it's necessary for him to spend 45 days a year somewhere else, outside of that job. In this I do not see anything controversial, just ask you to read in the explanation of the amendment a careful attitude, a member per member, what you predict to delete, because as the promoter predicted, the employee is both provided and materially and with a working relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5147	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Zivkovic, you have no basis for replication. According to the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5148	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am to reject this amendment, because it does not offer a solution that would be such to advance this member, to enlarge both the member and the law, but to offer something that should make it very difficult for workers. If you're an employer or if you're a worker, if your firm deals with multiple jobs and if that's a small number of employees, there's always something that makes someone move, let's say they're role models. So, there may be a need for a tractor to be a combiner, etc., with this member being even more entrenched by him offering that one who is moved to another job for 45 days cannot be in a certain way punished, and no less profit, unless that profit is offered is more favourable. So he can only be paid better if he moves to do some work within 45 days. In practice, it looks like this. You all know what season-type jobs are like. If a worker works in a farm and, for example, a vineyard needs to be cut, you need to move someone to finish the job. The job ends within a period of less than 45 days and such an employee who cuts vineyards cannot have a salary less than he had before he went to do the additional work. Also, after that, he returns to his workplace and, after a certain period, he drives a tractor. However, there is a need to wash the vineyard. So you have to send a worker with a sprinkler, because there's a need. So they don't fire him, so they don't hire someone else, you move the worker from one position and send him to clean up that vineyard. So, after the cut, that's what's coming. Now comes the most important thing. So the worker returns to his post and now there is a need to take the vineyard and knock it down. If the winemaker was worthy, if the workers were worthy, if this member of the law existed, unless the amendment has been deleted, and the amendment promoter, there is a need for the amendment to send its employee temporarily to bring down the vineyard in Fruszko Gora and such an employee cannot have less personal income in harvest than he had before he went into the harvest. So, it can be because the stork was good, that subsidies and incentives were good for both the promoter and the owner. Since the kin, the offering was good, after the boss profited, then the profits can only be higher and therefore, in this basic member of the law, without amendments, it says that the worker can't make less money than when he drives a tractor, when he picks a vineyard, he must have the same income, and he can have a bigger one. I believe that the employer, in this case the legislator, would, if the harvest was well done, be rich, if it promised a good noble wine. So I believe that such an employer would reward workers, and indeed the legislators who left this member and did not vote on such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5149	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted the amendment to Article 72. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5150	You should not tolerate such ridicule to workers in Serbia. I don't think it's correct, but I can see you're having a great time. You're having a lot of fun, and you're very funny, really. So this provision introduces that employees can be transferred up to 45 days a year to other relevant jobs without an annex to work, it's true. The provision creates an opportunity for abuse and mobbing that was not spoken of by a colleague. That's why we're proposing to delete this decision. So, the same salary is retained, it is moved to second place, and the provisions of the mobbing law are in practice, it has proved completely not applicable, because it is a subject which, especially in Serbia, is hard to prove and sanction. If it enables the employer to move employees to other jobs as he pleases, and since we've been listening to fun and life-saving a little while ago, this could be a great system for the employer to mobilize employees and put extra pressure on them, and so we thought we should delete it, not create a theater in the house so I don't say anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5151	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. I suppose the MPs admired the skill of the speaker explaining the amendment now spoken of. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Jovicic, please come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5152	Article 106 has been injured. The previous speaker said that our parliamentary group is disdaining employees in Serbia, which is completely incorrect. Yes, if we are already talking about the demeaning of workers in Serbia, I would like to remind a previous speaker who has been demeaning citizens and employees and how you work so hard for them today, and in the past ten years, 644 have failed privatisation. One more thing, today you were calling for someone to go out with you in front of the citizens, i.e. In front of union representatives and union members, in front of the National Assembly, but I don't know why the one who didn't come and disrespected them, which is Bojan Pajtic, and we saw the statements he made in 2001, that reforms needed Serbia, that only healthy reforms could improve the situation in the economy. And now from a liberal Democrats, we've come to a Bolshevik, a man who is, is a revolutionary, who is fighting for the rights of citizens. First he robs them, and today he fights for their rights. It's a humiliation, it's a scandal for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5153	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5154	Mr. Chairman, a dramatic violation of Articles 106 and 107. Inappropriate address, direct address, completely off topic, completely beyond anything we've talked about just ten seconds earlier, and as part of this, I'd say, a really pointless addition to the amendments to the opposition that are trying like this, ten to one, as the MPs of the majority are used to. Is it possible that no one here can say anything without saying that someone was a liberal, and now it's a Bolshevik where I can guarantee that a colleague, with deep respect for his youth, doesn't know what a Bolshevik would have said otherwise. Which, I'm sure the minister agrees, is not so offensive, you know, especially if you know what's on the other side, and on the other hand, you gentlemen were, but you never were. So, what I'm saying is, if you think we're talking as good as any case of amendments, or if we're going to pull out really well, then you vote here what you want. It doesn't make sense, you understand. We say -- employees' rights are violated, and we say why we think they're being violated, we say why we think it's unfavourable, and that's all there is to talk about, and what's not to talk about 50m euros a year for Etihad, paid by taxpayers. Which is not to say how many people you've hired 60,000 people, 70,000 people of party soldiers in public enterprises. Is that turning off the subject?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5155	Mr. Stefanovic, you're doing exactly what you were looking for a replica just now. Please let us all go back to the amendments. There's an amendment to Article 72.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5156	I'm giving you an example. I'm giving you an example of what that looks like. I'm asking you to intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5157	Please, as you have seen, I have interrupted the previous speaker and now I am giving the word to the head of the SNS parliamentary group to Mr Babic, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5158	Infringement of Rules of Procedure 107. I know there are in this room, and we were present when the SNS MPs were sent to the alleys, and now they're putting us somewhere else, saying we're going to crash. You know who's breaking up, Mr. Chairman? The beasts. And you're suffering it. I will not suffer it, not on behalf of the 136 MPs of the SNS, not on behalf of parliamentaryism and discipline and respect and dignity of the National Assembly. I can understand that someone hates it. It's not good. Hate is like a boomerang. He'll be sent to someone else, he'll turn around, and he'll break your head, he'll break your head, he who hates you. And that's what happens to people in this room, but if it honors the SNS that she hired 60,000 people in the state sector, excellent. But that's why you gentlemen hired those other 720 grand. It's a responsibility for 720 grand. One more thing that really bothers me as a MP in my third term. The demand to keep our mouths shut. Why are you breaking up? Why are you picking up? My God, we'll be right out if you guys keep talking. Well, what an understanding of democracy it is if only one side can talk. Only if one party can express its political views. Everybody else, keep quiet. Is it going to be next to get out of this room? No, we won't because the citizens sent us here. Drying out tears or not, you've been erasing tears since 16 March 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5159	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Peric. Mr Stefanovic, which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: I will tell you, if you give me your word? ) Please, just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5160	A member of 108 was injured, therefore, taking care of the order at the session. Why? Because you allowed the previous speaker to replicate again, to enter into a pointless debate, again and say again something that no one on this side has said. He's doing psychoanalysis again and talking about hate, auto-projecting himself in that way as their leader. No one hates anyone. I have to do it a hundred times.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5161	Mr. Stefanovic, you have challenged the replica of the MPs. You've challenged the replica of the SNS. You started using expressions. You're asking to introduce order in this room. You don't let it be done first. Please, let's go back to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5162	What sayings? That's not true. I said one word, he didn't use it for the beast.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5163	Do you want to have a problem at the end of the debate now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5164	I don't want to.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5165	Then please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5166	How am I not to answer Mr. Babic what he said, those offensive things he said?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5167	You're just asking not to mention offensive things.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5168	You give me some advice. Give me some advice on how to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5169	Please, in this room, you're doing it right now. Please, let's get back to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5170	How do you think we work first?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5171	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5172	Article 27 has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5173	Please re-apply. I think Mr. Stefanovic referred to article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5174	Then I'll call Article 107. This is an insult to all the MPs. I know that some people's MPs from the DS are used to dictatorship, they're used to all power, they're used to haughtiness. I know they're used to writing and accusing, of judging, of closing, of arresting. I know they're used to all the haughtiness that comes with power, but I'm just asking you as chairman or president, and if you weren't at that moment, what is it and what is it that measured that a fellow MP of the DS, head of the parliamentary group, assesses whether any exposure is pointless or meaningful. Who's judging? Who gives that grade? With what right?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5175	Nobody.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5176	With what right is he demeaning? Here we are called "they", "kiddishu", "Aley". I know you'd put us in alleys, but the citizens of Serbia put us in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If anyone can judge, they judge the citizens of Serbia. I'm sorry you don't judge anymore, but it's good for Serbia that you don't judge anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5177	Thank you. I really wanted to rest, but thank the MPs for not letting me. Vladimir Djukanovic, by amendment, answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5178	Thank you, Your Honor. It's really worth commenting on what the promoter has submitted. You know, here it comes from the logic that all employers are evil people and anyone who's private is looking forward to making a mobing over a worker. And that's about some logic of self-management socialism. You know, if we look objectively after the mobing was mentioned here, the biggest mobing still took place in public enterprises. He's not at the private. The private is someone who wants to even interfere with workers if they're doing well. So, really, this kind of amendment is completely pointless, unless we want to develop self-government socialism, so that we just, maybe, we can end privates and we all have state-owned businesses and we're all gonna be great. Is that right? But that's just past time and let's just start thinking a little modern. The private is someone who doesn't want to make a move on the worker unless, of course, he's working in a gray zone. I hope you never let anything like that happen again in your life. The private is someone who wants to distract workers so that they can work better for him and, of course, make him a bigger profit and certainly simply develop his job. So let's just go with that logic, not make sense that all privates are evil and that everyone just wants to do your mobing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5179	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5180	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, dear citizens, so here's a great lie about my discussion on the amendment. I was told to make fun of the workers. I did not mock those who cut, nor those who dig, nor did I mock those who spray, nor did I mock those who pick; I mocked the owners who scoff and scoff. He's been messing around all day, and now he wants to change a member. Well, he won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5181	The 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) The MPs: Zoran Zivkovic, Borislav Stefanović, Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamović, Natasa Vučković, Dragoljub Micunović, Vesna Marjanović, Marko Djurisić, Janko Vesenović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr Blažje Bradić submitted the amendment. Who, and one of these has two minutes' rights, you make a deal. An amendment in the same text submitted together, grouped, which will speak for two minutes, you cannot all report as promoters. Excuse me, it says here together in the same text. Who's talking? Since you're reporting from the same parliamentary groups, make a deal. Sabina Dazdarevic, the only one from her parliamentary group. (The People's MP Gordana Komic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Why? I gave my word to Sabina Dazdarevic. I didn't do anything wrong. Here you go. I didn't expect this from you guys. Here you go. I'll take two minutes if you're wrong, then to the head of Parliament, that's the rules. Here you go. Ambassador Komic according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5182	Thank you. It is possible that I heard wrongly, but according to Article 157 and the debate in particular, amendments were submitted by different MPs in the same text. One is MP Zoran Zivkovic, who is entitled to two minutes. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, two minutes, a group of MPs has one of them for two minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5183	That's clear, but you and Stefanovic called together. You two can't go together together, just make a deal. It's all clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5184	I'm not even a bearer of this amendment. Therefore, it is about individual, different applicants of the amendments. If I didn't understand you, that you said it was all MPs and only one to speak, then I apologize to you, if I have heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5185	You didn't understand, together, so listed etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5186	We didn't get along.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5187	You want to vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5188	No, okay, misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5189	Sabina Dazdarevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5190	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 73. The draft law on amendments and additions should be deleted, as this article allows the employer to legally downplay the previous experience of the employee, by not recognising it materially. On the other hand, they'll use this same experience as the employee's work experience for their company's needs, which is kind of two-faced. This amendment, therefore, aims to enable an employee to have the same rights as he had before the reference, as provided for in the law, in the case of a second employer's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5191	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Marko Djurisic, from his group, together.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5192	Thank you, Chairman. Since there have been a lot of regrets here that the amendments proposed by the MPs in the text have been deleted, this is the kind of amendment to a member of the law that talks about erasing. According to the proposal from the Proposer, the position of Article 5, 174, which states that the employment contract is an employee, is referred to as an employee who may be temporarily posted to work with another employer, cannot determine less rights than the right he had with the employer who referred him to work. What this means and why we think it needs to be deleted, because this is a direct violation of the rights of workers. So, Article 174 says that an employer can temporarily, or possibly longer, send an employee to work with another employer, and if you look at the next members, the employee who refuses to go to another employer, gets fired. This situation, the only dam so far, is that this member and this situation is not being abused so that someone would be fired from two steps, by first offering to move on to another employer, under poor conditions, and I say I don't want to, by the employer saying, and then nothing, you get fired and was exactly the position of Article 5. It means they can't determine less rights than the rights he had with the employer who referred him to work. The argument given by the Government is that the draft law provides equal treatment for employees in the same employer. It is simply unsustainable, given that employees who cross will at least be in an unequal position from other employees, because they will be there by contract for a certain time for a maximum year. We think that by erasing this member, space is being opened that many employees will be put in an awkward position that they have to accept worse conditions and transfer to another employer, at their own expense. So I ask you to think very carefully about accepting this amendment, because it preserves the little rights that workers have, that this decision by the employer can't determine minor rights. I repeat, if an employee refuses to sign an annex contract and transfer to the job of another employer, he will be fired under Article 179 of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5193	Thank you. You're out of time. Borislav Stefanovic, did you submit an amendment with Zoran Zivkovic, Dragoljub Micunovic or something? I'm the only one you're making out with. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: No, alone. ) Independently. It's misspelled here, they put you with Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5194	It's not that bad. Thank you. I think Article 73 deletes this provision. Article 73 is deleted because this proposed measure is deleted and completely disappears into oblivion of the provision that employees cannot have less rights with the employer where they are referred to, or to the employer from whom they are referred to work, which, of course, can lead to the fact that the employee is obliged to go to work for less income and less unfavourable and other working conditions than those he had. You know that's possible. Don't just answer – so we can't ideally, we can't know exactly, because our role is to try to do the best we can and avoid the situations that life traps us through its traps and, of course, the traps of your unprofessional rule. But in this sense, employees cannot choose, he does not have equal rights and the promoter of justice this change on the grounds that the application of the existing provisions of Article 174. Position 5 is unclear and that in practice it has been interpreted differently and has led to different positions of employees, etc. The promoter failed to note that these are temporary employees of another employer and who return to the employer who sent them at the end of that period. So, in this sense, just because we know what happens in practice and what people keep informing us, now much more than when we become what you make fun of, I have to say that this provision is certainly not in favour of employees and we don't think it should stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5195	The word is Zoran Zivkovic, the bearer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5196	Thank you. Regardless of the ideological differences between my previous speaker, Mr Stefanovic and myself, because he is from the Social Democratic option, and I from the Liberals, we have the same attitude about this, and I join the argument that my predecessor gave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5197	The word is Zoran Jozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5198	I thank the president. As far as this article is concerned, 73 again tells us that what is essential should be said to the end. If we have in the previous law a defined full member who says – an employee can be temporarily addressed to work with another employer, but one essential thing that no one mentions is that, if the need for his employment with the current employer has currently ceased, it is very important that he can be referred to another employer. It's easier for the employer to declare it a technological surplus. Then why don't you have less rights with the other employer? I don't see any reason for that. If he happens to be here working on the systematization of more complex jobs, at the first employer, and he goes to someone else who does less complex jobs, jobs that are intended for less compensation or something else, then I guess it's normal for him to get paid or have other rights like those workers who do the same jobs with that other employer. Once again, let me just tell this DS specialist when she says we should try to do the best we can, so what does that mean, fire another 350,000 workers? What you could do best was you did between 2008 and 2012, and that's less work for 350,000 workers. What else? We talk several times about some debts and about the external and internal debt of the Serbian state. I don't know where you found those six billion euros, when you made a nine billion-dollar debt from 2008 to 2012. It's statistics. Look at that over there. It's a shame to admit what you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5199	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5200	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to join the argument just made by my colleague, and once again, I would like to interpret the proposed solution in a way that was formulated by the motionor or by the government in a member who was proposed to be corrected, and I certainly do not support this correction. So I think it should remain defined in the way the government did, once again observed through the prism of the employee's interest. So, the essence really needs to be found in the words that a colleague, a previous speaker, has begun exposure. We're missing the context which is the essence of everything. The need to hire workers has temporarily ceased. Can context be different? It is logical if the employer deprives his employee of the service that there is then something called the end of the need, that does it not gladly. He will no longer enjoy the fruits of his work alone, leave it to someone else. What are these circumstances, mostly, we know very well and what may be the consequences of losing a job, unless there is a need for an employer or another solution to keep a man working. Yes, it's a good solution to keep a man working, if that solution is found through engagement with someone else, so be it. What's so hard on the worker? Perhaps, and perhaps not, that someone else who could take over a worker has different rules, which, for the same job, predicts a different salary, perhaps lower and does not want to take over with automatically defined conditions, hence the worker in this situation is not competitive, not considered. Let's give an opportunity to find a solution when it's really necessary and in the interests of the workers, to keep working on it. Let's leave room to deal with a potential new employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5201	On what basis are you now answering Mr. Stefanovic? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. There's no replica, really no one mentioned you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Mr Jozic, DS, DS specialists. ) You are rebelling, no, he did not say on-line, please do not now whenever we mention some parties to use for two minutes. You're the bearer of the amendment, now you're going to talk, I can't allow a replica, there's no basis, we can't really do this right now. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 74th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, about the amendment, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5202	The employee who gives under this member you're proposing, SNS specialists, an employee who resigns because the employer has committed a violation of his obligation...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5203	Ambassador, the government is proposing an amendment, a correction only to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5204	Government specialists – SNS...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5205	Thank you, the minister will answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5206	An employee who quits because the employer has committed a breach of his obligation must have all the rights as well as in the event of illegal dismissal by employers. Up until now, because of disrespect of the employer's obligation to the employees, the law has given employees the right to cancel a contract on such work and, in addition, to have all rights as well as in the event that their employment relationship has illegally ceased. By repealing this provision, the proposer of employees, whose labour rights in any way have been unlawfully threatened by the employer, brings into an unenviable position that it cannot be known whether he can prove that the employer has been forced to resign in such a way, which would certainly be an unlawful termination of the employment relationship with all its consequences. Perhaps this was also the direct intention of the promoter, in order to force the employee to suffer all possible illegal actions from employment by the employer, without the right to any judicial protection because of the employer's relationship with him, because this is the future we believe in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5207	By amendment, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5208	Here we have once again an opportunity to hear someone go from the wrong logic, that all employers are evil, and he doesn't want to say and what if that worker works well, why would the employer ever fire him? I'd really like to ask you to understand modernity. After all, this labour law makes it easier for you to get fired, but also easier to get a job, so even if you happen to get fired somewhere, or quit, you will surely find a job much faster than you could have done so far. Let's not keep going from the upside logic that all privates, all employers, are bad, that they're mobing and I don't know what to do or press you, that they want to fire you out of pure peace. Most of the time, if we're talking about mobbing, only in state-owned enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5209	Members of the 75th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5210	We don't think all employers are bad, but, I repeat, it's our duty to try to disable those who are to be on a much higher scale, all of us together. Don't input what's not said. Article 75 is deleted according to our proposal because the proposed solutions are added new reasons for firing. Some of the cases related to the employment capacity of the employee and his behaviour have been specified, disrespecting labour discipline and breach of work obligation - unwarranted job absence, alcoholised status, giving incorrect data, etc. and how the employer can determine that he is employed under the fact of alcohol or other intoxicating agents, i.e. that the employer can refer the person employed to an appropriate analysis in a health institution, which can, in our opinion, be the basis for what is called the legal mobing employer. I think the proposed amendment would achieve the retention of the existing reasons for the cancellation and for the forsaking of a number of reasons for the cancellation of collective bargaining and through the conclusion of collective agreements against the specificity of activity in each individual employer or branch. So that's what would be much more useful in this situation, not this rather vague thing that can be roughly, if the most harshly interpreted, I agree, that a certain person who runs a particular company gives him that weapon in his hand to send someone to a doctor whenever he thinks he's an alcoholic or he's using intoxicating drugs. Listening to some people, that might not be so hard to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5211	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5212	I find the amendment unacceptable, especially by eradicating these changes. Now I'll explain why. These amendments to the Labour Act have significantly more precisely defined the cancellation reasons because of the need for practice, since certain employers were not able to cancel the employment contract in the event of certain infringements of labour obligations and in respect of the employee's work discipline, because these cases did not provide for general acts and labour contracts, which was a condition for the cancellation of the labour contract. It is also specified how the employer can determine that he is employed under the fact of alcohol or other intoxicating agents. The new provisions extended the opportunities of the employer to give the measures instead of cancellation and thus provided for fines in terms of 20% of the basic earnings, distance from the 15-day employee and notice with notice of termination. When I look at these provisions without further analysis and looking at the effects of this provision, we can get the wrong impression that they are the same for the benefit of employers. That is not true, however, because these provisions accurately define violations of labour obligations and labour discipline, which prevents employers' self-will from widely interpreting the previous law. Also, precise examples of injury to labour obligations and labour disciplines allow the general acts of the employer to be significantly easier to make in this area, which also allows employees to get acquainted with them and distance themselves from unwanted forms of behaviour and violation of administrative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5213	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear colleagues, this amendment is absolutely, in my opinion, unacceptable and should be rejected, because, as my colleague has explained earlier, very clearly and precisely here a lot, and this part of which was spoken by the applicant of the amendment is crystal clear what this is really about. From 1945 on, we have essentially left in different aggregate states in Serbia to this government, and here we have heard that someone belongs to the Social Democratic, someone belongs to the liberal part of the political spectrum, I have always been the right center, who has been ruling the European Union for a long time, and with this I am proud and what is seen, it is great what is seen, because it would be good for Serbia to start turning more towards this political spectrum, in order to change some things. We often hear about employees and their rights today, but we also talk a little about employers' rights. There are fewer of them mathematically, so they bring fewer votes. Basically, no employers, no investors, no employees. That's so clear. This law takes care of one and the other. I'll give you a concrete example. While U.S. Steel was in the Smederjev Ironworks, at least those years sold alcohol and drank alcohol in glory. Even gum with some percentage of alcohol stopped completely selling in Smedereva. Thank God, “Smederevo Irons, ” and today it remains a practice and something well learned by a good employer. And today, the same system works in Jelizara, no matter what the problems are, and all the workers know that they can't go to work in an alcoholic state, that they can't get drunk at work, and that's punishable, immediately quit. That was the collective agreement. I'm saying again, it can't all be understood by this law. There's something left between employers and unions to agree on. It worked there and, thank God, it's still working today. When a new investor arrives, we hope this year, in a modern steel plant, he will find a disciplined organisation, disciplined workers, disciplined employees who will be able to contribute to the company's better and good work immediately, and thus also the profits of the investee and the larger employees. Some things we need to understand how they work everywhere in the world, to forget something that used to be and never will be again and to adapt to new times, and thus, to the ambience that we create, to adapt our employees. That's what people in Serbia can do. They do it every day at companies all over the world. In companies in many countries, and in America, Canada, Australia, Western Europe, there are even more rigorous laws in the EU than we propose. There are good workers. We have companies here, and they're good workers, who work even under some stricter rules than these here, and they don't complain and they're good and they have good profits. We should apply that to everyone and that all citizens of Serbia accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5215	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5216	This member is just one of those members who corresponds to both the employer and the employee. Excuse me, and what makes more sense than that, what better than having to protect an employee than knowing exactly how he can get fired and what's better for an employer than knowing exactly how only legally he can break a labor contract, and everything else is sanctioned? You know, I'm left, I belong to the ideological left. She's not the left-handed one to protect someone who comes in drunk to work. It has nothing to do with ideology. It has nothing to do with common sense. It's not good for him to come, God forbid, drunk at work, so he can get hurt. Is that supposed to happen to him? These are very clear reasons why you can lose your job and how you can keep your job. It's no different. Unlike the last legal solution, we were very precise here as possible. As soon as you are not precise, you have the possibility of arbitration, and it comes, and it says: "The failure of this or that leads to it." No, I don't. We've been very precise here, and we've taken great care of how this standard must be both for the benefit of workers and for the benefit of the employer. Knowing in advance is for the benefit of workers and for the benefit of the employer. The establishment of clear rules of conduct in a working relationship is also in favour of the employer's benefit. Why would they leave some arbitration where anything like that happens? This is a provision that should certainly not be deleted, which should certainly remain in this legal proposal. As you know, after this, never again will any government and no law be passed without any clear rules that we have brought here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5217	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5218	Thank you, Madam President. I suggest not to accept this amendment by Mr Stefanovic, amendment to Article 75. We've got a situation to erase a member. I really can't figure that out. This is just saying that some representatives of the opposition have decided to try to present a vision of the debate by writing such amendments, but without arguments. Article 75 regulates cases relating to non-compliance with labour discipline and breach of labour obligations and in various situations. They are regulated, as the minister said, in a very precise way and does not allow for abuse. That's why I don't think we should change the solutions we've proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5219	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Zoran Jozic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5220	Thank you, President. This first part of the comment that I wanted to make is also the predecessor and certainly a much better quality minister, and I would like to explain this second part that concerns the amendment promoter and the expert on working and working relations, with an explanation and once again a harsh explanation. I am talking about the fact that it is clearly given and said – the employer can refer the employee to an appropriate analysis at an authorised health institution designated by the employer on his own cost, which is very important. A little while ago, there was a criticism that he could send out every day and do the mobbing. If he wants an employer to send someone to a medical facility every day to do blood work, and that's what the employer pays himself, and at the same time there are no workers who will do some perhaps important jobs, so be my guest. On the other hand, why, if there is a doubt? Due to the arrival of alcohol or other intoxicating agents, i.e. the use of alcohol or other intoxicating agents during working hours and, more importantly, which has or may have an impact on the performance of the work. I believe that all of you in your midst have x examples where we often meet up with workers who come to work in domestic condition. This law protects those workers who do their job fairly and well, because someone has to do the job instead of someone who is under alcohol and who wastes time at the workplace. I see no reason why this member of the law would be deleted and the amendment of the proposing would be adopted. This way, of course, protects the employer, protects and employees and certainly raises the productivity and quality of work in that organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5221	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5222	Thank you. This member of the law is something many employers believe, but many of those honest workers are eager to see. I agree that this member has a bit of a certain right of workers in some way, let's just say, they're disabling, or it's being specified exactly how you can get fired. But by 2005 law, and we see that the amendment's proposer wants to keep it, it's true, you couldn't get fired at all. However, we had a reverse situation, 358,000 people lost their jobs, of which 318,000 people in the private sector. The law protected those people in the public sector who acted on principle – I'm doing nothing, and I'm getting paid. He can't do that anymore. It is therefore important to adopt these changes and complements, and therefore this amendment is unacceptable, because it essentially impairs something called employment because it destimulates employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5223	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic, as a bearer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5224	Listening to one of the colleagues who is from Smederev and who spoke affirmatively about Ju-Es-style and how one serious company managed to introduce some of the rules of the 21st century, rules that benefit both employers and workers, I was ready to withdraw the amendment because I thought that meant changing the political attitude of the SNS. This would mean that the party's policy realised that it was a good time, when there were good privatisations, although the Ju-Es-Stil did not come through privatisation, but through bankruptcy and that it was the memory of a good law that existed back then in 2001, which was corrupt in 2005 and which is not well fixed now, so it votes against it. As we return, not to my credit, but to the credit of the previous speaker, at the time, it was a time when 504,000 people worked in the public sector in Serbia. It was a time when the euro was 62 dinars. It was a time when the foreign debt of the state was below 10 billion. It was a time when 25,000 private companies were established annually in Serbia, and this process happens when people think the country will be better. It was a time that was absolutely positive against what we have today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5225	Thank you. (Dear Shormaz, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Dear Shormaz, from the scene: I was misread. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5226	I don't know what he understood or how he understood his colleague, but here's an explanation. Neither from me nor from the SNS, no one said that Ju-Es-Stil was a bad employer or owner of a hardware store. Of course he was good. I am saddened as Smederjevac that "Ju-Es-Stil" retreated and left that hardware store and our market. But that doesn't mean that privatisation is done in a legitimate way. First of all, it wasn't the Privatization Act that was used, it was the bankruptcy. Secondly, a competent bankruptcy court has been moved from Pogorec to the Trade Court in Belgrade to lead the whole process. Thirdly, there was a lot going on here, the price itself and everything else, which is also the debt that has been accepted in the country, i.e. the taxpayers of the country. A lot of things were unclear in that time, and we say it today. That's a fact. We're not the only ones. The European Commission has placed Jelizara's privatisation in Smederev as one of the controversial, 24 wanted to be checked, so there is nothing controversial about it. That's what I need you to do. That "Ju-Es-style" was a good employer, he was great. I'd be happy if they still wanted to come back and continue that hardware store like they've run it before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5227	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. The Serbian Progressive Party, two minutes, is mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5228	The Serbian Progressive Party is mentioned, the successful privatisations were mentioned at a successful time, the boom of Serbia. These are data from the Privatisation Agency, official data from the Privatisation Agency, which said that in 2003, a total of 217 enterprises in restructuring ended restructuring in 55. Of which the progeny of restructuring was the 2003 government of Zoran Zivkovic, who introduced 21 firms into restructuring and ended restructuring into zero, none. In 2004, something smaller, but 16. Those aren't the worst years, the worst years are just coming. In 2010, the U.S. 82 companies were introduced into restructuring, and the restructuring ended at five. Excellent effects of the privatisation law and economic relations in Serbia. These companies that you introduced into restructuring, and as the Serbian Progressive Party works, two firms introduced into restructuring in 2013 ended in 19. In 2014, two companies were introduced into restructuring and two were completed. Restructure companies have a big problem. Seven hundred fifty million euros cost firms in restructuring, cost from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The progenitor of the way and treatment, putting the burden on Serbian citizens, is the government of Zoran Zivkovic. Therefore, the successful privatisation is at least entitled to speak by Mr. Zivkovic. On the other hand, 24 privatisations were broken in 2003. In 2004, there was a break in privatisation at 90 companies. The difference, i.e. the companies in which privatisation was broken, that successful privatisation, 91,437 people you have on your mind, because that number of people worked in companies where the privatisation failed. I will also remind you of the European Commission, I will remind you of the thinking and the report by Verica Barac, I will remind you of the 24 controversial privatisations that needed to be changed by the government. Responsible people, such as Alexander Vukic, needed to take on the obligations of co-ordination of security services in order to end procedures and investigations in these companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5229	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5230	Very interesting speech and mention completely out of context. So I'm talking about power from 2001 to March 2004. That's what I, with pleasure, bear... Will you let me speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5231	Please don't throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5232	It's a time for which I am pleased to bear responsibility. Ethic, criminal and whatever you want. It was a time of good privatisation. That's obvious. The companies that were then restructured were restructured several years later. The concept was then deformed through the later authorities of Vojislav Kostunica and his co-habitation allies, such as the deformed Privatisation Act, as deformed many things. I'm talking about the time of the first three years of democratic power after October 5th and I'm proud of it. As for 24 privatisations, Mrs. Verice Barac and the EU, there are at least one and five cases that are not privatization, you have at least one and five cases, over these five, where it is a controversial privatisation of the state's guilt, not because of the guilt of the Traveler and Serbia's Tourist case. Check it out. "Sartid" and "US-steel" have absolutely nothing to do with the Privatisation Act, neither in the translated meaning nor formally. It was a bankruptcy sale done by the Trade Court, not by the government, or by its agency. Finally, none, unfortunately, of the 24, but of the 224, criminal privatisations done in Serbia, were brought before the court, and you had two and a half years to resolve it. No one did, nor did your highly respected president.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5233	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. We end up in replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5234	I will finish, Mr. Chairman, although we could open the issue of Beopetrola privatisation here, we could open the issue of land sales and buildings around the former CK, the current mouth, tobacco industry. Many survey committees would have to deal with, a lot of U.K.P. would have to deal with, but out of respect, even though I never agreed with that policy, don't get cocky and what someone else did, and especially because someone else, unfortunately, is no longer alive. Don't give in to what was done in 2001, 2002. I was very careful to present information regarding the government run by Mr. Zoran Zivkovic. I did not talk about the time before out of respect for a man who, unfortunately, was no longer among the living and out of respect for what he meant for this country, agreed or disagreed. It's brazen, it's rude to give in to other people's feathers and what was done in 2001 and 2002 to the unfortunate things that happened in 2003. I talked very carefully about the time since March, April, May 2003 and 2004, when the responsibility for the government of the Republic of Serbia had Zoran Zivkovic, when he introduced firms into restructuring, when he put them on the burden and hump of Serbian citizens, when he did not finish and end restructuring, because he didn't care because he had no knowledge, because he had no capacity, but he can turn himself around with someone else's feathers. That's rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5235	Please, I'll give you more replica and we'll end up with a replica. I'm not giving any more words on this. This is no longer a debate about the law, but you've moved on to a completely different field. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5236	Anyone reasonable in this country will not think, in any way, that I want to humiliate, reduce or in any way harm the memory of Dr Zoran Djindjic. I think it's completely pointless. I didn't get up to defend myself for that. When I said I was responsible for the years 2001 to 2004, I took part in the responsibility for the jobs I did, and who doesn't realize that it's part of the responsibility or the full responsibility and who doesn't know how to make the difference, I can't help it, but I can see that there are a lot of people in the Parliament club who could help in an adequate way. What's completely pointless, and that's the issue of genealogy in restructuring. Of course, again the public works, not someone who doesn't want to understand or perhaps doesn't know how to understand, the first firms in restructuring were introduced at the end of 2003, and as the public knows, there were then elections, so that neither in political nor formal terms there was the responsibility of that government that these companies had not completed their restructuring. Finally, I have not heard anyone louder in Serbia since 2004 until the day of today who was so loud against restructuring, against robbery privatisation, against the amendment of the Labour Act that we return, against everything that was badly done in Serbia from 2004 until two years ago. Unfortunately, in the last two years, it's twice as bad as it was in those eight years. Unfortunately, the result is that this government must defend itself to the officers of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5237	Thank you. I'm sorry, I understand you want a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene: I'm sorry, I estimate you won't give me a replica, so I asked for an injury. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5238	So, article 106, you dramatically tolerated leaving the topic, which you opened unnecessaryly, seems to me to be a circle of unnecessary replicas, and plus the speaker has spoken even a minute and 15 seconds longer than what the Rules of Procedure predicted. Thus, we could not hear the problem of Beopetrol, which was privatized by Mr. Sinisha Mali, so he got a job there, so he was ashamed to put it on his website.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5239	Please, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5240	I was just about to hear what's wrong with Beopetrol? I can't wait to hear that. I can't wait for UBPOK to start doing what they're doing right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5241	That's not the point. Please don't, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5242	You know what's gonna be the chairman here?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5243	Thank you. So I accept as to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the part relating to the overrun of time of one minute. Wait a minute, please. So I accepted it and immediately apologized, and that minute we're at the expense of the time they have included, and that's how we solved the problem. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5244	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Infringement of dignity, Article 107. My colleagues in this National Assembly are called these again. I don't know what it's all about anymore. I don't know what that hate is for, that disrespect. For what? Well, I was talking about the boomerang, and here he is, running around my head and coming back to Mr. Stefanovic again. That's the rule of life. Can't you bring enough culture out of the house? Can't you, as chairman, organize as one, respecting your age to gather and to say what a good home education is, what a good way to treat people. On the other hand, you didn't react, Mr. Chairman, and I can understand when someone in the lobby said some things that had nothing to do with the truth, but now it's being brought out here in the National Assembly that someone's guarding us armed guys, T-shirts, jeans, long pipes, short tubes, you know, right here in that central hall, there's reporters, there's cameras, there's cameras. How come no one has seen these long pipes except Zoran Zivkovic, or is he calling them out? Along with those who have been calling for days the Ukrainian script, and thank God it's peaceful Belgrade, there's no one in front of the Assembly. All over Belgrade, all people, a failed project of the Ukrainian script, a Belgrade flight or something. It's not enough to get back into power. The return to power requires a responsible policy led by the SNS. And then when we had 100,000 people in front of the National Assembly behind us, behind those rallys there was not a single broken glass, not a single bottle, we picked up even what was left behind. Now, that's responsible. That's what the citizens of Serbia appreciated...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5245	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5246	... They are already punishing the invocation of the Ukrainian scenario in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5247	I have to answer to Mr. Babic. I'm not in charge of raising people here. Then open a special seminar and I'll be happy to try and do it. So, please, don't put me in a position. If you ask me, I'd really like to have an academic debate here. But you have to admit that there should be mutual will for that. And the minister and I have prayed that we go back to the law, but you must both allow me to do so. Here, four, five come out as commercials for the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, it was during my presidency and who was talking about the way the assembly was demeaning. Please don't honor me. What do I have to do with that? So I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure in any way. If you think you need to plead for the injury, don't you? Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Tomic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5248	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, let's get this debate back to its course as it should look. According to the amendment of the motionors, we had an appeal to the 2001 law and to the very part where we talked about the contract and the work when the contract was terminated, that is to say, the design of the annex of the contract. What did the law say in 2001? He said the employer could offer the employee the conclusion of the annex, said he could offer certain parts of which would be the part where the employee himself would accept the measures in which he would be controlled in the matter of alcohol, and in the matter of blood analysis if drugs were intoxicated. What did we get? In practice, there have been many litigation disputes that have never been settled without talking about severances and obligations and employers and employees having ended through court disputes that have never been prosecuted. The courts were engulfed with such processes, and there was simply a depletion of business activities and employees and employers. The result is that 318,000 went from the private sector to the state sector. Today we are talking about the Labour Act, not work, and today it is simply unheard that someone is talking about representing the rights of workers who do not work, or who have insufficient working ability during working hours and who we support. I therefore propose to the promoter to withdraw this amendment and show in some way that he really wants good for this Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5249	Thank you. Members of the 75th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dejan Nikolic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5250	The member currently under investigation is concerned with provisions which constitute a legal basis for resigning or expressing the measure of disciplinary responsibility. I am pleased that the minister is in defense of the previous amendments that I agreed with, especially that he said he was left-handed, that's good, that all provisions must be clearly set, accurate and precise, in order to be applied. Just one such vague, inaccurate and disputable provision I would like to remove this amendment from the member. The provision is – if his behaviour is thought of by the employee, it is a criminal activity committed at work and in relation to work, not depending on whether a criminal offence has been committed against the employee. I'm saying you're erasing it. Because you're saying that the employer will appreciate whether it's a crime, because there's no procedure and no criminal record. The government tells me in an explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the proposed basis for the cancellation of the labour contract refers to the behaviour of the worker and of the work, which is a criminal activity and can be sanctioned by the employer as a failure to respect work discipline, with the possibility and to give the appropriate measures depending on the severity of the work and its consequences. The employer doesn't establish a criminal offence because it's in the jurisdiction of the criminal court, that's what I'm saying. You inaccurately, vaguely, indeterminately, the one I want to delete, you place the employer without a procedure to appreciate that something is a crime. Since this is one of the last amendments I submitted to the Labour Act, just a brief remark. In September of the month when workers first get a profit account cut by 2% in the public sector...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5251	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5252	... and about 8% in the private sector, all political folklore will fall into the water and remain only what should be the topic and now – the reality in which we live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5253	The word is made by MP Dragan Shormaz, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5254	This amendment should absolutely be rejected. This definition must remain in the law. It's so precise and clear that I don't understand how it's not clear to anyone. I am not interested in folklore, again I am speaking as someone who thinks Serbia needs to change its environment and allow employers, people who want to start jobs to have the opportunity to do it, and that our workers who want to do it and who need to work, both younger and older, and this law allows them to work under the same conditions as I repeat, work in the EU Member States, Canada, America, anywhere in the world, just not in North Korea and Cuba, with solutions like it says in this attitude. It's absolutely clear that if it were different, it would mean the next thing you know, and we talked about security earlier and how it's supposed to be to secure a job for a worker. Imagine the situation, the chocolate factory, the worker likes to eat chocolate, the employee puts a few boxes in his pocket, and the security gate catches him in it. It's a crime, it's stealing. What does an employer need now, and there can be far more valuable things, to initiate a criminal procedure, to wait for the court to finish the job so that the worker can quit? It is absolutely a fact that something has been done that, as it says here, behavior is a crime-execution business. For example, from Section 4, a drunk worker comes in, we wipe attitude 4, as requested, and another employee breaks his head, and we all know that this crime is a crime. What, wait for the court, or the employer to wait for the court to rule? No, I don't. And if someone is going to file a criminal case, whether it's going to be tried for it, it's quite another thing, but if his behavior is a crime-making operation done at work and related to work, regardless of whether or not the procedure is initiated, we need to allow that there is a normal, civilized atmosphere in the workplace and that none of us can behave the way either of us would like to have someone behave in his house or anywhere else, anyway, not in the environment in which we work. That is why this is clear, precise and does not constitute any violation of the rights of workers, but is exactly protecting even employees from all those who do not behave in accordance with the law, even if we will, and with the Code of Criminal Procedure, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5255	Mrs. Comic on what grounds? (Gordana Comić, from the place: Replica. ) Please, he didn't mention you, he spoke of his vision of the amendment. So I don't think you have the right to a replica. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Pajovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5256	I'd say just a few sentences about this amendment and tie it to measures of disrespect for work discipline. In short, I could say that the same interest should be given here by workers and unions, both employees and those who are waiting for work, and representatives of parties currently in power and currently in opposition. In Serbia, work environments should be improved and, once and for the future, what work is quality, and what is unquality work and what is a relationship to work. Because we need to be honest that despite a number of private sector workers, a similar number of employees in the state sector and a large army of unemployed young people who are waiting for work, we have a really big problem with workers in the state sector. In fact, I'm saying that disrespect for work discipline and incorrect, unquality work and a bad attitude towards work and means to work. That is why I believe that this amendment should in general be supported, that there must be effective measures to sanction workers, or those who are not workers, which are most often protected by trade unions. Workers are employed indefinitely in the state sector, especially in public enterprises and in all budgetary institutions and how they use it. You don't respect working hours and you do unskilled work. I think it will also benefit everyone in the future if our working environment and working discipline is on a higher level. I believe that simply this amendment should not be accepted, i.e. to accept this proposal from the Government for these members to amend the law. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5257	Mrs. Comic, I'll give you my word that you don't think I have anything against it. You have a replica, but I really don't see the real reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5258	I never would have thought you had anything against anyone in this room on the contrary. It's about the necessity of clarification, because if it's about order and respect for discipline, none of me first is for the order. I'm from Vojvodina, me and when I'm alone, I'm in line. This isn't about working discipline, it's defined at other points of the membership. This is about a felony. I would only ask for caution, when with such ease we claim that the employer knows what the crime has been committed and that it is written as the basis for the worker getting fired, what is worst, this provision can also be applied to employers. Unfortunately, we will have to see the application when we feel with this ease that we can decide for ourselves, regardless of what other regulations exist in this country who committed a crime in the company and got fired on that basis. For respecting working discipline - always, for quitting for gross violations - always, for loyalty to the company where you work – always, but for self-willing, someone appreciates what an act is to be assessed as a criminal act – never. It endangers all of us if we understand the rights we respect under the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5259	Thank you. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 75th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5260	Minister, in your last discussion, you made your views clear. I commend attitude 1, 2 and 3 and I fully agree with you that it is clear to everyone, even the smallest employer, thinking of the entrepreneur. In the desire and intent, as an experienced employer, to facilitate the work of a large number of entrepreneurs who have more than 140,000, I have proposed an amendment that would define this law that if the worker did not come to work for five days consecutively, or justify his absence, such a absence could be considered a cancellation, which the employer only finds in a solution to the termination of the employment relationship. In this way, we would avoid a great administration, which is the government's goal, to simplify, to reduce administration. Indeed, this would, in my great conviction, be a great relief for more than 140,000 entrepreneurs. Simply, if a worker doesn't come in five days to define the law, like these four points of the previous position, so it's this fourth. My request is once again to consider this amendment, supplement the amendments, to accept it, because you will probably be grateful to a large number of entrepreneurs to simplify it, not to have to use and provide funds for making some acts, special contracts with lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5261	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic to Article 76. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5262	Thank you. Article 76, which applies otherwise to Article 179a, contains certain penalties in the process of non-compliance with labour discipline and breach of labour obligations. Those measures themselves are not a problem. I think the employer has the right to punish someone who doesn't do his job. However, the punishment process itself refers to it if the employer considers it necessary to do so. As I think there are good and bad unions in this country, good and bad politicians, so there are, you will agree with me, good and bad employers. Everything is fine here, except that one sentence should be added – the employer can give one of the measures set out in Article 1 if he has carried out the proof procedure. We believe that proof of the process proves the guilt of the employee and that it is one of the essential factors of this process and we believe that this member is in this form a dangerous weapon in the hands of bad employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5263	The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5264	Just a little clarification. Of course, it would not be possible for the employer to settle these issues without verifying anything, but the previous members of 170 and 171 have found that the employer is obliged to do just that, to carry out the proof procedure, that is to do so. This is one newspaper, since earlier essentially the only sanction was fired. Now we've got some gradations here, so we can leave the possibility of not firing a man right now, but to try discipline, then 20%. So there are other members and must be implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5265	The 78th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5266	We believe that this article should be deleted, because the proposal clearly allows employers to fire employees who do not exercise any grounds for firing, as provided by law, but are the victim of the employer's free will to do something like this for no reason. This is because someone is declaring themselves a surplus, but in the same workplace, a new employee is being admitted within three months. Three months is, all colleagues will agree, even if they don't say, a ridiculous short period of business, even in the domain. A little longer sickness, which any action and workplace can endure. The adoption of this amendment allows for redundancies of employees based on surpluses, which combined with a change in the amount of severance is more than clear and favourable to the employer exclusively, to do with the fates of the employees what and how he wishes. This will allow the employee to fire an employer who does not like him because he also smiles unsympathically, and he may also be a member of the Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5267	According to the amendment, the word has Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5268	Of course, the predecessor tried a little lucidly to explain his amendment proposal, but of course he shouldn't have accepted it. Simply, work is dynamic, circumstances change very quickly, and there is no reason for anyone to wait even six months to hire someone in that place. It's better, of course, the shorter the deadline, because dynamics is something that dictates business itself. So we're starting again from what we've had a chance to hear, that all employers are evil, that they can't wait to fire people, that they're just piling when they're gonna fire someone, and they're gonna put someone else there. I don't see any reason for this one upside down logic. I think this should be refused and simply accepted by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5269	National MPs Milena Bicanin, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Milorad Mijatovic, together submitted to the 80th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When the employer cancels the employment contract, then, according to the applicable law, he can hire a new worker in six months. In the bill of this law, he can do it in three months. We believe that if someone has cancelled because of technological developments, it is enough for six months to create new conditions. This is too short a deadline and can be misused so that workers can get unwarranted notices. Our opinion is that a better solution to the law that exists now is valid. Now that I've taken my word for it, I'd like to explain a few more things. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia is for the labour reform law and we believe that this law provides a framework for this. Why? We want new jobs, new jobs, we want to be able to work and earn. We want Serbia to get a job. We had one transition. Here, those who did the robbery privatization speak and have created an unseemly rich and large number of people who are out of work. It is the Social Democratic Party that wants Serbia to get a job, to create a new value, and to share that new value more honestly, that we no longer have an enormous and rudely rich, and there is a large number of people who do not. In order to create such a society, we need to create a framework to create new jobs, to have new investments, and that's what we want. Also, if there is no dilemma, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5271	National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 81st amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5272	The proposed amendments increase the limitation period of the right to terminate the employment contract by the employer in the event of infringement of certain labour obligations, allowing the employer, again, to quit on this basis even within a year of the occurrence of the event, when perhaps everything is forgotten and there is no effect on the employer. This is another way of indirectly providing support and services to employers and the possibility that, without problems, the employee is explicitly fired, although there is no real reason for such a thing. As for all of the declassified leftists here, and SDPS and SPS and PUPS, I think they need to think fat about what this really means, what you say you raise your hand for and for what law. Don't be six months away from everyone pretending you weren't up for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5273	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I suggest that this amendment be rejected to Article 81 submitted by Mr Stefanovic. Again, as you can see, we are in a situation where the amendment in the text is "expunged", again without arguments, again without real reasoning, but that speaks of their understanding and approach to this business. Personally, I think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in its reasoning that rejects this amendment, cited all the relevant factors, cited all the facts and arguments, and I really don't see what's controversial, what's unclear about it? What is unclear to you, Mr. Stefanovic from an explanation? What part of the text? What sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5275	Don't, don't speak to the People's Messenger. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5276	But I think that the proposal for this amendment does not cover the lack of understanding of argument but the intention to gain some political concept in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5277	Thank you. The amendments were submitted to the 81st Amendment in the same text by MPs Milan Petrovic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5278	I thank the chairman. The Government has proposed, to Article 81 concerning Article 184 that the employment contract under Article 179(1) and Article 1(2) and Article 3(3) of this Act be cancelled, the employer may give to the employee within six months of the date of knowledge of the facts which are the basis for the dismissal, or within one year from the date of the occurrence of the facts which are the basis for the termination. The termination of the labour contract referred to in Article 179 paragraph 1 of this Act may be granted by the employer to employees no later than the expiry of the limitation period for a criminal offence established by law. We think that a much better solution is to remain an old way of interpreting this member, where, for a period of six months, the deadline of three months is replaced by the date of "three months" than the date of knowledge, and that a period of one year is replaced by six months from the occurrence of the facts which are the basis for firing because the proposed change introduces a subjective and objective limitation period of three and six months, which are more measured in labour law and guarantee a higher level of safety for employees when the job contract is cancelled. In addition, the deadlines proposed by the applicant are inappropriately long and can open up great opportunities, abuses, discrimination and mobbing by employers. The government did not accept the amendment for the reason that a solution to the bill, as it says, is the appropriate limitation deadlines, and in order to implement mandatory procedures that precedes the identification of the employee's responsibilities and the termination of the employment contract by employers. We think, and this is our idea through all these amendments that we had on the proposed Labour Act, that we need to make every effort to protect the worker by contracting work as weaker parties in the contractual process than you who protect the interests of employers and which is your legitimate right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5279	Thank you. Members of the 82nd Amendment were submitted by MP Vesna Martinović, MP Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamović and joint MPs Marko Djurisić, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blažje Bradić. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5280	This member is talking about it, and I am asking you, Mr. Chairman, to create conditions that we can speak normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5281	I'm asking the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5282	So I, Mr. Minister, read the whole article. I haven't read it in public here. So the line can't cancel the work point contract. That's the way it's been so far. You are introducing a solution unless the conditions laid down in Articles 179 to 3 have been met. I counted, say, four dots, and there are fifteen, conditions under which you can fire someone. So what the fellow MP was talking about has been happening so far, unfortunately, but it wasn't under the law. This opens the possibility of cancellations being passed under the law. I've deliberately counted the counts, Mr. Minister, which have nothing to do with the crime. There's a crime, I didn't count it. You're a criminal. I'm telling you next to the crime scene there are 15 more things and I've read them correctly, so there's no confusion. So, it doesn't realize the results of the work, it unwittingly and unwittingly executes the work obligations, that's all the basics. No, don't talk before. How before? So unless the terms of article 179 have been obtained, you have now given the legal basis that pregnant women, women on maternity leave and employees who use child care rights can be fired. That's what's happened so far, but it was illegal. I don't see how this is more protected by this category of population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5283	Well, since there's obviously a different interpretation here, then we need an expert to discuss it. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5284	Thank you. This member is very important, I ask for a little more attention, because here it is said that pregnant women, or during the pregnancy of maternity leave, leave of work for the care of the child and leave for the care of the child the employer cannot cancel the employment contract. This was the first position of Article 187. The amendments to the Government proposed after this point shall be accompanied by a point and a word – unless the conditions laid down in Article 179 paragraph 1 to 3 of this Act have been met. We talked about it, article 179 lists the conditions for reasons for firing. So, so far pregnant, women in maternity, or employees who were not able to get fired on leave because of child care. The minister said -- more protection is now being provided by adding the words "except" and listing the reasons under which they can be fired. I don't see how that makes any sense. I'm going to read, first of all, because of citizens knowing the reasons why a pregnant woman, a foster mother, or an employee exercising the right to care for a child can now that this law is passed, and it's likely to be adopted, to get fired. What are the reasons in Article 179? – if it does not achieve the results of work or does not have the necessary knowledge and ability to perform the tasks it is working on. Among other things, if it does not carry out its work duties in a safe or reckless manner, if it makes another breach of the labour obligation established by a general act or contract of work. If he unwarrantedly refuses to perform his duties, he executes his employer's orders in accordance with the law and various other things we discussed here when we spoke of Article 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5285	Replica, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5286	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment submitted by the LSV also refers to maternity leave as our predecessors have said. The proposed amendment provides for the retention of legal provisions. The attitudes of 1st and three members of 187 are cohesion, as they cannot be employed in maternity leave without official documentation that the employer is not familiar with.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5287	The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5288	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. What an esteemed colleague has said is absolutely false and it is good that the legislator has regulated when he can get a woman who is pregnant or on maternity leave can get fired. We know that, and it's been in the press so far, and it's been debated about it, women were massively getting fired from private employers when they got pregnant. They even came into a situation that they had to sign sometimes that if they hired this company, they wouldn't stay in a different state, which was cruel to the maximum. Large corporations, even, as is said, Mr Draskovic's company mass-released all women who remained in a different state or had to be sick during pregnancy. So now with this law at least some women are pregnant are protected in a certain way. No, maybe completely, but they're far more protected than they've ever been, because cruelty has been absolutely present in the current situations, so far, employment cases. So what is now said, that is, the amendment that has been sent astray, and it is good that the government has recognized the situation so far and has given the conditions under which possibly a woman who is on maternity leave or who is leading a pregnancy to be fired from work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5289	Sign up again so I can give you time. Now sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5290	This member, please, the Rules of Procedure are being broken, so, according to the Rules of Procedure, you should get a warning, read Rule 109. Rules of Procedure, and if you can give me back my time for this. Thank you. This is a very important member since this is about rights...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5291	Thank you. Members of the 82nd Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Olgica Batic and MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5292	Article 82(1) must be deleted. I ask you to accept this amendment. This thing is so inaccurate, on the other hand, and on the other hand, as we have shown you, it is quite clear, because it clearly writes – if it does not achieve the results of the work and a few more items. You in this way, through this provision, take the road to our legislation to introduce a situation to give birth, pregnant women and the person entitled to care for children can be fired. A private road like this is being introduced. It is not only a problem now, but it is a problem that Dr. Nebojsa Stefanovic has passed a law here on the protection of children in which he predicted this is impossible and you are in colluding with the law of your doctor, who passed this in the Assembly and we all voted for it, and if we knew that man only codifies what exists in other laws. That's when we told you what you were doing? It's about marketing, but come on, but now you're going against this provision. Guys, I don't know if you're aware, it's been before, but what counterpart Marko Djurisic says, it was illegal. Now it'll be legal. Why and to what extent all of you, and you who are left-handed, and you who are not left-handed, can allow this situation. Mr. Chairman, I see the way you look at me, that you agree with me. Well, at least let's confirm that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5293	Don't make any conclusions. By amendment, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5294	I see, Mr. Chairman, that we also have Baba Vange in the Assembly. It's read by sight, interpreting other people's views and opinions, but well, when there are no other arguments, that's good. The things initiated by the former president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Stefanovic Nebojsa, the effects of what he has initiated, the amendments to the laws he has set up are visible in our society. How many people believed in these changes, as far as they believe, shows a series of memos, letters, requests to protect those pregnant women who were also fostered by layoffs, who were scrutinized by some old laws. What was launched by Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic is proud of Mr Stefanovic's pride and SNS. The effects of this are seen in our society, the trust of maternity, the trust of pregnant women. However, the second question is now being asked, grandparents and frogs interfere. Since many here are hiding behind the experience of working in private or are private, when we're talking about some things that hide behind the view, let's answer to yourself, that you're private, that you're an employer and that you have a worker who unfortunately in some situations doesn't carry out his work duties fairly and if a woman, if she's pregnant, would you say, it doesn't matter. You've made a shortfall at the cash register. Never mind. Keep working. Will you give such an opportunity or say, I'm sorry, please, don't do well, don't do fair, you have to get fired. How many times has it been, unfortunately, that someone commits a crime, that someone embezzles, stays in a different state just to have protection? I think it's an irregularity. This isn't about making it easier for pregnant women to get fired. No, it says here that no one in our society has absolute protection. Those who work dishonestly will be fired. Those who do not do well will be fired, and maternity, pregnant women, are happily seen both in companies and on the street, we need in our society and this law promotes and has protection, but absolute protection. They don't even have union champions and activists anymore, if they work unfairly, they don't have pregnant women, if they work unfairly, and no one who does their job unfairly has protection. If you say it's okay, someone can be in a different state and work unfairly and work against the law and be protected, so say it. That's why the bill promoter said what the conditions are and what it means when someone under this law can get fired. Who works honestly, who works responsibly, doesn't have to have any headaches. (National MP Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5295	The word has a minister first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5296	You know, now we're going back to what needs to be read, not just what suits you politically at the right time. So it's not possible, it's not possible to fire a pregnant woman in the same way as anyone else. You have a member of 187. Read it - during pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for child care, absence of work for special care child employer cannot cancel work contract. It's very precise, just the attitude of the 1st and 2nd of the law, and there you have about 14, 15 views. So it's not true. You can't. The staff of Article 1(1) of the Treaty establishing a working relationship for a specified period of time shall be extended, etc. The decision to cancel the employment contract is invalid if, on the day of the adoption of the decision to cancel the employer's employment contract, it was known for its position 1. So, you can't fire a pregnant woman if she made a break before she was pregnant. The moment she's pregnant, she becomes legally untouchable. The only way to do this is to commit a crime, which is exactly why it's listed here, nothing else. You have very precise, read it. You have a member after you make it very clear. The only way is to commit a crime. That's why it's exactly listed here. Nothing else. You have very precise, read it. So you have a member after where you very clearly explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5297	Mr. Stefanovic, I beg you, there's really no point opening the lines. Nothing was offensive. Let me explain my point of view. So, you gave your vision, I get it, I think it's clear to everyone. The same was given by Mr. Babic, but there was nothing offensive. To open up a line about the old law that we adopted here, I don't think it makes any sense. We're getting out of the subject, so please really respect me and listen and give up the replica, so we can move on. (National MP Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I have to explain. To make a deal to make it dignified. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5298	Mr. General, I'll certainly... (National Ambassador Zoran Babic, from where: In what time, just tell me at what time, how do you violate the Rules of Procedure? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5299	Not according to the Rules of Procedure, he's looking for a replica. (National Ambassador Zoran Babic, from the place: Replication to what? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5300	The replication of what you were addressing directly to the applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5301	He submitted the amendment, you spoke of that amendment, which he considers to have misread. On that basis, I'm giving him the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5302	Can you give me back my time? No one has to be afraid who works responsibly, honestly, securely. Otherwise, it's called legal standards, for those who don't know. That's what we don't know who, unless he's from the Central Homeland Authority, will determine what's safe and responsible. But what has undoubtedly been found now is that both pregnant women and union heads and maternity parents are in the same basket. No unprotected. Yeah, according to the amendment. So, what's the point? To try and get the conversation back in what it is, with a comment that Eichmann wasn't the camp commander, he was in charge of several camps, but fine. I notice here that we have a deep misunderstanding and unnecessary emotions and anxiety. The government has come up with a situation in which it has put an end to the essential provision that has so far made it impossible for maternity, pregnant and non-natural women, but has added the government to the point and said – unless the conditions laid down in Article 179(1) have been met, which says: "If they do not achieve the results of work or have the necessary knowledge and ability to carry out the tasks they are working on... “ Pregnant, maternity? Do you understand? Then I understand why someone gets up here and yells, so he's nervous, so he talks about hate, then privatisations. Well, this is the point. There are a lot of doctors among you, honest people. Imagine what this really means? This really means that a woman who is by the nature of her condition at home, based on this provision, has the right to be fired by a man. That's what it says. I'm not making this up. So that's the whole philosophy. All the other one, I find it often an unknowing attempt to distort responsibility. People, you're adopting the thing that's in collegiate with the law that we've passed on to Dr. Stefanovic, the doctor of doctors, who put it here and we've all voted for it. Then why are you voting this thing the opposite? It's a very simple question, even rhetorical, because I don't expect an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5303	Mr. Stefanovic, I won't let you. We made a deal. Now you're spreading the subject and I won't let you do it. Please, friendly and friendly, sit down so I don't give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5304	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Why is that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5305	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5306	Mr. Chairman, I will appeal to article 107, to the dignity of the National Assembly. You have violated the dignity of the National Assembly because you do not respect the Rules of Procedure. I respect the situation and the fact that the opposition is small, with small arguments, that they should be supported, that no one should be oppressed, not a majority of the minority, not a minority of the majority. But just explain to me on the basis of what, if I was talking about the amendment, if I didn't mention the parliamentary group, no one in person, on which basis did you give the right to the replica of Mr Stefanovic, if time was spent and the parliamentary groups and the heads of the parliamentary group? What time did you spend? Here, say, we'll give you from the SNS parliamentary group, we have plenty of time, thank God, we'll honor the Democratic Party, they still have very little time, as well as MPs. There's no problem. But don't break the Rules of Procedure and give something they have no right to. Then we'll all be in touch. Then we'll all think we have the right to not know what. The Rules of Procedure are sacred. There was no reason to give the word to Mr. Stefanovic, to insult again, to mention the Central Homeland Authority again. What does the Central Homeland Authority have to do with pregnant women and law and this law? This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Every word call is a new insult to the SNS. Can you get in the way of that once? I don't mind if we face our attitudes. But I do mind when someone insults, and not because of me, I don't let them insult 135 of my colleagues. And that's what you do for a living in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5307	Mr. Granny, I'll start with the last thing you said. The permanent insult in this congregation is not my fault, and I don't feel at all responsible for it. Second of all, please don't take it easy on me. Mr. Babico, I don't allow you to deny my right to conduct a session in the Rules of Procedure either. You are well aware that according to the Rules of Procedure, it is exclusively my right to give someone a replica or not. It's my assessment, and you can't challenge my right to do so. Read the Rules of Procedure, please. You're also such a witness that I thought it was democratic to make a deal with a man, if he had something to say, about that amendment, thinking something was wrong. As soon as he started to speak, I saw that he had strayed from the subject and I practically took his word away. I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. I ask you, in that sense, to respect me, as chairman, to enable me, and do not honor me for what I have not contributed, nor have I influenced, especially not the insult that I strongly condemn. I wish all MPs were really decent. Here you are, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, again, Zoran Babic. I'm sorry, I didn't ask you if you wanted us to come to the voter's day? (No)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5308	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. Two things. "If any member of the Parliament offends another MP, the obligation, the right and duty of the president or the chairman is to warn him or take away his word," whether he is from the government, whether he is from the opposition. If he doesn't, he broke the Rules of Procedure. The other thing, I'm prepared, Mr. Chairman, is that from a stenogram, if you find one point from my discussion that you'll get this discretionary right to think of someone else as entitled to a replica, I will publicly apologize. But if there's no point and there's no point, and I'm sure there's no point, I expect that kind of apology. Because that discretionary right doesn't mean that anyone can do whatever they want. This book - Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, is sacred, while we are in it. And I ask and demand that we all respect each other, that we all move within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. If I gave, and I'm going to ask for this moment a stenogram of everything I said, if I gave the right to a replica, one gesture, a view, anything, I'll apologize to you and the rest of my colleagues. But if I didn't, I'd ask you to apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5309	Mr. Ironovich, I must say that the time of your parliamentary group has been spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5310	Let me finish another sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5311	The time of the parliamentary group has been spent. The word has been issued by MP Borislav Stefanovic as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5312	Thank you. There is no time for any more parliamentary groups. National MP Borislav Stefanovic took advantage of his remaining time. So MP groups no longer have time. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5313	Mr. Babico, I'm really always ready to apologize to everyone here and you witnessed such phenomena when I was wrong and there's no problem with that at all. I don't think I'm going to fall off my hair because I'm going to apologize to someone, and I'm going to apologize to you and anyone, if I'm really wrong. So, here, I promise you now, if you prove it to me, but I also claim that I did not say that my discretionary right is whether or not I'm going to use Article 104, which tells me about the use of rights, it's said in those two positions, the President, or the chairman of the National Assembly. He asked for a replica, I thought he was right for some reason, you think he didn't, but I decided he had a right and I gave it to him. So I don't think I've broken my rules of procedure. Excuse me. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I am reporting for the amendment as an authorised representative. ) As in authorized? Then you'll have to wait because there's more after the amendment. You will have to wait, you are right because you have time as an authorised representative, you have the right to the amendment, but they have the first Free Ironic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it would be good to demystify some things when it comes to these amendments under this article. First of all, when it comes to maternity leave, it is clear that a woman who is on maternity leave receives a letter valid for a year and from the day on which this sick leave takes a year, so that she cannot be in the workplace and all of these lists the amendment promoters that are listed, where she says – if she does not achieve the results of work, she unwittingly performs work obligations, unwarrantedly refuses work tasks, absolutely protects the employee because she is not at work. She's on maternity leave, so she can't get fired on her own free will. If it's a pregnancy disease, it's also clear that by opening up the sick leave, in order to maintain pregnancy until birth, the woman enjoys full protection, precisely for these reasons that I have stated, which is nicely explained by Minister Vulin. So far, it has been, not always, but in certain cases, about the will of individuals where women, both in pregnant and maternity care, have quit and precisely those companies that received large donations from the previous regime, receiving 10,000 euros for the opening of new jobs, not to advertise them here now, because the advertisement is expensive in this House. We need to be aware of the fact that there is no employer who would make a pregnant woman, who is not pregnant, do a job that she can't do just because she's pregnant, unless it's some extreme cases. Well, not every private employer, Adolf Eichman, the camp chief, is going to make his employees seem like they're in a concentration camp. This amendment absolutely does not stand, and Minister Vulin explained well the purpose of the amendment, that it provides better protection for pregnant women and today's entire debate, Mr President, shows us that politics cannot be conducted hystericalally by glands.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5316	Article 107, again dignity and again countless insults by Mr Stefanovic from impotence, out of anger, out of anger, out of hatred, out of no longer know what. How long will it take and where do you think the threshold is for SNS tolerance? What does a doctor of doctors mean? For you, yes, and the doctor at the club is for you, Mr. Borislav Stefanovic. He invented democracy and he did it, and you're like years old, which you won't do in three lifetimes because it prevents you from hating, because it prevents you from being envious, and because once we have to put an end to the haughtiness of the habit in 2012. We simply have to put an end to the past. How much more demeaning? How much more of this debauchery? How much more of that hate? Where's that going? To belittle the National Assembly. Tell me when it's enough? What does all this mean? What time is this today? What are we -- central fatherland, they, goats, doctors over doctors? I can't remember the insults. We're in the alley. That's what it's all about. I ask you once to put an end to the debate in one normal, civilized, democratic flow if possible. Otherwise, calling on what Mr. Stefanovic is doing, permanently, is the bravest when a man is not there, when Mr. Stefanovic is not there to answer. When he was here, he was smaller than a mack's grain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5317	I'll answer and then I'll take a break because we're completely out of the subject. I don't think the chairman, any of us, is to be replaced, is not to blame. Member of the 107th National Assembly, we've all changed here, I really think that MPs carry a large part of the responsibility together with us for not being rigid and that we seem to allow MPs to speak at all. We should interrupt strictly if you're not talking about the amendment. I promise, after the break it's strict. They'll just talk about the amendments, believe me. That's what you're all looking for. Do you want to vote? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. I thank you. (Predrag Mijatovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. (Laughter) On the Rules of Procedure after the break. The chairman thinks we're completely out of the picture. It's been a long time since the Rules of Procedure's injuries. No one's talking about the amendments anymore. Insults from all sides. I'm setting a 15-minute break. We haven't had a break all day. I think now's the time. We're still working on it, so you know, as long as we don't finish the debate. [[after breaks]] Members of the 82nd same text were submitted by MP Olgica Batic and MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 82nd amendment were submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blaža Bradic together submitted to the 84th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5319	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Therefore, Article 84 referred to a member of the 189 Act, which reads, to this day, “Employee who has not achieved the necessary work results, i.e. does not have the necessary knowledge and ability within the meaning of Article 179(1) of this Act, has the right and the duty to remain at work for at least a month, and for a maximum period of three months,” in the text of the cancellation period, “depending on the overall insurance standing and that, if he has completed 10 years of work, two months if he has between 10 and 20 years of employment, three months, if he has completed more than 20 years of work. ” The government wants to change that and that the member is – an employee whose employment contract has been cancelled because they do not achieve the necessary work results or work contract depending on internships and insurance, which cannot be shorter than eight days or longer than 30 days. We suggest that the word “eight” is changed with the word “15 days”, because we consider it to be a minimum time limit where a person can manage and possibly seek legal assistance. There's no need to be in a hurry. Seven days is irrelevant and I think it's in accordance with the law and I think the government should accept our proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5320	National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 85th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86, the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Chapo.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5321	Thank you. The LSV parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 86, a member who is quite sensitive to each employee, as regards the institutions of illegal termination or, as defined in the new proposal, as the legal consequences of the illegal termination of employment. Through the amendment, we asked that the first words of the amendment, which read, should the court find in the course of the proceedings that the employee had stopped working without a legal basis, be changed in words: “If the judicial verdict found that the employee had unlawfully ceased working relationship.” Of course, we asked to delete Section 7 of the proposal, which says, if the court finds that there was a basis for the termination of the employment relationship, but that the employer acted contrary to the provisions of the laws prescribed for the termination of the working relationship, the court will reject the request of the worker to return to work and, on behalf of the subsequent damage, it will assign an employee amount of up to 6 earnings to the employees. We think it's the result of an illegal layoff of nothingness that means returning both to the workplace and paying off the profits. The proceedings are conducted by the court, according to the law of the court, so it is excluded that this matter is regulated by this law. Irregularity can be both formal and material, and we think that the provision of attitude 7 is as proposed, and is not adequate. We believe that this new provision seriously violates the independence and independence of the court and encroachs on guaranteed rights of employees to a fair trial. The problem is that the planned solution practically requires the court to act in certain situations. In case it is found illegal to resign, the employee shall have the right to return to work. This provision allows the employer to request time at the same time during the procedure for unlawful dismissal...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5322	Time. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 86th Amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, MP Borislav Stefanovic and joint MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović and Vesna Marjanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5323	The amendment I have submitted concerns the conditions of getting an old pension for women, so that it changes the proposed proposal and retains the right for women to retire from 2015 to 2020 with six months each, at the full amount of 63 years of age. By adding the view that a woman has the right to choose, to gain an age pension, and from 40 years of employment and 65 years of life. The proposed changes prescribe changes in conditions for obtaining age pension rights that began in the more developed economies of the world after the 2008 economic collapse for two reasons. The first was that it was a conditional key for future financial structures in the EU and slightly less in the US, and the second was to save as many pension funds that were estimated not to last until just 60 or 62 years. With full awareness that this meant a burden on the state, I also had a proposal when we brought the first changes in pension and disability insurance, or conditions for retirement pensions, to be courageous and to introduce taxes to churches and VAT on services and property and to be even more courageous and to actually make funds such as RFZO or PIO or not funds. I think this job is waiting for us. I appeal to all of us who know that this is just because a woman who works twice as hard as a man and because it's a way to show that we know what the economy of concern is and because it's a way to show respect for the division of work in the economy of family care. I think it's perfectly natural, if it didn't keep any increase in the deficit and I'd ask for support.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5324	Thank you. On Article 7th of the amendment, Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic submitted with a correction. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty did not accept the amendment, with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5325	I expect of all those who served the army, they were at military exercises to support this amendment. I assumed that the insurance company would increase the duration of the insurance service during military service, military training and participation in the war, unless it had acquired an insurance hold on other grounds. An increased time of insurance training enables the insurance company to leave early for an old and early retirement and does not affect pension levels. The reasons for this are numerous. The first reason is that those who served military time and were able, and this military service was also associated with some danger, handled the weapons, during which time those who were unable to serve the military deadlines earned their salaries, had contributions that were paid, had 15, sometimes 18 months, sometimes 12 months earlier the right to go to early retirement, or retirement. With that in mind, I suggested that all those who served military service be increased during their military service, military exercise, or wartime. That increase would not affect pension levels, but only people would gain pensions at the same time as their peers, that is, to fill their 40 years of employment. Another reason is that some soldiers were under contract, and other soldiers were with them in a trench for military service or exercise. Both of them ate the same beans, printed with the same danger, exposed themselves often to wars, but one had an internship, had a salary, while the other was on baskets only a member of the reserve staff, had no right to intern and had no right to receive a salary at that time. I think we should at least partially correct the injustices associated with those people who served their homes faithfully or who went to war.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5326	You're out of time. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5327	The amendment requires that a provision that is in existing law be specified. He refers to children born to an employed woman who has some years of employment. When she goes to retirement to count...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5328	Excuse me, MPs. Please, it's late, just to listen to each other, there are a few more amendments. I'm sorry, I'll give you back your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5329	Thank you. And if I were prone to cynicism, I would have noticed how much interest you have in words, and how much in the works and in the debate of low birth in the Republic of Serbia. Luckily, I didn't. A special internship on this basis is six months for one child, one year for two children. My application and my amendment essentially constitute a requirement that a special internship on this basis cannot reduce the amount of pension, i.e. to be counted equally as an internship achieved during a working relationship. I tried to ask myself how this internship was going, and all I got were different answers. I felt it was important to point out that this provision was good at the idea of the promoter and that I would welcome it. I know exactly what it means for the budget if I were to suggest that two years is given to a woman who gave birth to three and more children, and I'm afraid it would be considered a personal interest, because I gave birth to four children, but I think the message of clarity is six months for one child and a year for two is a message that they just need to give birth. I know exactly the conflict and the dilemma between belonging to a political party, a political club, between loyalty to a political programme and the weight of a struggle that you should present as a member of a political programme when you support the government and I know how it can be in conflict with a personal attitude. I ask all men from the parliamentary clubs of the ruling majority to allow the Women's Parliamentary Network to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5330	I thank you for your letters. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5331	Thank you. This amendment proposes erasing Article 11 which provides for early retirement pensions to be reduced by 0.34% for each month before 65 years of life, with a total reduction not exceeding 20.4%. This solution is unacceptable since the proposal foresees that early retirement leave rights are obtained by an insurance who is younger than the retirement age, but has completed 36 to 40 years of insurance costs according to the planned scale, while the right to an age pension is achieved by insurance companies of certain years of age, with enough to have at least 15 years of internships. The decision of the promoters put insurance companies with longer working life, i.e. longer periods of insurance, and on this basis paid longer periods for pension insurance contributions placed in a more unfavourable position than insurance workers who had a shorter working period, and therefore made shorter payments for pension insurance. The government's argument is that the amendment is rejected for the reason that the introduction of an early retirement institute aims to destimulate pension rights before the general age limit is completed. We believe that this is a certain kind of discrimination, because certain categories of insurance workers have completed trades, three-year or four-year high school and started working immediately, and of course they have much more internships than those who have graduated from colleges. They've been doing harder jobs, and they've been paying for a retirement internship for longer...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5332	Time. Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5333	Thank you, Madam President. This is the last amendment I'm reporting for today. We believe that article 88 should be deleted because this article is abolished by previously guaranteed workers' rights to effective and beneficial judicial protection. In particular, the proposed removal of Article 195(3) abolishes the six-month deadline for the adoption of a judicial verdict in working disputes. And not just that. Despite the fact that there was no imperative character, there was no clearly defined sanctions for his violation, the six-month deadline set was still a strong psychological dam even more massive layoff of employees. Now, since it is deleted, the courts have, otherwise, in a very poor state, an unlimited time limit to hold people who have a working dispute in one expectation and an unresolved state in one extremely permanent way. The unconscious employer had to at least consider whether the case of workers would come into the hands of rarely-secured judges, who were pressed by the legal provision, saw that the trial ended at least within the prescribed deadline or at least not to a significant extent, and the worker could at least hope and use this deadline as a powerful weapon of appeal to the conscience and conscience of the judges. In these circumstances, when every time rapper to end the dispute is deleted, when the self-will of the judicial system and its parts at the speed of solving them are practically legalised and led to the level of absolute self-will, workers lose any form of effective legal protection and security. The road for mass illegal layoffs of workers is characterized by falsified bankruptcy and alleged technological surpluses is fully open. Literally, in this case, through this provision, nothing stands in his way anymore. I have to say, for example, in Germany, which we are happy to call upon, that deadline for resolving the work dispute is only a few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5334	Two minutes. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5335	You know, this six-month-long provision of good, noble and, unfortunately, by practice and by the view of judges absolutely inapplicable. Now the question here is whether we're going to keep something that has absolutely no basis in practice and absolutely disrespect, and we're going to pretend it's some kind of dam, and unfortunately it's not a dam for anything. It's like saying, or saying that social property is the most just form of property. Yes, and we abolished it because it's marketable. It doesn't change the fact that social property is more just than any other form of property, as this doesn't change the fact that it would be great that it happens in six months, but unfortunately it never happens. We've tried to do some other things, since the introduction of an executive I.D., which, as you know, 95% of all work disputes, is where the payoffs are being accelerated, so let's just say, we've reduced the time limit for starting the procedure from 90 days to 60 days. So, to get as fast as we can, but this is just to be honest. That six-month deadline, no matter how well imagined and noblely imagined, simply wasn't possible. There may be some other mechanisms that I hope will one day be discussed in this House, which is the introduction of the court's work. It's Germany. There's this mechanism and then specialized courts and that's how it works there. Not just there, of course. Will that be possible, will there be a readiness? Who knows. Here, I'm saying what I'm sure would significantly reduce the duration of disputes in the field of working relations and that would be the solution. Let's leave this to ourselves, and this is my explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5336	Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 89th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Goran Ciric jointly submitted to the 89th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to Article 94 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 95th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 95th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 96th Amendment were submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic to Article 96. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 97 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The 107th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5337	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, by amending Article 273 with a fine of 800 000 to 2 million dinars, will be punished for the offence of the employer with the property of the legal person, so he says – if the person he is working on has not concluded the labour contract, etc., if he has not paid off his earnings, if he has not paid off his earnings in money, etc. It's in the interest of 140,000 entrepreneurs. I think this item of increase from 800,000 to million, as early as it was, to two million fines, it's really an extremely great punishment. I think it is contrary to what both the government and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia are aiming at increasing employment. In this way, I fear that people will be hired, because the vast majority does not have the means to pay for legal services, lawyers are too expensive and I do not think that this will achieve the goal of increasing employment. I'm afraid, as an experienced businessman, there will be layoffs. I proposed a team of the Business and Rebirth Movement of Serbia, headed by the president and president of the Union of Employers, officially, in accordance with the law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia... I am deeply convinced that the third minister will respect the law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in order to enroll the legally elected, in the extraordinary Assembly, held in the Union of employers of Serbia, which is the largest body, and in accordance with the largest act, statute and the Labour Act, or the Union of Employers. I suggest that the fine instead of 800,000...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5338	Time. Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, the parliamentary group has no time left. Member of the 117th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Marijan Rističević, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojsic, Dejan Capo, Vesna Martinović, Gordana Čomić, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Momo Colaković, as well as the Amendment of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments, as well as reports from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. National MPs Vesna Marjanović and Goran Ćirić, on 16 July 2014, withdrew the amendment together to Article 8. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment with a correction was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty did not accept the amendment, with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5339	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment to Article 1 refers to the mandatory insurance of farmers. The law provides that the family agricultural holding company, or at least one member of the household of the family holding or mixed household, shall be deemed to be a mandatory insurance undertaking in terms of pension insurance. I suggested that if members of the household are over 50 years old that they do not have the obligation, since pensions would have to be 65 years old and at least 15 years old. If members of the household are all, two or one or more of them, if they are over 50 years old, then it is quite without the subject of making people make sure they have to make sure they can't be the beneficiaries of that pension. So we can be generational solidarity, but I think it's inappropriate for old farmers to make sure that they can't ever be users of that pension. In order to overcome the situation in position 2, I assumed that if they were over 50 years old they would have the right to acquire the necessary number of internships and thus be secured, and that they would later have the right to retire, because if they were 52 years old at 65 they would be 13 years old and would not have the right to retire. That's why I predicted that if they wanted to, they could get that internship. I also added that any insurance company can acquire an internship, which is not satisfied with 15, 18 years of internships, and thus strengthens the agricultural fund. I also predicted that the right to insurance from this member could have workers working on agricultural land and that in such a way...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5340	Thank you. Time's up. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty did not accept the amendment, with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5341	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, this amendment concerns the conditions of obtaining the right to retirement, particularly the border of retirement for women. Our proposal was to take Article 3. The bill is deleted, i.e. we propose to maintain an existing legal solution, which provides that the insurance company is entitled to an age pension when women are 60 years of life and at least 15 years of insurance training. We suggested this because the question of women retirement with 65 years is one of the most sensitive issues. Women are the biggest losers of transition and in a period of sanctions, without the help of raising children, poor material condition. The position of women is compromised and the care of women's health is at a low level. The conditions of our women's lives cannot be compared to the conditions of women's lives in the EU. For example, according to the World Bank Report on the position and rights of women, Serbia has been among the worst countries in women's health since 15 May. Under one criterion for the expected number of years of life without serious diseases and the share of women's children in the total number of births, Serbia is 111th among 136 countries. That is why we felt that regardless of all the circumstances, this should not be a deterioration for retirement conditions. I am also very disappointed in the Women's Parliamentary Network because we failed this test, because we promised each other that when women's rights and women's protection are, we would take care of these rights no matter what our party membership is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5342	Thank you. National MP Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty did not accept the amendment, with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty did not accept the amendment, with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes that the amendment, with correction, is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, retirement is a 65-year-old pension and 40-year-old internship. Early retirement is 60 years and 40 years of internship. I had the amendment that everyone who continues to work after 65 years to be on the same basis as how pensions are reduced and increased, that anyone who works after 65 years and has more than 40 years of internships, his pension is increased monthly by 0.34%, as it does if he is not 65 years old. So to reward one who has worked for over 65 years and one who has been paying for an internship for 40 years. I also predicted that persons who went into early retirement at age 60 at 40 and who would have a lower pension of 20.4% than the same insurance company who started working five years later, I predicted that in situations where someone is 60 years old, and with that age, there was, say, 44 years of training, that for those four years of age, it would be added 0.34% per month to the same principle, given that there are as many as four years of training as the one who has a full pension, and he would be punished for having a pension of less than 20.4%, although he has four years of training. What does this matter? It's important that people who come to 60 get 40 years of internships can check out and wait 65 years, not to pay an internship, get a full-age pension, and that's why we're losing the PIO fund. I suggested that every year after 40, every month be rewarded at 0.34% a month, as well as the faces of the younger...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5344	Time. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5345	Thank you. The amendment amends the provision of penalty points for early retirement. Penalties are common in European legislation. They differ from Germany, where they return to the insurance or insurance company when they reach the old age limit of normal retirement, to a special handling of these reductions by the state, such as in France or Denmark. I suggest that the penalty points, that the penalty amounts to those who go into early retirement are smaller because I deeply believe, and I wish I were wrong, that all this idea that all the working people, that men and women who work and women to work for five, seven or eight years, produce additional occupational diseases, produce additional difficult health conditions, and that very quickly, unfortunately, not us, but other developed countries, will also have to shorten the rights that we currently have in primary and secondary health care in health funds and health care guaranteed by the state, both our own and other similar to us. By adopting this amendment, we would show that we are aware that it is unfair to keep the penalty points even after years of happiness by women who leave early retirement up to 63 years. I urge you once again, all MPs of the National Assembly, with an appeal to all fellow men in the National Assembly, to arrange a vote on at least some amendments concerning the interest of women. It won't be enough votes to really fix it, but it will mean a lot to many of us who know that the solutions we're proposing to these amendments on women's right to choose up to 65 to work if they want to, up to 63 to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5346	You've wasted your time, thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Hope Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5347	Dear Presidents, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, dear Ministers, this amendment has been proposed for exactly the same reasons as...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5348	I'm only asking MPs for a little silence. The speakers are picking up, there's nothing to hear. We're slowly bringing the end, but please, just a little quiet. Here you go, we're back in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5349	The amendment we have proposed would read, i.e. a member would read - the amount of early retirement pension is determined in the same way as the age pension, with the amount of such a pension being reduced, until the insurance company turns 65 years old, by 0.34% for each month before 65 years of life, and in Article 11(2). The draft law of Article 70b, after saying: "Extremely from Article 70a of this Act, an insurance undertaking is given early retirement by the way an old retirement is determined, by the amount of that pension", the word "sustainable" is deleted, and the rest of the attitude remains the same. It is, in fact, that this proposed amendment, with regard to determining the amount of early retirement, is being implemented by 0.34% for each month of previous retirement from the general age line only until the insurance company is 65 years old, which would apply the solution known, as we have already heard, in European practice, the example of working in Germany, that the reduction only takes place until the conditions for obtaining a full retirement pension, and that after that, insurance companies receive its full amount. I also appeal, as did my predecessor, Mrs Comic, that especially the members of our Women's Parliamentary Network, consider how women will affect the lives and health of women and how many women will ever be able to experience a period of pension use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5350	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinović. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction have submitted an amendment to Article 22. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is for Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5351	Very short. As you know, when the PIO Act is adopted, it will begin to apply from January 1st, but there is no reason for the PIO Management Board and the PIO Supervisory Board to continue functioning until January 1st. So this is what we predict different deadlines. As soon as this law is declared in the "Official Messenger", it will start producing effects on the PIO Management Board and the PIO Supervisory Board. Just so you know, it's 28 people in which the government of the Republic of Serbia had two men, a letter and a number, and that satisfaction totaled us nearly two million dinars a month. So only by adopting this amendment will we save over 55,000 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5352	Do you accept the amendment? Please make your statement for the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5353	Yes, I do, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-07-17-0.u5354	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have completed the debate on the first and second item of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly may decide that the day for voting on a bill should be immediately after the examination of the bill is completed. In accordance with this provision, I determine Friday, 18 July 2014, starting at 10.00 hours, as the day for voting on the first two points of the agenda of this session, i.e. the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act and the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. So, I'll see you tomorrow, Friday, July 18th, starting at 10:00 p.m., at the vote. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 179 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work and decision of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs Vladimir Pavicevic and Branko Ruzic. We move to a decision on the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF WORK LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 175, against -16, with abstentions - there are no, five MPs have not voted out of the total 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before we move to amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become: an amendment to Article 17 submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Slobodan Homen, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradić, amendment to Article 78, which was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic and the amendment to Article 47. The bill was submitted by the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against -one, abstentions - no, 194 of the 198 MPs present in total did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 194 of the 198 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 187 of the 201 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 190 of the 203 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -18, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 186 of the 204 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Mirko Chikiriz submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 200 of the 204 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote 197 of the 204 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 186 of the total of the 203 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3rd of the amendment were submitted jointly by the MPs: Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blažja Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 186 of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs: Natasa Vukkovic, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunovic and Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 186 of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blažja Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 187 of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 186 of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaže Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 188 of the 206 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 188 of the 206 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 199 of the 206 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions – there is no vote, 188 of the 206 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 188 of the 206 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 188 of the 206 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaže Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 190 of the total of 208 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, no one, with abstentions, voted 201 of the 209 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions – there is no vote, 194 of the 209 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were together submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaža Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 194 of the 210 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaže Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 195 of the 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 195 of the 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 6, v – one, with abstentions – there is no vote of 204 of the 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blažja Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 192 of the 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunovic and Vesna Marjanovic, together submitted the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 193 MPs, of the total of 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - two, abstentions - one, 205 MPs did not vote, of the total of 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Nenad Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 194 MPs of the total of 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blažija Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 193 MPs of the total of 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 193 MPs of the total of 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 192 MPs out of the total of 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 193 MPs of the total of 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milena Bicanin, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Milorad Mijatovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against one, the abstentions, there is no vote of 209 MPs from the total of 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that for—seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—one, has voted 205 MPs from the total of 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 193 MPs out of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blažja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 193 MPs did not vote from the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 193 MPs out of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 194 MPs out of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st amendment was submitted by Parliament member Olga Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 207 MPs out of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunovic and Vesna Marjanovic, together submitted the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 194 MPs out of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 206 MPs out of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 194 MPs out of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 194 MPs out of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 205 MPs out of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 194 MPs out of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 28th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 200 of the 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaže Bradic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 194 of the 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193 of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 203 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted the amendment to Article 33. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 194 of the 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 194 of the 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 195 of the 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - two, abstentions - no, no, 209 of the 213 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 192 of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 192 of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 191 of the 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaže Bradić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193 of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic submitted together to the 37th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 196 of the 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 192 of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blažja Bradić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 192 of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – two abstentions – no, 195 of the 213 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 200 of the 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunovic and Vesna Marjanovic, submitted together to the 39th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 195 of the 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 194 of the 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193 of the 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 200 of the 214 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 197 of the 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, no 195, of the total of 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, and together by the ambassadors Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 197, of the 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 44th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, together with national ambassadors Gordana Comić and Dejan Nikolic, joint MPs Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – two abstentions – there is no, there is no 190 vote, of the total of 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 192, of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 45th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 195, of the 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 47th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Zoran Zivkovic and joint MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193, of the 214 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193, of the 214 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 194, of the 214 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 211 of the 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193, of the 214 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic to Article 48. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 194, of the 215 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milena Bicanin, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Milorad Mijatovic, together submitted the 49th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 203 of the 215 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 49th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 195 out of the 215 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milena Bicanin, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Milorad Mijatovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 203 of the 215 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 195, of the 215 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 195 out of the 215 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 52, the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 196, of the total of 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 52, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 195, of the 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 195, of the 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 195 of the 215 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaže Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193 of the 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 195 of the 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blažja Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193 of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 195 of the 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted the amendment to Article 63. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193 of the total of 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 65th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 196 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 65th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 193 of the 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 191 of the 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 65th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Vesna Martinović and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaža Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193 of the 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no, 208 of the 211 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic to Article 66. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 189 of the 209 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 68th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 189 of the 209 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 69th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – one, with abstention – there is no, 190 of the 209 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 70th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 188 of the 209 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 192 of the 209 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted the amendment to Article 72. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 188 of the 209 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 191 of the 210 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, abstention – two, 203 of the 211 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 73 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Borislav Stefanović, joint MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic, joint MPs Natasa Vukovic, Prof. Dr Dragoljub Micunović and Vesna Marjanović and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaže Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 187 of the 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 74th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 193 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 75th Amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – three abstentions – there is no, no vote – 191 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 75th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 193 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miodrag Nikolic submitted to the 75th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against the three abstentions, has voted, has voted – 209 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic to Article 76. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 195 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 79th amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 194 of the 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 189 of the total of 210 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milena Bicanin, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Dr. Milorad Mijatovic, together submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 200 of the total of 210 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 81st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 189 of the 209 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 81st Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaža Bradić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 190 of the 209 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vesna Martinović, Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamović and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaže Bradić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 189 of the 209 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 190 of the total of 210 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 82nd Amendment in the same text was submitted by the MPs Olgica Batic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 190, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 20 of the 210 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. Members of the 82nd amendment were submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 198 of the 209 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 194 of the 209 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 189 of the 209 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 85th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 194 of the 210 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted the amendment to article 86. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 192 of the 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 86th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 194 of the 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 192 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 199 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic to article 86. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - two, abstentions - none, no -207 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 88th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Borislav Stefanovic and joint MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović and Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 192 of the total of 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 89th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 196 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vesna Marjanovic and Goran Ciric submitted together to the 89th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 190 of the total of 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 193 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted the amendment to Article 94. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 192 of the 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 95th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 193 of the 211 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 95th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 194 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted the amendment to Article 96. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 189 of the total of 210 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic to Article 96. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 207 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 97th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 197 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 107th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 201 of the 212 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic to Article 109. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – no, 208 of the 212 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 117th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 194 of the 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have come to the conclusion of the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 190, against – 21, the abstentions – there are no, there are no four out of the 215 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act. Moving to point two. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 191, v – 18, abstentions – no, six of the 215 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the amendments were drawn by the MPs Vesna Marjanović and Goran Ciric, on Article 8 of the bill. I also remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment to Article 15, which was submitted by MP Momo Colaković and the amendment to Article 22, which was submitted by the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Ambassador, please, in the voting procedure, I ask all MPs not to approach the chair chair, so is the Rules of Procedure, until I allow it. The First Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, v – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 202 of the 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 197 of the 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 196 of the 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 195, of the 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: four, against – two, abstentions – no, no 208, of the 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 195, of the 214 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 200 out of the 215 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 211, of the 215 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 196, of the 215 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 195 out of the 215 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 195 out of the 215 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 190, against – 22 abstentions – there are no, there are no three votes, of the 215 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. I ask the members of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to hold sittings at the National Assembly session immediately to discuss amendments to the Law on the Elimination of Floods in the Republic of Serbia and to submit reports on this. We'll continue at 1:00 p.m. at the following points. Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. [[after breaks]] In accordance with Article 91 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that, apart from the representatives of the motions of all members of the government, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Aleksandar Damnjanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Traffic and Infrastructure, Marko Blagojevic, Director of the Office for the Aid and Reconstruction of Flooded Areas, Daniel Nikolic, Head of the cabinet of the Secretary General of the Government. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE OTKLANJANJENJO OF THE PURPOSE IN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBJA You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Zlata Đerić, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamović, Meko Omerović, Suzana Spašić, Olgica Batić, Miletic Mihajlović, Dragan Jovanovic, Velimir Stanojević, Ivan Karić, Boris Stefanović, Gorka Karavidić, Biljana Božić, Marko Djurić, Dušan Petrović, Prof. Dr. Janko Vjevinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Koraović, Snjena Koraić, Snjena Malović, Slobodan Home and Dr. Blaje Bradić, as well as well as well as with the planningic's of infrastructure planning, telecommunications. National MPs Dragan Jovanovic, Velimir Stanojevic, as well as National MP Miletic Mihajlovic, have withdrawn the amendments in writing to Article 1. It's a bill of law. You have received the Report of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were together submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Dusan Petrovic, Dr Janko Veseinović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
