ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11082	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, representative of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11083	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, my question today is actually about yesterday's day and turning 22 years old since the abduction, torture and murder of 16 Bosniaks from the North, 16 civilians and 16 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, were kidnapped, tortured and killed, only because they were Bosniaks and because they wore Bosniak names. Today we started there 23rd year after that beast act, and the state of Serbia has not yet shed light on who is the employer and who are all the perpetrators of this crime. The state also did not provide a dignified reparation to the victims' families. What is offered to families is the demeaning of victims, which offends human dignity and insults the entire Bosniak people. Full lighting of all cases of organised state terror against Bosniaks in Sandzak is something that is our civilization and human obligation, and punishing the perpetrator and preventing repetition is a debt to future generations. That is why today I remind you of the parliamentary question I asked on July 15th, because in it, among other things, I asked for the names of the persons who called fascist and threatening passwords in Valjevo – Oj, Pazara new Vukovar and Oj, Sjenica, new Srebrenica. We have addressed a concrete question to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the Republic of Public Prosecutor's Office. We've been looking for names, and since July 15th, we've been waiting and we still don't have the final answer to that question. A lack of reaction is actually encouraging everyone who...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11084	Please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11085	I'm in no condition to concentrate, Mr. Chairman, let alone reach out to you this question I'm asking. The noise is too big in the O.R. and colleagues are unable to listen to what Bosniaks have been surviving for 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11086	Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11087	So the absence of a reaction is actually encouraging everyone who has such ideas to carry them out smoothly, because they won't get any punishment for it. As a direct result of this today in the multiethnic Vojvodina, we have a light case of co-existence in the world of life and the assets of Albanians. Such fascism is today trying to import to Sandzak, where militants from the Ukrainian battlefields are announcing some kind of liberating march, instead of bringing factories, opening up promised jobs, importing Chetniks, war dogs, who are openly barking and cutting into Sandzak and Bosniaks, all three days...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11088	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11089	And that's only three days...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11090	Please, Mr. Imamovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11091	I know it's hard for you, but I only have five minutes to ask a question, and colleagues are unable to listen to five minutes of what Bosniaks have been surviving for 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11092	Go on, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11093	I said that today such fascism is being imported into Sandzak, where militant Chetniks from Ukrainian battlefields are announcing some sort of... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11094	I ask you not to use such words in this high house, because you are still causing the disdain of the majority of MPs and please continue but try to bring an end to asking questions. Sign up, you've got another minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11095	You took at least three minutes of my interruption. This all happens only three days before elections for national councils of national minorities, only three days before Bosniaks should choose their Bosniak-nationalally larger. This is an objective danger for Bosniaks in Serbia. We haven't heard from anyone from the government, not even the minister and his ambassadors from Sandzak to stand up and raise their voice against this. This brings me to the questions I refer to the prime minister and the co-ordinator of the Security Service – what was done to prevent the realisation of the threats sent to the citizens of Novi Pazar by some Chetnik commanders from the Ukrainian wars? The second question concerns solving the case of 16 killed Bosniaks in the North at Priboj, who are the employers and who are the perpetrators of this crime? I would like to remind you that just at his press conference on September 25th this year in the middle of a campaign to elect a national council, threatening Bosniaks in Sandzak, he reminded them that the Bosniaks today live as a minority in those municipalities in Sandzak. One of those municipalities is Priboy. That Preyboy from where the 16 abducted and murdered Bosniaks came from. The other of those municipalities is Prepolje, that municipality where 18 Bosniaks were killed and abducted...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11096	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11097	Dear Chairman, honourable Members, I have several very specific questions, addressed to several addresses of resolution ministries, and I hope to receive answers from the same, concrete ones. My first question is to the Ministry of Mining. In the past few years, we have been able to hear a number of different insinuations and even regrets about the mining rentals. Many have actually said that Serbia's mine rent is much lower than other countries. My question to the resolution ministry is – exactly how much did the Republic of Serbia receive from this mining rental and did the ministry do a parallel analysis of Serbia's mining rent with an ore rent of countries in the environment, based on which parameters is actually the mining rent set in the prescribed amount? My next question is to the Ministry of the Interior. Namely, the respected interior minister, while serving as president of the Assembly, proposed one quality law, and that is the one we all remember well, which enabled health insurance for minors and pregnant women and in those cases where they had no such insurance before. However, I must stress the fact that the right to marriage in Serbia is guaranteed by the Constitution, but the various failures in the legal system are being threatened in many and different ways. For example, a person who changed his last name when entering marriage must make a new ID card, a new biometric passport. That's about 5,000 dinars for an ordinary family. If that person has a registered company on him, there will be a lot of additional costs, and everything about a change of last name, due to the fee for issuing new documents, in exactly these cases. My question is - did the MUP take any steps to lift taxis and pay for personal IDs in those situations where they change because of the change in last name when they enter into marriage, or if they are going to do such a thing, since it is necessary to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I do not think there is such a thing at this point. My next question is to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. The law on pre-school education and education provides that in pre-school institutions, the founder of the Republic of Serbia or local self-government units, it is the parents of children who pay 20% of the economic price for each child and the founder bears 80% of the price. However, we are witnessing that a number of local self-governments in our country reverse this participation ratio in the costs of pre-school institutions and parents account for about 50%, and somewhere even 80% of this economic price. Since this area belongs to the Ministry of Education's portfolio, my question to the Minister of Education is – when was the last time inspection of how these institutions were financed and what measures were taken to force units of local self-government to enforce this law in this way? My final question is to the Department of Industry. In fact, some time ago, the National Assembly adopted a new Law on Privatisation. Among other things, this law also provides for public invitations to collect letters of interest for privatisation entities and that is for most privatisation entities. Given the state of our economy that we cannot boast of, especially the state of privatisation entities, I think it is necessary to know how realistic the investor is interested in privatising the remaining privatisation entities. In that sense, my question to the Ministry of Economy is, how many percent of the privatisation entities have arrived in such letters, how many letters of interest were there at all, and, of course, according to the data from the letters of interest, since the same and by the letter of the law also contain an indicative price, how much is it in line with these letters and how much is the current assessment of the Ministry of Economy exactly about the revenues that will be achieved by privatising these enterprises, which have reached the letters of interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11098	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic. Here you go, Mrs. Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11099	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I address the question of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection and, on the other hand, as a member of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, and as regards the spilling of toxic waste from the dump of processed ore of antimony from the mine “Stolice”, since several headlines have appeared in the last few days in the media, among others, titles such as “Tough metals from the mine are headed for Savi”, “Jalovina deletes the living world”, and other titles, namely, the mud that contains toxic metals with water from this damaged mine are headed for Drina, registered with Badovics, and the results of the water analysis of Kostanik, Jadra and Drina, which have been published on the Agency for Environment, show high concentrations of heavy metals. These articles state that the municipalities of Krupanj, whose territory is in ruins and the City of Loznica, have demanded a response from the authorities and say they have not received any response for five months. That's why I thought we should ask certain questions. Namely, the Environment Ministry announced when they were flooded, as a result of the floods that the "Stolice" gap is the biggest reason as a result of the May floods, as hundreds of thousands of cubic targets of dangerous mining waste are in the damaged waste and estimated damage to this gap, they say, entered the official report by the Serbian government for a donor conference on Serbia and BiH, which, as we know, are affected by the floods. The Environment Committee has requested information on the quantities and locations in which dangerous waste is found in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as information on its removal strategy and we received that response on 5 September 2014. I note this information because it states that during the May floods, dangerous waste has been particularly endangered in bankrupt or restructuring enterprises. On the other hand, in the report of the Control and Control Sector on the effects of the flood wave on the environment, it is literally like this – that there has been no contact with the water of significant quantities of hazardous matter in the floods. The term "significant amounts" I really wouldn't know how to describe. It is these most recent events that show that these are actually conflicting claims, and what especially I, as someone from this profession, is interested in the question of this very mud that is now moving, and it is seen that it has literally spread to all sides, because this mud represents a record of what has happened, or what has been poured out. The sediment will later emit harmful substances, adversely affect water, and according to what the citizens of the region are complaining about, they say that it is a dead and plant and animal world in the area. That's why I think it's extremely important, and that's why I'm asking the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection as well as the Environment Agency, first of all, for what has been shown to monitor the quality of mud or professionally as the sediment is said, as far as that mud from this pit has arrived? Then the second question, who owns the mine and what measures will be taken to stop the swelling of the mud and were the donor funds requested as seen in those statements made by the ministry? Are the donor funds requested for the recovery of the damage created by this mine? By the way, let me point out, in the records of locations where dangerous materials are registered, the one received by the Environment Protection Committee, this mine is not found. Therefore, I would also like to ask, since the Committee on Environmental Protection is scheduled to hold a special session of the Committee on the Environment and to invite representatives of the Ministry and the Environment Agency to present in detail the results of the survey on the consequences of the floods, not only in the area of this mine, but also in other places that have been flooded. I only hope that a competent person will come to that meeting, that no state secretary in charge of the environment, which is usually a defectologist by profession, or director of the Environment Agency, will come, which I don't know what's at stake. It's just not possible for citizens not to get information, no matter how much they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11100	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11101	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would have a question for the finance minister, labour minister, martial arts and social affairs and the health ministry. Here's exactly what this is about. These days, branches of tax administrations in local self-governments, cities and municipalities are being ordered to enforce the debt of farmers from previous years for social, health and pension insurance. This would be no dispute if these debts were not from previous years and what is a major problem, is that the tax administration is moving into enforcement without having previously heard parties, which brings people to a major problem for one simple reason only because there are, first of all, nursing households living in the rural area. There are also specific situations, above all, that in a family community where owners have people who have been medically ill and who, according to their disease code, have been verifying health books, and that they have also owed themselves for the previous period, i.e. debt for pension or health insurance. Also, there are damages to those who lived in marriage, so the death of their spouses receive a family pension, and they are also on the debtors' lists, and I would first of all ask the finance minister and V.D. Director of the Republic Tax Administration to impose that procedure on them to be more transparent and to take all these reasons into account. Why am I asking this question to other ministers, health and social policy? Because the health minister has promised to form a working group that will come up with a concrete solution by the end of the year, that people living in registered land and paying for contributions through their land, not to be in the same situation. I will remind fellow MPs and citizens who are watching this transfer that someone, regardless of who owns five or 50 hectares of the country, is paying the same amount for pension insurance that is 62,000 dinars per year, and for health insurance it amounts to 32,000 dinars. That's me and my colleagues, and I think all the MPs here, we find unfair, and we think that those who have more should pay more, and those who are small and who live in nursing homes pay a much smaller amount for both health and pension insurance. Another question concerning the Ministry of Finance. This year, for the first time, a tax on farmers' income will be charged after a new account. So far, farmers have paid a copy of the cadastrian value of parcels, and this year the newspaper will pay on the basis of market value. These sums sent by local self-governments these days, as local tax authorities do, are significantly higher up to 10 or 15 times compared to the previous years, when these sums were symbolic. I would ask the Ministry of Finance that because of the specific situation that was in this year, that we have had floods, natural disasters and everything else, to try, because we already have here tomorrow in the tide and discussion of budget rebalancing, to try to make one conclusion that local self-government is able to reduce this tax or decrease or in a significant part, if I may say so, forgive those masters that were the most damaged which in the May floods, which in the elemental disasters, which occurred even after the May floods. One more question. Minister Vulin announced amendments to the Social Aid Act. Since I am running out of time, just one little observation and a request for a minister, that local self-governments are consulted before the new law is passed, and that precise social maps for citizens of individual local self-governments are passed, because different kinds of social assistance can only be done with those who are able to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11102	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11103	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I have a few questions first of all for you, or for the Headship of the Assembly. In fact, the MPs of our parliamentary group filed four laws in the assembly procedure on October 7th. Some of these laws have been refused by the ruling majority to put on the agenda, although it is laws that, if adopted, could end a strike by a lawyer who has been blocking Serbia's judiciary for more than a month and a half. What we're interested in is why aren't these laws on the Assembly site? Does this mean that our laws are second-row laws so they can't be found on the Assembly site, since the laws that come from the Government on the same day are being published in the procedure on the Assembly site? The second question concerns the fact that the Rules of Procedure and the fact that MPs do not receive answers from the competent authorities to which the question has been asked. I asked more than 15 days ago what's going on at the Fiat Cars Serbia factory, and what's the future of this factory, and what does the government plan to do about it? I didn't get the answer until today. What I got was that day that one of my fellow MPs, asking a parliamentary question, tried to answer, so he did it quite unwittingly, saying that this is now capitalism, that we live in capitalism and that the state of Serbia cannot interfere in the work of a private firm. What he obviously didn't know or didn't want to say is that the plant "Fiat Cars Serbia" is a company in which the state of Serbia has 33.33% ownership and in this sense the state of Serbia and that it has the right and should worry about what is happening in the "Fiita". In the budget rebalancing we received yesterday afternoon, which we will discuss tomorrow morning, it can be seen that the largest exporter for the first eight months in the Republic of Serbia is the plant "Fiat Cars Serbia" with 947m euros in exports. The first next exporter is 255m euros, NIS. So it's the most convincing exporter. The state of Serbia appointed two new members in the Supervisory Board in the factory on September 5th, to which it has the right based 33.33% of ownership, a certain Danil Cicmil, 28 years old, as chairman of the Supervisory Board and Neda Galic, 29 years old. On the APR site you can see other members of the Supervisory Board. One of them is Mr Alfredo Altavila, Vice-President of the Fiat Group. Imagine Mr. Altaville coming to a meeting Mr. Cicmil when he was 28. What agenda does he propose, and what are they discussing there, how do we start with the production of a new model, because it's obvious that this model that is currently being produced has ended its century? Will the state of Serbia do something about it or will we wait for the factory to close, so that the state of Serbia will take it and buy it for a dinar, euro or I don't know why? I asked that question. I didn't get the answer. I asked the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry. Chairman, since the president is not here right now, I ask you to make sure that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I get an answer to the asked question. The last question I would like to ask today is what will the state of Serbia do about the decision of the International Olympic Committee yesterday to join full membership of the sports organisation and whether the decision stems from the Brussels Agreement, signed a year and a half ago, where Serbia has committed not to condition Kosovo's entry into international institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11104	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. It is my duty to answer the question of the Assembly. What I got from the Service, you didn't deliver in electronic form the proposed laws, so they couldn't be found on the Assembly site. When you deliver in electronic form, they'll be on the website. As far as your other questions are concerned, we will ask that you get answers as soon as possible, especially those you haven't received. That for years, I think in some other democratically decorated states we also have ministers of those years, so we don't need anyone in the Constitution to deny the right to be elected to the authorities of the state administration. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11105	Thank you. The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliamentarians, who is interested in citizens of New Belgrade, citizens of Grocka, citizens of Serbia are related to the "Electro-distribution of Belgrade" which is an investor in Block 32 in New Belgrade, which builds a traffic station of 110km. Also, Electrodistribution is an investor in the construction of a 400km power line in Vinci. What is quite clear is that, according to applicable laws, the investor, in this case, "Electrition of Belgrade", has the right to build such a trafo station or a power line wherever they want, without having to do a study on environmental pollution. However, on the side of the citizens, in this case, who are extremely concerned about their health, are extremely concerned about the protection of the environment, the following facts: the Law on protection against non-conclusive radiation, which in Article 3 decidently and explicitly prohibits any unnecessary exposure to non-conclusive radiation. This exposure, and when it comes to trafo stations in New Belgrade and the Vinca power line, is completely unnecessary for the simple reason that other routes and elsewhere are possible with minimal means to remove these two facilities and thus protect both the environment and human health. The Archun Convention, which Serbia verified in May 2009, also speaks of the right of citizens to access information. I will remind citizens, Vince and the citizens of Block 32, have sent countless letters to the competent ministries, the media, those in charge, and even to Elektro-distribution as an investor, and have never received a single answer. Also, the right of citizens to take part in decisions on the environment, this Convention is also guaranteed in the end, the right to protection in case the previous two rights are violated, the right of citizens to solve this problem together with the state through one dialogue and one debate. All rights are here from this convention that Serbia has ratified violated. Also, expected radiation, I'd like to say something, and on that subject, the trans-station will be about four micro-bodys. That means it's four times smaller than the legal maximum of 40 micro bodies. When it comes to Vinci, radiation can reach up to 100 microbodies, which is two and a half times the legal maximum. What I wanted to potential here is research into the World Health Organization that I hold in my hand and that's something the Ministry completely ignores. The next thing is that, according to the latest World Health Organization research, all over 0.4 mycortesle is very harmful not only to the environment, but also to the health of children and people who are close to these objects. What is very important, and this law does not have to be changed immediately, but it is very important that certain countries as EU member states have made a recommendation that any future investment on trafostations and power lines have made a recommendation not to be above 0.4 micro-bodys of radiation, which dramatically affects human health and environmental protection. We're asking a question -- why can't this move out in places where a transistor station and a power line could also be built, where it wouldn't affect the protection of the environment and human health? We're asking a question -- on the basis of which data is given so-called. an assessment of the environmental impact analysis and what parameters are used when it comes to protecting the environment and human health on the basis of which the ministry is based, and in this case is the Elektrodistribution of Belgrade, based on which they decided to enter this type of investment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11106	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11107	My question to the government of the Republic of Serbia stems from events that occurred after the break-up of the football match between the Republic of Serbia and Albania, which threatened to cause serious destabilisation of international relations in certain parts of the Republic of Serbia, particularly in Kosovo and Metohija. However, with the rapid reaction of the competent state authorities, especially the MUP, the situation has been stabilised in such a way as to detect the deceased. In the days following the match, 23 buildings were damaged, mostly bakers and catering facilities and mosques in Subotica, of which four in Belgrade, 19 in Vojvodina. Informative conversations were held with 92 persons. 11 minors and six minors were detained and all reported for the destruction and damage of objects and promotion and the cause of racial and religious intolerance were filed against them. This challenge of racial and religious intolerance certainly is what we need to pay attention to. On this occasion, I would like to commend the reaction of the competent state authorities, but also to ask – what will be done next in areas that are particularly sensitive to racial and religious intolerance, such as the Rasko-Polim area? We had a destabilising situation in that part of our territory, when some were walking in green uniforms that associated people with other nationalities, other religions to something that was fascist evil in World War II, to some hangar division. Now we have a situation where on the other hand there's another rally or march, and today, if I'm not mistaken, in New Market. It is known who in the Republic of Serbia has the right to wear uniforms and no one else can wear them. If we want to stabilize relationships, then we should always respond in time. What has been done to detect the perpetrators of these 24 attacks after the football game, certainly is one way to prevent extremists from disrupting international and interfaith relations, but also to show that the state will not tolerate those who cause these incidents. I can't understand when in this home only lists the number of incidents, and on the other hand there's nothing to be said about the state doing anything to punish the perpetrators, no country in the world can prevent all possible incidents and the functioning of extremists, but when the perpetrators of the incidents are discovered very quickly and in due time, then, on the one hand, the execution of such acts is prevented, and on the other hand, the determination of the state is shown. My question is what will be done in the coming period specifically to prevent groups that intend to organise, with some markings, in some uniforms of interference between international and interfaith relations in Serbia? The next issue is about what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia did during his stay as president of the Russian Federation of Putin. In fact, the Serbian prime minister asked the Russian president to allow the export of cars produced in Kragujevac to a vast Russian market, which showed his intention to preserve what may be the biggest giant in the Serbian heavy industry right now, which is the production of cars, not to close jobs, but to maybe open up a new one, for the state to profit from the job. I'm curious as far as I can get into the realization of this extremely important job, if it's approved by the Russian Federation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11108	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Miljana Nikolic, Momo Colaković and Aida Ćorovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND APPLICATION OF THE LAW ON PRIVATEZATION AGENCY pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Željko Sertic, Minister of Industry, Dusan Vujović, Minister of Finance and Aleksandr Antić, Minister of Mining and Energy, I have also called for today's session to attend: Mirjana Filipović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mining and Energy, Milun Trivunac, Assistant Minister of Industry, Zlatko Milikić, Assistant Minister of Finance, Dusan Sutanov, Director of the Centre for the Market of Capital in the Privatisation Agency, Branka Radović, Legal Advisor of the Privatisation Agency, Jadranka Špehar, Senior Project Manager at the Agency for Privatisation, the Agency for Privatisation, Jadranka Šovanić, Tijelenić, Minister of Finance and Minister of Finance of Finance, Tijelenić. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Borislav Stefanović, Goran Ćirić, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Martinović, Dragan Jovanovic and Dubravka Filipovski, as well as the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, in writing, withdrew amendments to Articles 18 and 19. Proposal for a Law, and MP Aleksandar Maksimovic, amendment to which the title and Article 19 are added after article 18. It's a bill of law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11109	In the principle debate, we explained why we submitted these amendments. In one sentence, the reason is because they amend the Law on Privatisation, even these amendments will not make any progress in the privatisation process, which is obvious for these two months, how long the passed law takes. On our behalf, Mr Pavicevic and in his own behalf, I ask Minister Sertic's apology because in the discussion, in principle, he said he could not discuss our amendments, because they are legally incorrect. It's on the 35-page stenogram. It is one big insult, because the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives found at a session held this morning that all our amendments are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the state. Therefore, since Sertic is not here, I expect her colleague, Minister Vujovic, to apologize to the two of us, because we have never submitted any amendments that are outside the legal system and outside the constitution. As regards the specific amendment to Article 1, it would be good to explain how amendments listed in the review of the provisions that are being amended are not listed in the text of that Article. Namely, the last position, in which it writes – the level of commission in Item 2(2) of this article is prescribed by the Minister responsible for economics and regional development, so it is deleted and written – businesses. That part of the text, that change, you don't have in the amendment. This means, if this bill is adopted, it will remain in the law the last position mentioned by the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, which does not exist in the current division of power, i.e. in the Law on Government and Ministry. I urge you to answer this question, as well as an apology. I can wait for Sertic, but it would be fair to get it from the present minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11110	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that it is absolutely without purpose to comment on these amendments, which are being deleted, we have had the opportunity to discuss this in the adoption of the Privatisation Act, I cannot help but look back on it and not comment on the fact that such an amendment is completely independent. That's the easiest word. The explanation is also pointless – as the solutions proposed by the Privatisation Law will not lead to better conditions for economic development. Yeah, it's gonna lead to better conditions. It says – it will not lead to the preservation of social stability through the opening of new jobs or the preservation of existing jobs. Yes, on the contrary, this very bill will lead to the preservation of social stability through the opening of new or preservation of existing jobs. Then it is said in an explanation – that no stabilisation of the macroeconomic environment has been created. That's where I agree. No stabilisation was created, but it's not us who are responsible, it's you or at least the party on whose list you've been selected, Mr. Zivkovic. For all these reasons, I suggest we reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11112	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica, I was mentioned directly. Did you mention Mr. Zivkovic's name? (Alexander Markovic, from the post: Yes. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11113	The noise in the hall can hardly be the result of the opposition because the opposition has little, which is definitely, I agree, and too little for Serbia, which is very bad, but it's not a topic. The theme is that it is truly fascinating that some MPs with the likely immeasurable experience of MPs, because they do not have it, so it is immeasurable, know better draft laws than ministers who are authorized by the government to defend them. This does not exist in any parliament in the world, that when there is a minister who proposes a law, then some MPs jump and defend the law better than the minister himself could defend it. That's completely pointless. There's been a few insults here, it's inconsistencies. So any MP in accordance with the Constitution and Serbia's legal system can propose an amendment. It's not a question of whether the amendment went too far or not. He is in Serbia's constitutional justice system, and it must be respected. Whether it will be adopted, whether most will understand the message from that amendment, that's another thing and that's why there are consequences, but that tolerance that someone with an immeasurable experience determines in anything other than progression, radicalism or radicalism, it's completely pointless. So I'm reporting because I've been mentioned and I've been given the opportunity to ask the Minister for an explanation again, for what I asked about this amendment, and to get an apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11114	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11115	Mr. Zivkovic, I didn't understand why I should apologize. I would just like to read Article 18 of the proposed amendments to the law, which reads – in the Privatisation Agency Act, the words "Minister of Economy and Regional Development Affairs" are replaced by the words "Minister of Business Affairs", and the words "Minister of Economic and Regional Development" are replaced by the words "Special Ministry of Privatisation Affairs" are replaced by the words "Secretary of Economy and Regional Development". I think that's the answer to your remark and I think it covers all the places where it appears in the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11116	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11117	It's the replica. The previous speaker, the speaker before the minister, tried to give an adjudication to my modesty, and he said immeasurable, experience, probably alluding to my age and that I had no special experience in the MP's bench. I agree, Mr. Chairman, that my experience is modest. This is my first term, but my humble experience, Mr. Chairman, has taught me to stay out of it and stay out of things I don't understand and know nothing about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11118	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11119	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think, although the minister is present in the hall, that MPs do not have the right to comment on the amendments of other MPs and of course the opposition has the right to propose and criticise all laws, bill proposals, and the MPs who belong to the ruling coalition have the right to do so. This amendment concerns the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency, Article 1, i.e. essentially referred to Article 5. The law on the Privatisation Agency. If you look at Article 5, then it is quite clear that one of the key members for the functioning of the Privatisation Agency is. It regulates the resources necessary for the functioning and establishment of the Agency, i.e. the resources necessary for its work. The article doesn't change much more. The funds for the establishment of the agency remain primary from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and another source for the establishment of the agency is the funds stemming from donations, contributions, which stem from domestic and foreign, legal and natural persons. As regards the funds provided for by the Agency’s work, they shall continue to be provided from revenue stemming from the functioning of agencies in accordance with law, donations, contributions and subsidies stemming from domestic and legal persons, natural persons and there shall certainly be a change, where it is said that the funds from privatisation and commissions made in the privatisation process are the key means for the functioning of the Agency. The change concerns the shares that constitute the assets of the fund-based institution and the category ceases to exist. The provision, which is the main source of funding for the functioning of the Privatisation Agency in the future period, is certainly the essence of the resources necessary for the functioning of the Agency and this is not the discretionary right of the Agency. As so far, the level of the commission is determined by the competent ministry and it is only a technical matter that will no longer be done by the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, but will be done by the Ministry of Economy. These amendments to the draft laws and additions of the Privatisation Agency Act in Article 5, i.e. Article 1 of this proposal are in fact merely formalised and brought into line with the laws previously adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11120	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11121	Mr President, on the basis of the proposed amendment to the addictive, sorry, independent MPs and all their proposed amendments, I am truly fascinated by the destructive manner in proposing the amendment, but well, we have the right to do so. I would like to point out that the purpose of the new Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privatisation Agency is to enable the Privatisation Act to be properly applied as a procedural instrument. It is the Law on Privatisation that needs to create a better economic environment and greater social stability, a stable macroeconomic policy and the prevention of budget drains through planned privatisation procedures, and this law aims only to enable the implementation of the Privatisation Act. Also, the goal is that the story of privatisation is not just a story and a dead letter on paper as it has been, but that this story finally ends in the right and the right way. I expect this government to end it, and of course all our MPs and citizens. So, I propose that an amendment be submitted by independent MPs and all their submitted amendments refuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11122	I thank Mrs. Mrdakovic Todorovic. Please, it is the right of every MP to submit amendments in the form in which he knows best and can, as is your right of all MPs to comment on these amendments and to give an opinion on the proposed amendments. The word is from the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11123	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Vujovic, we are pleased to have you back in this assembly, the respected guest from the ministry, Mr Becic, I believe that a member of 107 has just been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic. In article 107, he writes – a speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The speaker respects the dignity of the National Assembly when he respects the dignity of other MPs. Mrs. Mrdakovic was just commenting on the amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency announced, the Honored Chairman, that Mr. Zivkovic and I in this Assembly are applying a destructive approach, i.e. that we have a destructive manner in the context of the debate on the draft laws sent by the Government to the Assembly. Dear Mr. Becic, I remind you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law in this morning's session has announced that this amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. This means that we cannot talk about us applying any or that we are bound by destructive manners, and if that is true, Mr. Becic, then your obligation as chairman is to adhere to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that every time a MP or a member of the People's Parliament, or any other political party, here, violates a member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and especially the one concerning the dignity of the National Assembly, react, warn the MP or MP that this must not be done. If it continues with such actions, you shall give a warning measure on the basis of Article 109. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11124	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. As you are witnessing that I have done so after the presentation of the previous speaker, I have warned that every MP has the right to propose amendments in the form that he knows best and can, as everyone has the right to comment in the form he knows and knows the amendment. It was my duty to warn the MPs at the beginning of this debate in such a way to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and every time I follow the Rules of Procedure, I will respond. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11125	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Chairman, is the right of every MP to propose laws and amendments. Although it is claimed that I once disputed it, I claim that the stenograms clearly show that I never challenged the opposition to propose amendments. On the contrary, I have repeatedly voted in favour of the opposition's proposals. Academia, it is congratulating to propose amendments, in particular it is congratulating to submit such a type of amendment to be ‘expunged’. There's academic honesty beyond doubt, but I've been convinced by rhetoric several times, first of all, that I should vote in favour of the amendment to the opposition and I did so myself. You can statistically check how many times I've voted for the amendments of previous speakers, the promoter, but I'm saying it's happened at least ten times. To my surprise, amendment promoters who have the full right to propose this amendment did not vote for their amendments themselves. Now, I might have voted in favour of this amendment if the proposings at earlier sessions, at earlier votes, had voted in favour of their amendment, even if they had convinced me that I should vote in favour of such amendments. The quality of an amendment as an MP can be appreciated by the presence or absence of a vote in favour of the same amendment. As a witness and gentlemen MPs, they can confirm that during the vote, the motions of these amendments are necessarily not present for the vote, so they do not vote for their amendments, which, during the debate, strongly convince us that it is academic and parliamentaryly fair to vote for this amendment. When I am persuaded and decided to vote in favour of that amendment and to vote in favour of that amendment, then I find that I am an amendment promoter, not that he did not vote in that session, but is not present during the vote on their amendments. This tells us about the quality of these amendments and tells us that the promoter himself has very doubts about the quality of his amendment, as soon as he has avoided voting for the amendment he has proposed in his absence. For these reasons, I cannot accept that in the future I am voting for the opposition amendments, which has the right to propose, for the simple reason that they do not want to support their own amendment and thus speak of the quality of the proposal they have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11126	Thank you. Does anyone else appear by amendment, to finish discussing whether MPs can or can't submit amendments? Nobody. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Minister Vujovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, we have also submitted the amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency, which provides that the contents of Article 2 of this proposal are deleted. This essentially means that not all the amendments proposed in Article 6 of the existing Privatisation Agency Act are not accepted. On the occasion of this amendment, Mr Vujovicu, I think it is necessary that you, on behalf of Minister Sertic and on behalf of the Serbian Government, first apologize to Mr Zivkovic and me, because Mr Sertic is in the principle debate, commenting on the content of our amendments, and in this case the amendment to Article 2. The bill, he said that only one of our amendments was correct, and then he added - about the largest part of the amendment that your MP group had submitted - we couldn't talk about because they were legally incorrect. It's in the stenogram from that session. Obviously, Mr Vujovic, that was not true because this morning the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives decided and informed us here that our amendment is to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of our country. Mr Vujovicu, please apologize on behalf of the Government for this mistake made by Mr Sertic two days ago and I ask you one more thing, that you do not make that mistake again today regarding our amendments. You were wrong once when you misjudged the constitutionality of our amendment and I beg you not to make a mistake by turning down one of our amendments again. So we urge you to reconsider and accept that Article 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Agency Act is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11128	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11129	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, we had the opportunity yesterday on the board to hear Mr Pavicevic and his theory that all members of practically this law of the Amendment and Supplement Law should be deleted. In the first sessions when we received such suggestions, we simply thought it was a political inexperience. In the second part of the session, which also had such proposals, we felt that it was an attempt to profile a little marketing party, even in such a way that all the bill's proposals were deleted. But now a political message is being sent that this parliament should not work and adopt laws, that all the bill's proposals should be deleted, that no solution should go in the direction of development, that simply Serbia should sleep. If he is to sleep, then let him sleep with the New Party, but should not sleep in a work dealing with serious politics and economic reforms of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11130	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. (Employor Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ) Replication to the position of Member Tomic? Your amendment is fine, but I don't know if you can replicate your amendment by your Rules of Procedure without being offended or hurt. (Employor Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yes. It's a personal feeling, but it's not a publicly spoken word. The word is Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11131	The amendment to Article 2 shall concern Article 6. The law on the Privatisation Agency. No matter which political party we belong to, no matter what political views we represent, this amendment changes and wants them to stop changing into three key things that the government proposes. They should not be questioned regardless, to say again, and to point out which political option you belong to. What do we propose to change? We ask that instead of government capital be referred to as public capital. We ask that the Privatisation Agency lose control of the privatisation process, which I believe is not at all controversial. When it comes to the third thing we're asking for the Privatisation Agency to no longer deal with real estate, because we'll all agree, real estate is a very narrow term. We ask the Privatisation Agency to deal with the property of the privatisation entity, so that includes already real estate, including other forms of property, above all rights. The privatisation agency will continue to promote the privatisation process, implement the privatisation process, as well as the sale of public capital expressed in shares, and Article 4 speaks of all owners of the capital at the level of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that this amendment should not be accepted because it may be the result of a political attitude, which is fine, but essentially it contributes to a better functioning of the Agency and a more precise definition of basic concepts.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11132	Thank you. The word is Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11133	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the SNS cannot accept this amendment submitted to Article 2. The Privatisation Agency Act, which requires his erasure with the reasons we've already heard, so I'm not going to read it again. What is precisely defined by Article 2 are the powers and obligations of the Privatisation Agency, all with a view to simplifying the privatisation process and speeding up. As we've heard more than once, to comply with the Privatization Act itself, and the Privatization Act is something that was discussed here two months ago. It was a harsh controversy and most of the present voted in favour of this law, so it can definitely be confirmed that it was a good law. Thank you. (Employor Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: May I? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11134	My position is further, two minutes you've had. You explained. There's no controversy with the MPs because they think differently from you. (Employor Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Dear President, may I try to explain why I think I have the right? I thank you. In the next amendments. (Employee Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) If there is an abuse, I take two minutes of your five total. Here you go. Do you agree? What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11135	I agree. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Ministers of Vujović and the Honored Guests, I believe that a member of our 104th National Assembly's Rules of Procedure has already been injured when you, the respected President of Gojkovic, have not given me the right to reply and in the position of Article 104 finesse: that one MP can misread the presentation of another MP. If you'll excuse me, let me explain how Mrs. Tomic did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11136	I'll give you two minutes to answer the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11137	So I'm right?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11138	I'm not gonna say you're right, but take two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11139	Thank you. Finally, we have one situation to respect the Rules of Procedure until the end. Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11140	You'll be wasting your time. Let the service return time for zero seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11141	Thank you. Bravo. We fought it. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to respond to Mrs Tomic, who, commenting on the content of our amendment to Article 2, announced two things that I don't think were a good interpretation of what our actions were in the National Assembly. Mrs. Tomic here said that by preparing the amendment to the proposals of the law, Zoran Zivkovic and I are actually asking that all laws be deleted and all bill proposals. That's what I wrote down. Dear President, I would only like Mrs Tomic to hear that it is not true that we have suggested that all members of all the draft laws that have come to this National Assembly be deleted. On the contrary, gentlemen, Zoran Zivkovic and I have even voted here for some draft laws sent by the Government to the Assembly without submitting any amendments. The last such bill that we voted for and which became the law was the law on the prevention of doping in a sport that defended here, for example. Minister Udovic. We've voted in favour of a few other draft laws before. I pray to Mrs. Tomic, when speaking and commenting on our performances here, the proposal, even amendments to speak precisely and precisely. The other thing, Mrs. Tomic, the Honorable President, has here announced that it is not right for MPs to sleep, but for the New Party to sleep. On the contrary, to tell Mrs Tomic, Mrs Gojkovic, that the New Party has just prepared a programme – new mobilization.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11142	Please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11143	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11144	Replication to amendment. Don't talk about sleeping.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11145	On the occasion of the amendment to Article 2, let me just say to Mrs Tomic then that we have seven principles of new mobilization that are just saying otherwise – no sleep.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11146	It's been a while, thank you. There's a lot of amendments, they're the same promoters, it's the same text, there's gonna be an opportunity. I thank you for your understanding. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 2 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11147	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, for the sake of truth and only truth, the Amendment on Amendments to the Law on the Privatisation Agency, all 17 members by Mr Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic is, in principle, deleted, but this amendment is an amendment to the Committee concerning Article 2. The draft law amending Article 6 after Article 2 and adding a new position, which reads – in the process of selling shares, i.e. shares transferred to the Agency after the termination of the contract on the sale of capital concluded between the Agency and the buyer, shall apply the provisions on the write-off of the debt prescribed by the law governing privatisation. So far, paragraphs 3 and 4 become paragraphs 4 and 5. In the light of this amendment, the Committee is closer to regulating the possibility that when the Government makes certain decisions by state creditors in the process of selling shares, it is practically conditional on the write-off of the debt with the state of 31 December 2012. This has largely been done by the ministry under the existing law, and since we are now giving the Agency more authority, then we need to comply with the new Privatisation Act and give the Agency practical opportunity to give the government conditional write off the debt because investors would trust in working with the Agency, to finish most of the work, so as not to overload the ministry's work in the privatisation process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11148	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11149	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Presidents Mrs Gojkovic, Honored Minister Vujovic, Honored Guests of the Ministry, we have proposed to delete Article 3 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privatisation Agency. Article 3 is otherwise intended to amend Article 8 of the existing Law on the Privatisation Agency, and our opinion is that the key reason why the Ministry and Minister Sertic sent here to the National Assembly as a reason enough to accept this article is not good, because the following reason is stated – it is necessary to harmonise the provisions of the Privatisation Act with the provisions of the new Privatisation Act. Mr Vujovicu, you were in this assembly when we spent the whole day and almost all night discussing a point by point here, a member of the Privatisation Law proposal then, now the Privatisation Act. At that time, we felt that the new law was not necessary. I understand you're in one piece, and I mean well, and you've accepted our argument. If that's true, then we object because we now want to comply with another law that we have assessed was not necessary. Another thing, Mr Vujovicu, is really necessary to apologize on behalf of the Government for Mr Sertic being in the principle debate here for this amendment to Article 3. The bill of law told us it wasn't legally correct. That was a terrible insult to us. Then, especially this morning, I went to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs to discuss there if it is thought to be legally incorrect. Fortunately, the Committee has concluded that our amendment is legally final.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11150	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11151	Thank you, Madam President. Of course I suggest that this amendment, amendment to Article 3, be rejected with the same explanation as for all 17 amendments. I'm sure, Madam President, that you, like all MPs, are simply astounded by this and this reasoning. I'm particularly surprised by that part of the argument that says no responsible economic policy is being conducted. Madam President, if this policy implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is not a responsible economic policy, then I do not know what is responsible economic policy. If these reform proposals of the law that the Government is proposing to us, and we accept, that is, we adopt, among other things, this proposal for a law on the Privatisation Agency and this particular Article 3, to which it has been submitted, I will say again, no matter what amendment. I know now that a respected speaker sitting across from me is going to say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has considered the amendment and considers it in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, but that does not mean that this amendment is not harmful and it is not pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11152	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Kovacevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11153	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, when the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency, in Article 3, it said that Article 8. The Privatisation Agency Act is deleted. With this amendment, we have the idea that this Article 3 that the Government has proposed to delete is deleted. Practically, we want this amendment to keep Article 8 in the Privatisation Agency Act. Article 8 regulates, above all, the initiation of the privatisation process and this is already regulated by Article 6, which will be amended if adopted. It says -- if there is an initiative to launch the privatisation process, that initiative for a social capital enterprise is launched by the Ministry of Economy, or if it is public capital, the government of the Republic of Serbia does. The second point is the restructuring process. I think there is no one in this room and in the state of Serbia who believes that non-privatised enterprises should continue to retain their status, some of them, in which they are located. The price of these companies is too high for the Republic of Serbia's budget, so by keeping and accepting this amendment, they would give the Agency the right to propose and initiate new procedures, not only privatisations, but restructuring, which would have disastrous consequences for the Republic of Serbia's budget. The other things the Agency will continue to do, and they are already defined, if this draft law on the Privatisation Agency is adopted, in Article 6. So, the essence of these changes proposed by the government is to change and the privatisation process that needs to be faster. I agree with Mr Pavicevic, at that session that lasted deep into the night, it seems to me that all MP groups have reached a consensus that the privatisation process must be as fast, more efficient, with an uncontested social component.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11154	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11155	Thank you very much. Another amendment that is phenomenally important, the essence of the amendment is that the Agency deals with the determination of the privatisation method in the privatisation entity, that the decision is taken from the Agency and given to the Ministry. This is the essence of Article 9, to raise the level of decision-making, as in Article 8, was the beginning of the privatisation process, both in Article 9 around the model and method. The question is why, why is that better? The Privatisation Agency is, of course, the government's body, but on the one hand, it is one expert body of the Government, which, from one professional economic and economic aspect, should assess both the initiation and the model and the method of monitoring and control and all that. Here it rises to the level of the ministry, or the minister, which, as we see first and foremost in the current government, can be not only for this resort, but for many other resistors a complete layman. A man who has nothing to do with it, who can have the political power and mandate of his political leader, which is also a common practice that ministers do not have to be experts in the area they run, but it is therefore important that there are state bodies that are at an expert level in relation to the subject they are dealing with. That is why we have suggested that Article 9 be not deleted, because only from one professional aspect is the decision on important things to privatise raised to a few excellent political levels. It's devastating, it's bad, and it's brought about by the old law, because the previous authorities acted that way even though it wasn't legal. This has led to problems in privatisation and criminal privatisations and the fact that privatisation stops, precisely because it was done by politicians and not by the agency as a professional body. As for the time when I led the Serbian government, it was a golden age, the Periklov privatisation age in Serbia. Therefore, any remark on the subject is completely pointless, even if it comes from someone who is immeasurably informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11156	Ambassador, I'm taking away the time you've got, twenty-five seconds longer. The word has Sonja Vlahovic, after the amendment first.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11157	Thank you. President-in-Office, in Article 4. The draft law is amended by Article 9. The law on the Privatisation Agency, which detailed the business of implementing privatisation. I would have previously read part of the reasoning submitted by colleagues Pavicevic and Zivkovic. This is part of the sentence in which it is said - we believe that unnecessary and potentially harmful enlargement of the Agency's jurisdiction, and this privatisation law stipulates that the Agency no longer has the discretion to determine the model and the method of privatisation, but is only a proposer, and the decision on it is made by the competent ministry. So, according to this Agency, it proposes the Minister of Methods and the Privatisation Model, a public call to collect letters on the interest of potential customers and a proposal to launch bankruptcy proceedings. Of course I won't support this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11158	Thank you. He has his word, according to the amendment, Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11159	I think the last sentence of the promoter is the essence of why the SNS parliamentary group thinks it should not be accepted. He says there are countless problems in the privatisation process dating from 1990 to today, where there is no Serbian public view of the matter as more corrupt than the privatisation process. That's the point. The government is proposing these changes, which you think are not adequate, in Article 9, in fact, saying it wants this privatisation process, which we all agree is undeniably bad, remove, or partially remove from the Privatisation Agency. The privatisation agency still has a discretionary right to propose. Essentially, it could be said that she even chooses the method and model, but you have a mechanism of control at the Ministry and that what the Agency proposes can be accepted, or not necessary. I think this is just another control mechanism. At that session, if you remember, when we discussed the Law on Privatisation, we kind of lagged about this, and it seemed to me that we agreed that the essence of both this member and the Law on Privatisation is in the broadly defined methods and models of the privatisation process. We have found that these models and methods are so broad, precisely because the situation in Serbian companies that should be privatised is so difficult and so specific that for each of these individual companies you have to, and in order to preserve the little capital that remains, if it is not negative, to preserve what few jobs are left, not to be lost irrevocably, or to not endanger the existence of dozens of families, define the widest possible model for privatisation and privatisation methods. If this was then done by the Privatisation Act, then it is perfectly normal for the Privatisation Agency to choose one of the conditions and models and the method most appropriate to this particular enterprise, and there is no dilemma and any doubt that the Ministry of Economy will have full agreement with the good intentions that encourage the selection of methods and models from the Privatisation Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11160	Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric submitted the 4th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11161	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privatisation Agency, in Article 4, which amends Article 9(1), after the words "privitation method" have been sealed and said: "as well as the measures for preparing and discharging the obligations of the Privatisation Entity" are deleted. After point 1), a new point 2) is added, which reads as follows: "proposes the measures necessary for the successful implementation of the privatisation procedure against the privatisation entity". I'll give you an explanation for this proposal right away. Therefore, the term “determination of obligations” is a formulation which is unclear and formally-legally incorrect in view of the fact that it is a legal text. This formulation, we also heard on the Committee on Economy, was quite unfortunately taken over by the Privatisation Act, and we also pointed to the need to define this need more precisely. This amendment also proposes that the present point 2) becomes point 3), and so far point 3) becomes point 4 is amended and reads as follows: "it collects and processes data on potential purchasers of capital and property of the privatisation entity which have shown interest in participating in the privatisation process". The proposed formulation of point 3 becomes point 4 is necessary because it is more precise, especially given the situation of broken privatisations and the dilemma whether those who have already participated in privatisations and with which contracts have been terminated due to non-execution of contractual obligations, investments, purchase price, social programmes, alienation of property and the like, which is the Law on privatisation and envisaged, cannot take part again. I think this proposal can contribute to a much more efficient and responsible work of the Privatisation Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11162	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11163	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, we discussed this amendment yesterday on the Committee and Minister Sertic was present on the Committee. What was interesting was that it was about to need a partial solution to this amendment and the minister was ready to accept it, which is that, in this Article, paragraph 4 of the 9th indent 3 only the part relating to - collect and process data on the number of potential customers, the subject of privatisation. It was the minister with his associates who was ready to accept it and asked that such a solution, i.e. an amendment with a correction, be proposed today, to which Minister Vujovic would accept such a solution today. All the rest of it, simply in the conversation with the co-workers, they were not ready to accept it, and I pray to my colleague Ciric, if he thinks he can be accepted in this form with the correction, to propose it, so Minister Vujovic would accept it on behalf of Minister Sertic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11164	Thank you. You can get the amendment. There's no replica. She made her point, so you can talk to the group time after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11165	That's exactly what I wanted. I wanted to say that it's very important to accept the first position, but it's probably an explanation that it's necessary to align it with the terms of the Privatisation Act. It would also be important to think about this, accept and essentially work on amending the Privatisation Act and this law that we adopted and will be adopted on the Privatisation Agency. So, I accept this proposal. It is extremely important for the DS Parliament Club to amend this law in this way, especially from this corner and respect for the Privatisation Act, in these cases where the entities that used this possibility of privatisation did not respect this law. I think it's very important to adopt this particular point 4, if we understand each other correctly. So we accept a proposal like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11166	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11167	With this supplement, we agree, to accept this change in the part currently listed here under number 4, but the number will be adequately adjusted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11168	For the record, please, Minister, you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11169	We accept the amendment, with the numbering adjusting. I'll do it again. What is currently stated under point 4, by adapting the numbering to be point 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11170	Thank you. It's on the record. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11171	Thank you very much. One more piece of evidence that this is pure cosmetics and that this is making noise without some great foundation and harmonising with one bad law, and that is why this alignment is bad. The proof of this concerns the amendment of Article 10. In Article 10(3), it states – the inflow of funds based on sales made, in accordance with the sales contract. Here, in the proposal, this is Article 4, which is identical – giving an inflow of funds based on sales made, in accordance with the sales contract. So we're changing point 3 to point 4. The second position is, in the second part of the sentence, the final position of the existing Article 10. — perform other tasks in accordance with the law and the Statute. Now we are getting a revolutionary solution, that this becomes point 7. Instead of point 2 and it is – it also does other jobs in accordance with law and statute. To remind you, the text that reads is changed – it also performs other tasks in accordance with the law and the statute, and a new text is added – it also performs other tasks in accordance with the law and the Statute. The reason for the refusal of this amendment says that no amendment is accepted because there are no sufficiently reasoned reasons, etc. Let's have someone here explain to me, if the minister can, the associates can whisper to him or the MPs of the ruling coalition, what does that mean and what is the legal formulation? How is it defined that some reasons are sufficiently reasoned or not sufficiently reasoned? Where is that limit - 2%, 3%, 10%, 20%, half? That's completely pointless. In a series of explanations of purpose and integrity, we have now received that someone is not sufficiently reasoned. The question is, who can understand enough? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11172	According to the amendment, the word has been issued by the MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11173	Thank you. Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not accept the arguments received either in today's public arguments or in the arguments we received in writing before the beginning of the session, as good enough to respect the proposal to accept the amendment. In this regard, I am talking about the amendment that we are currently dealing with, but also about a whole set of amendments that have been prepared and explained in an identical way, for the simple reason that I am also answering the question of what is sufficient justification – anything other than zero would be enough. So the explanation that we got again is, and we already talked about it at previous sessions, very general character, very essentially, and does not deal with concrete members, does not deal with the specific matter that is written in law. Generally speaking, generically, to this extent to comment on some other law explaining why a member of this law should not remain in the form of how it was formed by the promoter. Generally and generically, it claims that certain policies are being implemented or not implemented, and therefore the matter recorded in a specific member of the law should not be accepted. General and generic to the extent that it is not taken into account whether a declaration sentence which is simply copied from one to the other reasons for the amendment is in line with what is set out in the specific members of this proposed law. An outstanding example represents exactly the example presented by colleague Vlahovic – that we hear one thing in writing, and then in oral reasoning something completely different. Unfortunately, this is an indication of the seriousness to which this business is approached, and to some extent an indication of the interest of the amendment promoters in what is the subject of concrete members in the concrete law. I have to realize that this level of access really does not provide any other option until we focus our attention on those proposals and the solutions offered that offer something concrete as a consequence, something concrete as a new solution, something concrete as a new matter or a new quality, and not, unfortunately, as we have been able to conclude in previous situations of this kind we have encountered in this home, an opportunity to attract attention and earn a little media space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11174	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic, the esteemed guest, I have accepted, so I understand that Mr Vujovic does not want to apologize for his colleague saying one false thing, that our amendments are legally incorrect. All right, you don't want to apologize. I don't understand that, but it's your right. We will no longer invite you to apologize for this. As for article 6 that I am now explaining, he predicts that the amendment of Article 11a will be deleted. the existing Law on the Privatisation Agency. We have offered, I think, a very good explanation why it is necessary to delete this Article 6 which is amended by Article 11a. One part of our argument concerned our assessment that an irresponsible economic policy was being conducted. Here, Mr Markovic, for example, said that he was not in agreement with the content of that part of the argument, and I, within Article 6, here's to show that it is true that an irresponsible economic policy is being conducted and that this article should therefore be deleted. Look, if we're going to discuss budget rebalancing here on Friday, is that one sign, for example, right now, that there was an irresponsible economic policy? Or, gentlemen, all in respect of our amendment to Article 6, if we raise taxes here and yet incomes are lower in the Republic of Serbia's budget, is that a sign that irresponsible economic policy is being conducted, gentlemen? Or who has been able to read this law on amending and supplementing the 2014 Budget Law, all over this amendment, has seen that the rebalancing is forecasting a minus in the budget. Well, yes, what is respected gentlemen, but irresponsible economic policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11176	The word has Alexander Markovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11177	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that this amendment be rejected on Article 6. It's a bill of law. Again we have the same situation that the same text is to delete the article, again the same explanation. I can't help but look at the part that says there's been no stabilisation of the macroeconomic environment. Yes, no stabilisation of the macroeconomic environment has been achieved but that finding would be appropriate if it came from anyone else, not from MPs elected on the list of one party, the party of the former regime, which is precisely the most responsible for the lack of stabilisation of the macroeconomic environment. The party that led to hundreds of thousands of people who were out of a job. The party that destroyed hundreds and hundreds of companies, and we are trying to fix at least what can be fixed by this bill. We're trying to establish and achieve this full stabilisation of the macroeconomic environment, and we're going to succeed. Don't worry, we'll make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11178	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11179	In the first answer, I said I was sorry and I don't know exactly why, because I didn't have the text of Minister Sertic's statement. I want to explain now. I apologize if there's been a misunderstanding. Minister Sertic's comment should not be seen in any way as contrary to what the Constitutional Affairs and Legislator Committee said in its report. Therefore, please accept my apologies for this misunderstanding. I find that all the proposed changes are members, that I don't answer for a word anymore, Art. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 according to the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. So, I'm sorry. So the comment does not refer to the constitutional correctness of these proposals. Thank you very much. As for the commentary on the budget rebalance proposal, we'll have a chance on Friday and hopefully after that on Sunday, we'll talk. I'll have the answers, and we'll be able to discuss it in an argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11180	According to the amendment, the word is Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11181	When the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency, it actually wanted to do several things in Article 11a, which the amendment refers to. She wanted the state property, which had previously been the subject of privatisation, to be transferred to public capital that was expressed by shares and shares, now depends, on everyone, in principle, the owner of that capital and there is nothing changing. So it's a technical matter. Instead of state property, it's now about public property. What is important, the funds realised in the privatisation process will no longer go directly into the Republic of Serbia's budget, but will go to the users, the owners of capital. This is an important change, which certainly points to a different way of thinking in the functioning of the Privatisation Agency and a different way of functioning of the ministry, because now, in particular, the income that remains in the privatisation process will go to the user rather than to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Real costs remain with the Privatisation Agency, which is the result of the privatisation process, which the Agency has. They're taxed here. To remind you that the amount of these revenues, or commission, are regulated by the ministry, so the Agency itself cannot determine that height. What I think is terribly positive, which is what the government does when it says the Agency is charging dividends based on the actions it has at its disposal. More is denied the Agency's right to achieve a dividend that was probably not large, it was small, but given that in Article 5 we had assets that functioned, which mean legislation, in obtaining funds for the functioning of the Privatisation Agency, it is quite clear that the collection of funds based on dividends that were certainly not large, was not significant, should be removed from Article 11a. The Privatization Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11182	According to the amendment, Goran Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable presidents, ministers, amendments and additions to the Law on the Privatisation Agency product is a need to adapt legislation to the practical situation on the ground. Certain institutes are replaced by other names and are concerned with technical changes that need to raise efficiency in the work of the Privatisation Agency itself, and the end line to ensure transparency of the privatisation process, all with the aim of carrying out the process and the business, the transformation of social capital, concluded on 31 December 2015. Given that I am the president of the resignation municipality, who resigned, given that I took office two weeks ago as a member of the People's Parliament, I would like, in short, to present certain experiences, given that I was dealing with bankruptcy, bankruptcy, bankruptcy management, insolvency relations with bankruptcy judges and in an extreme instance where the Privatisation Agency has appointed bankruptcy managers, where we have achieved certain results and to point to certain difficulties, since most of my fellow Members of the People's Parliaments fully agree to amend certain members, where certain members are deleted, would only produce confusion and additional complications in the application of the Law on the Privatisation Agency. Through the prism of local self-government, the municipality of Vladicin Han, we can make a screening of our society and economy, the Serbian state in general, since it is a local self-government that was a symbol of economic development and economic prosperity in the former Yugoslavia in the 1980s and 1990s. Today, the situation is reversed and the economy of these local self-governments, as well as the economy of the Serbian state on its knees, for the reasons that economic developmentists today are in bankruptcy proceedings, where they dispute over legal and property disputes. I'll just count companies, type AD “FOPA”, that used to employ 1,100 workers, and today there are no employees in that factory, and it's a factory that produced a finished product of fluting and wheat, cardboard and paper from raw materials. AD “Slog”, which employs 850 workers, and this is a furniture factory which also had a round process of production from wood to final product, i.e. furniture. "HANPLAST", which employs about 200 workers, the Cerada factory and the tarp screen. AD “South Morava” about 200 workers, a power line factory, today there are no employed workers. The mechanism, which had its own construction operation, carried out major projects on jobs in the former Yugoslavia and in the Middle East countries, today there are not a single employee, and they have about 300 workers in their own time. "Betonerka", produced from concrete and concrete gallantries, about 150 workers, and no worker has been employed today. The “Balkan Brick” factory of bricks and products for the construction industry about 250 workers, and today no workers work in the factory due to bankruptcy. Delishes brand Hana, "Hani" juices, dairy, concentrate, only for "Nectar" which has employed about 100 workers in the concentration and we have succeeded with the Bulgarian investor to start the Milkar for the last two years, which employs 40 workers, which can employ another 40 in case we can secure exports to the European market. With hard work from all the companies...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11184	Can I ask you to speak only of the amendment, my colleagues suggest you return to the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11185	I will try, given that all of this applies to the Privatisation Agency, I would like to send a final message, that the hard work of the local self-government that is so devastated, we have managed to prepare three companies for sale "Hanplast", "South Morava", which can be found in the offer of the Ministry of Industry and "Storm", which needs a memorandum with Ginsi and with the ministry to sign in the government on 29 October. On this occasion, I would like to thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia who strongly supported this project and to express hope that we will have enough patience, energy, enough nerve to bring this job to an end where we should employ a lot of workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11186	Thank you. I'm asking you again to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11187	Of course. A key problem and a job that's in charge of the Agency, and I'd use the time of the parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11188	I know you only use MPs' time all the time, and that's clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11189	My message would be...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11190	But it can't spread the subject, because now we have a debate on amendments, I insist on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11191	All right. The key problem in privatisation is resolving legal and property relations and ownership structures in the companies themselves, so that only the company could be offered in sales. We've had cases where a particular factory is, for example, a mechanism directly under the jurisdiction of the Privatisation Agency is located on land where they own a three-level level. One part is the property of the municipality, and the other half is the property of the state, and one part is the property of the Ministry of Education, and without clearing the relations in the ownership structure, this company cannot be offered in sales, given that the facilities and halls that are built on it do not have an idea project, do not agree on an idea project, do not agree on the main project, do not have a building permit and ultimately do not have a license and as such cannot be offered for sale by the Privatisation Agency. I don't think the privatisation agency can do this job alone. The job is too big and the task ahead of it, without the co-operation of local self-government, without the co-operation of AP, without the co-operation of resolution ministries that companies are primarily preparing for sale, in the second order that they are looking for potential investors to launch the process of work and production in these plants and businesses and, of course, in the third line are subsidies by the state that they need to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11192	I thank the MP, I've been tolerant enough, and we've heard problems. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11193	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, in the light of the motions of this amendment, who says that it is necessary to delete practically the whole work concerning part of the Agency by defining ownership, it is said that irresponsible economic policy is one of the reasons why such amendments are submitted. I have to remind myself that we had the Labour Act, the Privatisation Act, the Bankruption Act, not so long ago, where we're practically on our way to solve the biggest problem of our budget by discharging, or by giving 750m euros each year. What is important to say is that this Article 6, which has practically defined that since the sale of shares, the Agency is selling public capital that is shown in shares or shares and what concerns both the Development Fund and what concerns disability insurance and that property that needs to be transformed must at some point simply be defined and removed from financing the budget, or from all citizens of Serbia. The only way to get rid of it is by selling capital. The biggest problem is that the capital of all the enterprises in the restructuring and the companies that are hit by this law, these are the social enterprises of many who have not even been in the privatisation process, that they simply have negative capital. It is very difficult today to sell companies that have huge debts, which have employees with huge unmistakable obligations, and therefore this is the only way to establish the work of the Agency by which it will decidently work according to certain models, methods and measures, which will be defined by the Ministry and implemented by the Agency. So far, that wasn't the case. In all the legal solutions, the Agency was quite independent and acted in some way like a small public enterprise, like some agency that actually has state property and has the right to negotiate with it as it pleases. By 2012, we had different cases to hear, and most often it was a source of corrupt activities, which was proven. The fight against corruption, which was practically launched in 2012, has shown that the lack of interest of investors and all those loans that were raised by then, with 232 credit lines according to the official report of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, shows that it is indeed a responsible policy of both the Serbian Progressive Party and Prime Minister Vukic since 2012, as the first vice president, and today as prime minister, only five months on the road to implementing economic reforms in full capacity that will make everyone think about how the law says and commands, that no one can be outside the law, that no one can behave extremely irresponsiblely. When we talk about the capital of the company and when we talk about this negative and the costs and debts at all, then we are completely open to saying what the result of the past 14 years, 12 years, to do a cross-section and to say how practically economic indicators are heading towards the need for economic reforms, and how much we are on the road to helping ourselves develop fully in a modern society that is heading towards the EU. I'll tell you that 2.5% of economic growth was recorded in 2012, i.e. in 2013, which is simply much more than what was hidden somewhere in earlier years through certain bank guarantees, through certain loans, when practically the state didn't even know what capital it had and how much money it gives from the company's restructuring budget and the companies that are in bankruptcy, which are still of social character. So, this article simply defines a full-time job in the details of the Privatisation Agency, how to solve both in legal and economic terms its assets in order to end the privatisation business, which is what we have committed ourselves as Serbia and all the documents we have signed and the declarations together with the EU, that we will complete this privatisation process, and that is our simple task and path that we cannot give up. So every suggestion in order to erase these activities tells us that we are being prevented in this business. Therefore, such initiatives should be ignored because they do not contribute practically to the creation of a better society. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11194	Thank you. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11195	First of all, thank the Minister for his understanding, his apologies and complete satisfaction has been done, and of course it wasn't your fault. It was your colleague's fault. This amendment amends Article 11b, in a revolutionary way that will certainly bring great benefits to Serbia and privatisation and probably and beyond regional and Vaseljevski, because in the new text they are fully copied in the position of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, where some small changes are seen in Article 2, i.e. add points 7 and 8, and all others are completely copied. Not to read all over again, but let's say one small example is that the 7th position of the current text, the provisions of this article apply to the stakes, has now become item 6, the provisions of this article are applied accordingly to the stakes. It's exactly the same. This is another piece of evidence of the government's unequivocal work on privatisation, the Privatisation Act, this law that we have on the agenda today. I listened very carefully to the presentation of colleagues from Vladic's Han, Goran Mladenovic, if I am not mistaken, I fully agree with the assessment of the devastation of the economy, which, of course, is not back in the hall now, it is completely natural, not the MPs have to sit here all day. I fully agree with the assessment of the economy of Vladic's Han and the environment, only with one -- but that happened, first of all, during the 1990s, when the current Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic, Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic and National Bank Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic played an active role in the work of the then government. Ask them what happened in the '90s.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11196	Thank you. Two minutes and three seconds. Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Replica. I will give according to the amendment, as the Serbian Progressive Party is not mentioned, but an individual person. By amendment, you can speak. You're wasting the time of the parliamentary group, as much as you have. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. (Dragan Sutanovac, from the post: Serbian Radical Party. No, I know exactly what I said. Ambassador, I'm sorry. We'll give you your time. We can allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, I personally believe that I have the right to reply because in a negative context the Prime Minister, who you know is both this Serbia and the president of Serbia's advanced rank, is mentioned, but it doesn't matter...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11198	Okay, then two minutes of replica. I'm getting right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11199	Thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11200	I have to ask you now to define yourself. Do you want the replica you first asked for, or the amendment, just to run the session?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11201	I'll speak for the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11202	You mean two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11203	I'll speak for the line. Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, in his irresistible need to throw as many stones as possible at the current government, while also wishing to portray himself as a god-given day from Serbia's savior, as the most brilliant Serbian statesman this country has ever had. Right now, he's brought out an incredible lie. So, if I understood him well about the southern Serbian devastion, Alexander Vukic was responsible, because he was the Minister of Information in the Government of the Republic of Serbia from 1998 to 2000, including during the period when the Republic of Serbia was exposed to aggression and bombing by the NATO Pact. I don't understand why Tomislav Nikolic is responsible, and Jorvanka Tabakovic is probably responsible because she was Minister for Economic Transformation and that is one matrix the former regime has been using for years. So, for all that was not good, and many things, unfortunately, were not good in the 1990s, no one in this country was responsible, but were responsible Vukic, Nikolic, Jorvanka Tabaković and I don't know who, while Zoran Zivkovic forgets that they were in the Federal Government at the beginning of the 1990s, and the people of the Democratic Party were sitting. If they weren't responsible for something in the early 1990s, when it was hyperinflation in Serbia, when you couldn't write zeroes on bills anymore, etc. You, Mr. Zivkovic, seem to have forgotten that time of the early 1990s, when the Democratic Party personnel sat in the federal government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11204	Thank you. You've caused a replica now. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11205	Thanks for the line. Let's start the other way around. It is true that Miodrag Perisic was the secretary of information in the government of Ante Markovic or Milan Panic, I no longer remember, but definitely in either case, hyperinflation was not active at the time, nor was Serbia involved in wars that she did not waged, and she lost them neatly in the worst possible way. I said very precisely, forgetting that Aleksandar Vukic and the president of the Serbian Progressive Party, that the people of Vukic, Nikolic and Tabakovica played a minor but active role in the government. So I didn't charge them with it. The Serbian economy in general, including an example from Vlad's Han, took place in a situation where this abnormal government, an unnatural, treasonous, however you will, led Serbia to a country that was an example of half of Europe as part of Yugoslavia, become a bad example for the whole world -- it has led to the wars it has lost, the crazy policy that has led us to where we are now. At that time, most of the economy and economy in this country collapsed because from the time of the 1990s, the Soviet Union, the rest of China, the Unclassified, the SFRY... In 10 years, the world has changed, and our economy has gone one step back instead of 100 steps forward, like the rest of the world's economy. You can ask that Minister, he knows it much better than I do. Therefore, there is no reason for you to answer and defend the ones I mentioned. They're aware of their stake in this disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11206	Thank you, MP. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. I'd like to ask you to go back to law school.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, I knew that Mr. Zoran Zivkovic was a political genius, but that's just as much, here, now I've had a chance to see for myself. Mr. Zivkovic, you're...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11208	You must not speak directly to an MP, you know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11209	Madam President, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic is quite older than me, and I'm surprised that he confused the pots, the years, the dates, the governments, who performed what function, etc. First, when a member of the federal government does not have the post of secretary, he is the minister in the government and that is the federal minister. Secondly, Perisic, but not only Perisic, there were more people from the Democratic Party of Radulovic, Djukic, there were others, therefore, in the early 1990s, 1992, 1993, it was a time of hyperinflation in Serbia. Hyperinflation was neither in 1998 nor in 1999 nor in 2000. There were other problems -- political, economic, problems in Kosovo in Metohija, NATO intervention. The villa was everything, but there was no hyperinflation. Shule, we'll buy a TV. Take it easy, let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11210	Please, MP, I'm going to have to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11211	In the early 1990s, the Democratic Party had not a minor but a significant role in Serbia's devastion, at a time when a complete collapse of the Serbian economy began and with this collapse had nothing to do with Alexander Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic, or Jorgovanka Tabakovic, however much Zoran Zivkovic hates them, however much he wished them evil or anything like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11212	Thank you, MP. It's the government of Milan Panic. I remember so much. It's just for the public, because he can't keep track of what he's saying anymore. I'll delete the list, so call anyone who wants a word again. You can't all replica. National MP Vladimir Djukanovic does not have the right to reply. National MP Goran Mladenovic does not have the right to reply. National MP Dragan Sutanovac has the right to reply, as the previous speaker spoke about the Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11213	It is not a problem that the previous speaker spoke about the Democratic Party, the problem is that the previous speaker spoke falsely. So, the Democratic Party did have in the federal government of Mr Perisic as Minister of Information, it is the government of Milan Panic, the last government to try to save Serbia from those disasters that occurred in 1999, 1998 and 1997, which is why I see myself as representatives of the Serbian Radical Party of Pride. On the other hand, Radulovic and Djukic were said to have been in the government. They were not in the government as the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party has never been to the government with Milosevic. The fact is that it was the time when the Democratic Party was persecuted and was precisely the strongest opposition to such a government, such as the fact that inflation stopped thanks to Mr Avramovic, but it still has nothing to do with the Serbian Radical Party. The legacy of counterpart Zivkovic is exactly like that because in the government of Mirko Marjanovic, half of the ministers were from the Serbian Radical Party and, unfortunately, the economy ministry was run by today's governor. The destruction of the Serbian economy was created at that very time. I am sure that Minister Vujovic also knows if he would like to intervene in this dialogue, he could explain to the public how much the devastation of the 1990s, when, among other things, the Serbian Radical Party was a feather of the government, led to the fact that today's economy is still in the problem it is in, in which you explain that we have to endure victims and pensioners and members of the military, police and those who freed Serbia on 20 October 1944. They must bear sacrifices and tell us why we tolerate victims if we had an adequate economy and adequate country leadership by the Serbian Radical Party in the 1990s? There are no representatives of the Serbian Radical Party here...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11214	We're not having a discussion about the outside parties. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency is on the agenda. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Replica. I'm thinking about what to do, whether we should continue this interesting debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11215	If there is a representative of the Serbian Radical Party, let them report for replication, and if not, I have not mentioned one word...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11216	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11217	Based on what?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11218	Think about the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to you for the sake of historical truth. Since I cannot speak to Mr. Sutanovac, I am speaking to you, Madam President. So, in 1994, as much as my memory serves, a political agreement was signed between Dr Zoran Djindjic, Dr Vojislav Seselj and Dr Vojislav Kostunica. On the front page of then, if I am not mistaken, the weekly list “Views” photos of Djindjic, Seselj and Kostunica and below reads “The opposition has united”. It is possible that the Democratic Party, which had many aggregate states, was created as a civil party, so they were few nationalists, and now we hear that they were supposed to be Social Democrats and to advocate the rights of the working class and to get up when it was played by Internacional and so on, that they forgot in 1994, but just because they forgot doesn't mean it didn't happen. Now that transfer to Vukic, Nikolic, Jorgovanki Tabakovic, me, with the illusions that I am a representative of the SRS here, it seems kind of cute, but it's not good for the DS itself. There's one more thing I need to point out that Mr. Sutanovac has, I think, forgotten. In my history and that, if I'm not mistaken in 1992, I'm a man of my age, too, so I started to forget that year, but it seems to me that she was in 1992.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11220	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11221	Here, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11222	He can't. It's two minutes and 10 seconds. Let the president run the session. Thank you. I'm setting a five-minute break in accordance with Article 112 because I can't convince you that we're not talking about the history of our countries from SFRY to today. We continue to work on the amendments. Forget your intentions to talk about history. [[After a break.]] We agreed on further work, but also that we had a regular break. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic, the respected guest from the ministry, I agree that it is very important that we now have a serious discussion on the content of all 17 of our amendments to this bill. I agree here and with Mr. Orlic of the SNS who, as I understand it, has declared that our arguments for all amendments, including this to Article 8, are essential. So, we have fundamental reasons, and I'd like to draw your attention to them right now. Therefore, the basic reason for the adoption of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privatisation Agency concerns harmonisation with the content of the new Law on Privatisation, and the basic reasons for the adoption of the new Law on Privatisation, when we discussed them here, were that we had a responsible economic policy and that we had macroeconomic stability. We just found out during this debate here, reminding us that Friday we're going to have to discuss budget rebalancing, that we have an irresponsible economic policy. This means this to me – that it was not a valid reason for the adoption of the Privatisation Act. If that wasn't a valid reason, then we don't have to comply with this bill with one law that shouldn't have even been passed. Dear gentlemen, I think logic is very clear. That's where I understood Mr. Orlic, but not Mr. Markovic, Mladenovic and Kovacevic, who clearly, clear, precise assessments of what economic policy leads to are not respected and contrary to what some sort of thing is, I mean sound logic, they still won't accept our amendment to Article 8.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11225	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11226	The Honorable Chairman, we just had an eclectic example of someone submitting an amendment, and then it doesn't explain the amendment at all. He talks about everything and everything, but he's least interested in the amendment. Otherwise, for the sake of the public, they suggested eradicating amendments allowing a simple man who may have been a worker in a company to sell actions outside the securities market. I think that's even more favourable to him. But someone doesn't seem to like it. Someone would love to be unconscious if we had a company in restructuring or if we had the inability to privatise a failed company, because it would suit them, given that they hired party personnel to suck up money from Serbian citizens. I just wanted to point that out. The amendment is completely beyond logic, but let the citizens know what is proposed here. Obviously, it is much more important for someone across the street to discuss who turned the ox at the Palace in 1993.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11227	By amendment, please. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I need to intervene. Why? This whole ox thing didn't apply to you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I have to explain. You can't explain it. I gave my word to the MP. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Then according to the Rules of Procedure.) He can, but he's become an MP. You're a little late. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I did not. Ask the deputy secretary, he saw it. He wasn't looking your way. The word was received by MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11228	Will you give me back this time?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11229	Time can't go back like this, but we'll count 30 seconds more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11230	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest we reject this amendment to the proposed Law on the Privatisation Agency. We have the same situation again – Article 8 is deleted. Again, the same argument, again, that this will not lead to better conditions for economic development, that it will not lead to the preservation of social stability through the creation of new or preservation of existing jobs etc. Madam Chairman, this very law, as an iPrivatisation Act, creates conditions for the preservation and improvement of economic development and the preservation of social stability. This law will create a chance and better conditions for opening new jobs and preserving existing jobs. This is exactly what is called a responsible economic policy, and what you are contesting, and for which we receive recognitions from all relevant institutions, from all relevant factors and from international organisations and institutions, but what is most important, from the citizens of Serbia. That's why I suggest we reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11231	Thank you. According to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the Assembly to pass laws and other acts in the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11232	Once again, we have one member who, according to the motionor, will introduce macroeconomic stability, remove all shortcomings in the privatisation process, end the privatisation process by the end of next year and practically create a country's paradise in Serbia. The revolutionary, essential thing in this amendment is that the words "share" are deleted in article 11g item 1 point 2). It's not just the amendments with -- it's deleted, but here's when the government proposes, and it's erasing something. A completely pointless change, which in no way contributes to any strengthening of monetary, economic, any stability, strengthening the economy, interest of foreign investors, anything that would have anything to do with a privatisation process that, I agree, began long ago. It was supposed to be completed by the end of 2004, under the original law, and unfortunately it is still the day, and it is not the fault of the current government. It's the fault of the previous government. That should be said, hand to heart, but the problem is that the current government does nothing to stop this agony in one appropriate way, which is appropriate in the 21st century and the state of our economy. Five hundred and a few companies, we asked the last time and the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, if he could ever come to parliament, and anyone else to tell us which percentage of those 500 and some of the companies could really be privatized, and what would be the victim of bankruptcy? Of course, the majority will be the victim of bankruptcy and this is just the delay of agony and the spending of huge money from the budget, which increases the budget gap for this year through rebalancing, which will be on the agenda tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11233	Thank you, you'll have your chance. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11234	Here, you know how, the Honorable Chairman, I would really ask you, explaining this amendment now, the predecessor has absolutely not touched the amendment. Yes, it is true, one word of the stake is deleted, but he was absolutely using the next time to tell us about his political platform that he could otherwise implement all those years when he was prime minister. I would ask you to remind such an MP in the future. I agree, he could explain why, for example, it may be necessary or unnecessary to delete this word, but he used all that time to explain his political vision, and otherwise we have recent data to state that...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11235	Ambassador, you're not talking about the amendment now either.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11236	... Yeah, but I just need something right now...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11237	You see how you're putting me in an awkward situation. Then I'd have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11238	... I agree, by the way, I absolutely support the government and it makes absolutely sense to delete this word. I absolutely support the government and this amendment should certainly be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11239	Thank you very much. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica, nothing has been said. He expressed his position, his MP groups. He understood perfectly. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Development for Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Your system doesn't work at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11240	I don't know, Mr. President, I just thought that the microphone had worked, that the system would no longer block, when, behold, it seems again. So, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Vujovic, the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, I do not think we should rush anywhere in our debate on the amendments to this bill. For example, I will absolutely focus on the content of our amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency. In this case, of course, we propose that Article 10 be deleted, and Article 10 provides that the existing Article 11d is to be changed, and it concerns the launch of the bankruptcy process of privatisation entities under certain circumstances. What is important about our argument for this amendment? First, we, and Mr Vujovic certainly remembers it, voted in favour of the bill on bankruptcy, even here said it was a good bill of law, but then we return to our explanation and explanation of the government for why it refused the amendment. The government says - this amendment is not well explained enough, and then certain MPs report, who obviously or did not read the argument, or have not read this bill, because in reason we are finely stating that those reasons why the Government wanted to adopt the Law on Privatisation, which is now bound by this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privatisation Agency, that these reasons are not valid, because we have conditions that are contrary to what the Government has written. The government wrote – responsible economic policy, and our debate Friday on rebalancing is a clear testimony that there is no responsible economic policy, nor macroeconomic stability, gentlemen. Please respect this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11241	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11242	Thank you, Madam President. Article 106 has been injured. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Mr Pavicevic mentioned on several occasions today that the RS government is leading, he said, an irresponsible economic policy, and evidence of this is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014. We'll talk about that tomorrow. Rebalance is not the theme of today's session. Please warn Mr Pavicevic to talk about the agenda point. I understand that he has the need to attack the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and that is politically legitimate, but it should not be done in this way, to violate the Rules of Procedure. So, the topic of rebalancing is tomorrow's session, the new session of the National Assembly of the RS. Tomorrow, I assume, among other things, the RS Prime Minister, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, will be here, so that Mr Pavicevic, as well as other MPs of the former regime, will explain very closely why the RS government had to resort to such strict fiscal consolidation. Because the former regimes have completely ruined Serbia economically and if it had not been for these measures, Serbia, as a state, in economic terms, would no longer be, but we will discuss it more tomorrow, so please direct Mr Pavicevic, as Mrs Gordana Comic once said, to read Article 106. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11243	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure because I'd have to react in 200 cases, because you're all jumping out of the subject, more or less, I can't strictly ask for sentences to be spoken. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Now I'm gonna take a break. It can't be like that. You abuse all the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You know that the breach of the Rules of Procedure follows immediately as it is done, not as long as the president answers. So you're wrong. The MPs have no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately. As for the running of Gordana Komic's session, I wasn't an MP, so I can't compare. I'm sorry, in that sense. You put us all in the same basket. I don't have any baskets. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I demand the right to the word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, by asking you to be precise.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11244	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Minister Vujovic, the Honored Guest, I believe that a member of 107 has just been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In view of the article’s point of view, the speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Here, precisely to tell you that in the case of Mr Martinovic's speech, the dignity of the National Assembly is not respected, and you have not intervened. Before Mr Martinovic, I explained one of our amendments to a member of the Privatisation Agency's bill. I tried, respected presidents of the National Assembly, respecting what is the justification of our amendment to this bill and to this member, binding the Privatisation Act because the minister, or ministry, connected the adoption of this bill with the Law on Privatisation. I was just talking about what were the reasons why we felt it was necessary to adopt this and all the other 16 amendments. Your Honor, in my two minutes, I was absolutely talking about our amendment. Mr Martinovic suggested that you should have warned me because I am not talking about the amendment, and it was your duty to warn Mr Martinovic that in his performances he must respect the dignity of the National Assembly, to listen to what other MPs say that this kind of mistake would not happen to him, that he absolutely misread something I did. Please don't put me in a group of MPs who abuse the Rules of Procedure. I stuck to the agenda and talked about our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11245	Thank you. I'm fixing an hour's break for lunch. The government's ministers and representatives were asked to take a break because they were here for the defense of the law. The break shall be regular in accordance with Article 87(1). Serbian citizens want to hear what's on the agenda today, not listen to the injuries of the Rules of Procedures that have been completely abused. Let it get into the record. We continue to work exactly in a second on the amendments, not on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasnaović Korać, Branka Karavidic and Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Prof. Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11247	Of course, it's one of those amendments we've already talked about. It is replaced by Article 11j, where the practical order of words is changed in the current text with some slight changes. I will no longer warn that it is the great story of reform laws that will do wonders in the Serbian economy and privatisation. The argument that this is a alignment with the amended Privatisation Act can be an argument to the promoter, but not to us, because we have assessed the Privatisation Act negatively, and therefore, consistently, according to this law, we have the same attitude, that is, we are looking for its non-implementation, except for Article 18, which we will come to, which we have not submitted the amendment to because it only makes sense and it deals with this legal-technical-lexic change, which is that the name of the Ministry of Economy and Business is changed to the current name of the Ministry. Once again, I would like to ask, say, to explain to me the explanation of what it means, but not by the MPs, but by the minister, that there are no sufficiently reasoned reasons? That's an explanation for the rejection of the amendment. It says - the amendment is not accepted because there are no sufficiently reasoned reasons. What is the measure of sufficientness where from insufficient to sufficient, and what is the methodology of grading when the reasons are sufficient, and when they are insufficient, as is claimed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11248	On Article 12 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Prof. Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's Messenger, Professor. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Minister Vujovic, the Honored Guests of the Ministry, also submitted the amendment to Article 12. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency. We suggested that this text be in the proposal for a member at 12. which reads in Article 11e, the word “immovableity” is replaced by “Immobilities” and the word “movable” is deleted. We believe that this member should be deleted and that the contents of this member remain as provided for by the current Privatisation Agency Act. Of course, I also read the government's explanation for why it is not possible to accept our amendment. It was announced here in the government's explanation that we did not give a good enough explanation. It's also very important for me to hear what that means that the explanation isn't good enough. Plus here it is said, during this debate, so I also understand in relation to this amendment to this article of the bill that our amendment approach to this bill is not good, but we need to apply someone else. We, honored gentlemen, respected ministers, have in some cases applied some other approach. For example, we have proposed here and that a whole new law be passed, for example. amending the Law on Higher Education, which provides for the introduction of principles of academic integrity. It's not accepted here either. So whatever approach you can apply here, amendment, in the case of this bill, for example. Article 12, you send a new bill of amendments and additions to some law, and neither can it. It actually means there's no desire here for us to come up with the best laws in our country in one dialogue. I hope that changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11250	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Prof. Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11251	Thank you very much. The essence of this amendment, i.e. the amendment to the law, is that in Article 12 paragraph 3 the words "four years" are changed in the words "five years". We don't think this numerical change will bring any new momentum, momentum, energy in the privatisation process. Again, there is not enough explanation why the change of four to five years is so important and so important in this process. There are examples where, when determining the mandate of a government's longer-than-government official, it is explained that this gives some certainty that it is not a mandate that follows only the political will of a government, but continues to be extended beyond the mandate of a government. Practically, it is once again a hypocritical measure because every new government can, of course, interrupt the mandate of any government-chosen authority and bring it down to half a year, a year, or whatever it takes. So it would be nice to hear the explanation for this change. If it is adequate, convincing, we are prepared to withdraw this amendment, but I'm afraid we will not get arguments sufficiently reasoned to accept this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11252	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Minister Vujovic, the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, we have also submitted the amendment to Article 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency. This Article 14 amends Article 13 of the existing Law on the Privatisation Agency and Article 2(7) thereof. Then a new point is added after point 8, and then attitude 3 is changed, and then it is properly said that Minister Sertic and the people who are his associates consider it necessary. We have suggested that this Article 14 be deleted and since the Government has told us that there are no sufficiently reasoned reasons, then I have to try again here to show how our reasons are, I mean well explained and clear. Two arguments we have offered crucially to accept this amendment. One argument concerns the basic reason for which the Privatisation Agency Act was related to the Privatisation Act, which claimed that responsible economic policy was being conducted in Serbia. We think it doesn't exist. We have an irresponsible economic policy. The second argument we offer here brings us back to harmonising the provisions of this bill with the already existing Privatisation Act, where we are said to have secured macroeconomic stability here. We are merely citing tomorrow's debate, or the announcement of tomorrow's debate as an example of our lack of macroeconomic stability. The minister has decided to continue to defend himself with silence, I see now that they have decided to remain silent and MPs of the advanced party.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11254	Please, MP, don't analyze the people around you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11255	All right, I understand silence as approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11256	Thank you. On the 15th amendment in the same text, MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ćirić together and MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11257	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Pavicevic's answer. This silence of the guilty is very clear when you look at the essence of Article 15, which is the essence of these amendments to the Law on the Privatisation Agency. These amendments introduce two new members who, as a matter of fact, give jurisdiction to the Director of the Agency to quote – educates one or more commissions, so there is still no definition of how many commissions, one or more. And these are the committees to carry out consent tasks in accordance with the law governing privatisation, the law governing the legal position of companies, the law governing bankruptcy and cooperatives. This means that the Director of the Agency forms a commission, in its opinion, along with some conditions that are very feasible, so that they do not represent any example of wisdom and professionalism. So he's building his own commission that absolutely controls everyone alive, which is important in the privatisation process for one subject. In addition, the minister responsible for privatisation operations through the Ministry of Economy in Article 15b. educates the Commission to control the performance of the customer's obligations. Thus, the minister and director of the Privatisation Agency become the main generators of corruption. All that were objections to the implementation of the existing Law on Privatisation, Mixing Politics, Mixing the Director of the Agency, Minister for Privatisation Processes through these two members is legalised. This is the legalization of corruption that has devised the Privatisation Act that was generally good, but by implementing it now becomes an integral part of the law has led to privatization being a disgrace to this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11258	It is the People's MP Marijan Risticevic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11259	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I cannot vote for this amendment for the simple reason why I heard an explanation, which is why the amendment said to delete Article 15. In the first position, the law governing the legal position of companies, the law governing bankruptcy and cooperatives, the director of the agency educates one or more commissions. The Commission referred to in Article 1 shall have five members, one of whom shall be the President of the Commission, in accordance with the law. Article 15 is very clear. If we delete it, I don't know what we're gonna get. I think the amendments are empty and about someone doesn't want to have that commission. They even talked about Article 15b. which is educated by a commission to control the performance of the customer's obligations. It seems that old habits are a miracle, someone else seems to have to defend himself, by silentness. We will have to defend ourselves very well, given that in the earlier privatisations in which he participated and the amendment promoter was very strange privatisations, where the obligations of the buyer were not met, where real criminal gravitation was carried out, at the expense of the employees, at the expense of the citizens of Serbia, where the huge capital passed from the hands of the workers, out of the hands of the citizens, went to the benefit of several tycoons, several friends, some of whom were even directors of certain parties, so they bought for the whole three euros. In doing so, they had an obligation to regulate their debts, not regulated, but the boards of directors of various public companies controlled by the party, whose man was the party's director, forgiven several million, tens of millions in debt, whose companies were burdened and sold for three euros. So, the habit of proposing amendments from 2000 to 2003, the high-ranking official and prime minister, was that without any commission, without any control, the privatisation of the company, where huge social capital was poured out from thousands of companies for symbolic ones, I will say, two sealed little billion euros. In doing so, there were direct sales, sales outside the Privatisation Act for three billion. So, I was already talking about the strange privatisation of the Usce building in New Belgrade, which was very criminal and which was sold to a company that did not participate in the sale of the mentioned building, so someone who allowed, in spite of the federal public defender's warning that as a representative of the federal government's internal affairs, allowed this kind of privatisation, now with an amendment to the words - is being deleted, wants to challenge the Agency's right to elect a commission that would look after the granting of consent, and later even suggests that Article 15b. It also deletes that there is no absolute control regarding compliance with the obligations of a particular economic operator. It is unacceptable for me, as it is unacceptable to say that the minister should defend himself by silence. I think there must be a crime first, and it was committed during the former government, and then it's being prosecuted, then someone is defending themselves by silence, and then someone has to prove how the privatisation of Sartida, the building Usce, Beopetrol, etc. was done. That someone needs to defend themselves. I don't think he'll be able to defend himself with silence. What didn't happen isn't our fault. It's primarily the guilt of the judiciary, the prosecution that unfortunately isn't independent. It is independent of the current government, but it is independent of the former. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11260	Thank you. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic and Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11261	On this amendment, we've had several interventions as a parliamentary group and I'll start from the first. Our idea was to clarify a few of the views in this article, so we put into line 1 which says that the commission has five members of which is one and the president, we put – and who is appointed by the Director of the Agency, so that it would not be unclear who appoints the president. It says here that there are five members of which one president, nowhere stands as he determines himself, whether they themselves or the director of the Agency who appoints them, we put this as an explanation. Then, in conditions that should be met by future members of the commission, we added a few more things, that in addition to what was proposed in point 1. that a member must have a higher education, we predicted - and at least seven years of work experience in the profession. Then, in point 2, it says -- that an expert is in one of the business areas, and we have added -- areas of privatisation, areas of legal position and business of economic persons, areas of bankruptcy, areas of legal position and business of cooperatives, and we have added point 5 that a member of the commission does not own shares or assets of a strategic investor. Since point 4 speaks of the fact that a future member of the commission should not be a shareholder, owner, share or buyer of a privatisation entity, we felt that there should be neither a strategic investor nor that it has anything to do with a strategic investor. It's an absolutely incredible explanation for the rejection of this amendment. So, we have listed several changes and the Government has responded – the amendment is not accepted because it is not intended to be "a criterion of expertise", which is required by a member of the Commission, which could potentially lead to an arbitrary interpretation of that condition. So the criteria of expertise exist in the government's bill. Point 2 says that the expert is in one of the economic areas. We just wanted to narrow down and make sure that this expertise should be in the area of privatisation, the legal position of business companies, bankruptcy, the position of the cooperative. So our amendment precisely defines a term of expertise, and the government says it's not a term of expertise. This is a shame with such an explanation that amendments are being rejected. I ask the Minister before you come here and before such an amendment with such an explanation is adopted by the Government, that someone read them, because I don't know how you can defend this argument now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11262	By amendment Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11263	Thank you, esteemed pareding. This amendment, with all due respect, that someone had good intentions, but it can't be accepted. Especially because of this narrowing-down -- whether someone is professional in an area, so it is said -- the area of privatisation states. Now, a hypothetical one of these consulting houses that drove the state so far can appear by some of them actually being at the Privatisation Agency, and on the other hand they were consultants. Now he says – yes, I've worked on it for many years, I'm a great expert, and he's basically ruined the states with his advice, and there, of course, are famous for these consulting houses, from Ces Mekuna and beyond, and you know them very well. So we really couldn't accept something like this, because by narrowing it down, there's even been some kind of discrimination against certain people who may have just now, they've shown themselves very well in some economic branches, and now you're narrowing them down that it's a very area of privatisation. There can be a big problem. We've seen how our great privatisation experts have ruined the state and a team like this is completely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11264	By amendment, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11265	Thank you, President of the Assembly. I also agree with the previous speaker that this amendment should be rejected. In fact, I find the proposal to choose a person who is an expert in the field of privatisation of the legal position and business of a company or in the field of bankruptcy unnecessary because this sets a limit on the selection of staff who can deny the quality and educational staff to be members of the commission and therefore I propose that this amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11266	Thank you. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law finds that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS. The word is Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11267	Dear fellow MPs, I have submitted two amendments with my colleague Dubravka Filipovski. What I am pleased with, and I see that other fellow Members have also noticed that this member is one of the most important in these amendments to the Law on the Privatisation Agency. What is also important is that an amendment was accepted by the RS government, which concerns what is important, which is that members of the board appointed by the Privatisation Agency, as regards selling companies, must be in a permanent working relationship with the Agency. Why is this important, and why am I glad that Minister Sertic recognized that this is very important? Because of the bad experiences we've had in the past, and these experiences include that the tycoons who bought the companies were setting up their own people at the Privatisation Agency, putting them on a contract at work, and then just being on the commission that sells the company and when they buy that company, these same people cross from the Agency, and today they're employed by these companies that were being sold. That's why I'm glad that at least this way we can make sure that these people who are on board have to be in a permanent working relationship. My second amendment, which I have submitted, concerns, and I must say that I have withdrawn from the Committee on Economic Affairs, but I think it should be for the Members of Parliament to hear about it, which is what this is specifically about. In the amendment, I predicted that the members elected by the Privatisation Agency were neither in the boards nor in the supervisory boards that the companies which sent letters to take over the business entities, so that they were not in the management bodies of the company that are being sold, or those operators, and they were exactly 502, how much left to complete this process. I find this perfectly normal, and I think that this is how the process itself until the privatisation is over would be clear, public, transparent. However, I must say, first of all, at the request of Minister Sertic that a large number of quality personnel found, according to his words and the highest quality of the Privatisation Agency, some of them are from these companies, and by accepting this amendment, it would come to them that they would be able to narrow down the maneuvering space for these people to name this commission. I accepted that argument and therefore I must point out that yesterday I withdrew this amendment on the board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11268	According to the amendment, Ivana Stojiljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11269	Thank you. Dear guests and ministers, the proposed amendment points to the alleged deficiency in the procedure, and I am just suggesting that this law removes this inadequacy. The former regime's solutions so far have created many privatisation problems, so one of them, which I have to mention today, is the company "24. September" from Užica, subject to privatisation in restructuring. That's why I want to tell you ministers that there is really a chance for this company that the long-standing problem can be solved successfully. There is information about the interest of individual investors, potential privatisation customers in restructuring and what I want you to know is that this company has really great potential for all those who want to affirm the production of electricity facilities and plants. Another thing that is very important, is that it is the only company in Serbia that has the opportunity to build safety fences for the road network. Another very important piece of information, that the company's employees have just constructed machines to produce these protective fences. For this reason, I believe that this company should be given a chance and that, equally with other firms in restructuring, it will be found, so to speak conditionally, in the privatisation process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11270	National MPs Marko Djurisic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted the 15th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11271	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, and this amendment has been rejected with an absolutely incredible explanation. In order to be clear, this amendment provided that the Commission for the control of the enforcement of the obligations of the buyer, or of the strategic investor from the completed contracts in the privatisation process, should be in accordance with Article 15a. appoints on a proposal from the Director of the Agency, as the bill provides for the Minister for Business Affairs to do so. The government rejects this amendment with the following explanation: "Amendment is not accepted since it is a Commission that requires the participation of representatives of different ministries – which we did not question at all this amendment – and because of the complexity of the issues which are the subject of decision-making and the need for professional clarification by those persons in whose jurisdiction are issues which are relevant for deciding further procedures regarding the execution of the contract". Something wrong with this sentence, the point is missing. Why was our proposal rejected? What's wrong with our proposal? Our proposal is in line, it seems, with Article 5 of this Act, which defines the Agency's obligations. Among other things, Article 5 states, Article 10, which reads as follows: “Privatisation of obligations, these are the tasks of the privatisation process control, the Agency shall verify compliance with the obligations of the buyer in the contract on the sale of capital or property, the fulfilment of the obligation of the strategic investor in the strategic partnership contract, the compliance of the programme” etc. So, right now, the Agency is in charge of the control business, and we think it's the Agency's director who's supposed to appoint the Commission. All of a sudden, there's a minister showing up here. There's no reason to say no, why it's exactly a minister and not a director of the Agency, but this incoherent sentence that you can't catch by your head or by your tail. I'd like some kind of answer to explain this explanation, because it's completely incomprehensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11272	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11273	Based on consultations with colleagues involved in writing this response, the intention of Article 15b. is that at a higher level than the Agency is appointed to the commission, since it needs to be controlled. That's why it's in the minister's jurisdiction. So that's the level of surveillance here, to control the performance of the customer's obligation. That is why it was given to senior level jurisdiction, the minister responsible for business affairs. It's an explanation, and that's all it was supposed to stand for. I'm sorry, this is some kind of mistake that was made in the text of an explanation. So, the only explanation here is that it was deliberately placed here in the minister's jurisdiction, so that at a higher level and more objectively determined by the control committee. While you were talking, we couldn't react fast enough. We have no problem with the essence of your proposal for Article 15a. which you read a little while ago. We would need to discuss with you what is written about expertise, because the problem is how to apply it in practice. Therefore, if you are willing to consult with members to regulate the text on expertise, to specify how it is determined, we are prepared to accept your amendment to Article 15a. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11274	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11275	President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I can say right at the beginning that this amendment cannot be accepted, for the simple reason that we have done so much damage to this country's previous Privatisation Agency Act that we have nothing left to sell or even to make a restitution. What's this about? All the authorities were with the Privatisation Agency. I'll list some examples that are fresh. I was at the Privatisation Agency, and I suggested that there was a possibility of verifiable and not so sure, but certainly there are some embezzlements in a company in Novi Sad, where a capital agent has not tried in any way to protect a company called the Back Way. So, in the last two or three years, it's put about two million euros away by some analyses and papers. The funds are gone. Where they went, whether in the hands of some people from that company or not, they're gone. I went to the Privatisation Agency and talked to them and asked for a representative of the company's capital that will not be hired or to submit a criminal report, and the Privatisation Agency is practically a capital agent for all other companies and does not represent those companies. Since they were sending control, they didn't find anything, and that's how it is now. Now the time will come to sell the company, and no one will ask for the whereabouts of two million euros. Imagine how many such companies there have broken their contracts with the customers of these companies and become state-owned enterprises, all of which could have been lost by funds or dinars. This amendment cannot be accepted, for a simple reason, because it changes the full concept of changes and additions to the Privatisation Act. The aim of this Government is to change the Privatisation Agency in such a way that these amendments to the Privatisation Agency Act create conditions for regulation and changes to the authority of the Privatisation Agency, in order not to release the Privatisation Agency from being a bankruptcy manager in these companies, but to represent creditors in the privatisation process. In the bankruptcy process, now it's about those assets that I'm talking about to imagine how much there are, 500 and some companies that are for sale and that are in the restitution of about 153 companies. We wouldn't have a single dollar in our budget today, and we'd be at a loss, if we'd done it right. I also blame the Privatisation Agency, as well as the Government and that minister who represented all the shops at the Privatisation Agency. Therefore, in the bankruptcy process, the Privatisation Agency received a stake in the bankruptcy and privatisation process, so that the process would end 153 enterprises in restructuring and privatise 419 enterprises during 2014. That would free up the $750 million budget. Imagine now, and this is predicted, if all this is fulfilled, that in 2015 we will leave 750 million in the budget. This is the concept and purpose of this amendment and the addition of the Privatisation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11276	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11277	Yeah, according to the amendment. The explanation for the refusal of the amendments given by the minister now sounds...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11278	Just a minute. Please government representatives either sit down, or, because it's a bit of an unusual situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11279	It's okay. This is acceptable. We can agree or disagree, but it's too much and it shows that it's two different concepts. As for the suggestion of this previous amendment, to the previous member, the government predicted expertise as a criterion, we just defined it a little bit, so we don't have a problem with that, but I'm afraid that now business, given that our amendment has not been accepted, I don't know how we can further intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11280	Minister, would you like to make a statement, since I see members of your team with the MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11281	Thank you very much. So my proposal was -- the argument is accepted as Article 15b. Thank you. In the case of a proposal for Article 15a. the first proposal referred to in Article 1 is fully acceptable, appointed by the Director of the Agency, a fully accepted amendment. In point 2, it is the amendment that draws attention to the fact that this formulation – that an expert in one of the business areas, by adding the area of privatisation and the areas of legal position and business of companies, the areas of bankruptcy, the areas of legal position and the business of cooperatives – is thus distracted by the fact that there is a lack in the original formulation. I'd like to ask if you can come to a formulation together to submit a special amendment, then it's acceptable perfect.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11282	We can't move on to the next amendment until we get to the bottom of whether you accept it or not. We can't keep working now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11283	Well, I don't know. We just had a situation like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11284	But you accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11285	I accepted, but we haven't responded here since we consulted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11286	Do you accept the amendment? You just have to say it in the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11287	I accept the amendment with the addition to specify point 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11288	It can't be like that. You can accept this amendment whether it's filed or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11289	I accept the amendment that has been submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11290	The Prime Minister accepted the amendment. Thank you. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Branko Karavidic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11291	Our amendment, our parliamentary groups, to this second part of Article 15b. was it first to define who appointed the president of the commission? Since we felt that the entire commission should be appointed by the Director of the Agency, we also predicted that the president of the commission would appoint the director of the agency, and then we are below, in paragraph 4, to say, to define that, as it was here, there were three representatives from the ministries, and three ministries were listed. We only predicted one representative of each ministry that was numbered here. So there won't be three from the three ministries, and then all three from finance, and there won't be anyone from the economy, or the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Affairs. I understand, given that the minister did not accept our previous proposal to appoint the Director of the Agency to this committee, then this explanation where and where it makes sense, which was rejected by this amendment, because he finally says - it is not clear why the Director of the Agency would propose to the Commission, it was related to the previous amendment. We still think that it is better for this commission to be appointed by the director and to remain as proposed by the law, that of the five members, the two are from the Agency's staff, and the three representatives from the ministry. At least now I understand why the amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11292	By amendment, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11293	Thank you, President. Mr. Minister, the control function of the Privatisation Agency is indisputable, but it is mandatory by law enforcement, i.e. by the description of the business it deals with. So every time he does something, he has to know what he's doing and make sure the law is respected. This member of the law aims to establish, as I understand it, additional control of the Agency's work in the area of enforcement of the obligations of the buyer and of the strategic partner, but, by the minister, i.e. the persons he appoints or appoints. If the Agency performs entrusted tasks and its director educates the Commission as a control body. I'm not sure there'd be any real control here. I therefore believe that such a committee should form a minister in order to preserve and preserve its independence in the work of the Agency's leaders and achieve the real purpose of monitoring and controlling the Agency's work. I therefore believe that the proposed amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11294	The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11295	I have to admit, I'm in a little bit of a dilemma right now, because if the spirit of these changes and the addition of this law is precisely not allowing the agency to appoint the director, to be the full master of privatisation, but now we've given it to the minister, there's nothing like this to be accepted and to ask for the director of the agency to do it now. With that in mind, really, I'm not someone who's willing to accept something like this, so before I do, I'm going to set an example for you, and I'm always pointing it out. We have a situation of a consulting house that advised the Privatisation Agency, and they also had their own people who worked there. Now imagine allowing them to be such a direct agency, and it is mastering the entire privatisation. That's why I'm against something like this, and it's a good thing the government turned down this amendment. I'm absolutely in favor of the minister being the only one who can educate the commission. So I would really like to ask you to take this into account and absolutely support, Mr Toskovic, has explained very nicely, that such an amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11296	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11297	I said earlier that I had objections to the Privatisation Agency from its beginning to today, given that the ministers were who they were and that our economy is who it is. So, since 2005, about 1,400 companies have been privatized, 346 are broken contracts. For the simple reason that the Privatisation Agency neither had professional people, nor was it thinking about selling companies to whom they were sold, whether or not the Solvency Customers, but were going towards a family relationship, giving businesses, destroying companies, and now being asked to do it again. I'm under the impression that it's wanted by people who have some of their own people still working at that Privatisation Agency. In my opinion, I should ask myself, the root privatisation agency should change it, if it can be done with some new people, because there should, as someone said, be good and big, because this agency headed by the minister who was a huge damage to this 1400-dollar state and some of the companies that we give about $750 million every year. It's a huge asset. Imagine, it's also the government's intensity and its president, Alexander Vukic, to do something, to change something in the economy, and it's going to change with people who are in their places and who know their jobs. This way, the director of the agency who will cheer and dress, how it will be sold and which committee will form, what will happen to that commission, is illogical and why this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11298	Dear Members of Parliament, you have received the resignation of Parliamentarian Dragan Gilas as MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation has led to the case referred to in Article 88(2). The Law on selecting Members of Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of the People's Parliament. In accordance with this, and pursuant to Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the selection of MPs of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which MP Dragan Gilas was elected, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. We're continuing the debate by amendment. He has a word, MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11299	Dear President, I simply had to answer and support what Mr. Vuceta and Mr. Djukanovic said. Why is this important? We discussed this yesterday on the Committee on Economic Affairs. Minister Sertic represented the government there. The esteemed colleague who submitted the amendment did not come to defend these amendments on the Committee. As a member of the council, I've asked about all of this Mr. Wolfett's colleagues have noticed. We are changing the law so that in one part we can disenfranchise the Privatisation Agency, because if it were good for us at all in these amendments of the Law we wouldn't have entered and now Mr. Minister you accept the amendments, and yesterday Mr. Sertic on the Committee on Business that same amendment does not accept my question. Now we want to support you in the idea that, first of all, the Ministry has a control function and that the Minister of Business will be the one to give the final word about everything about the control mechanism, and now, if we're going to go back to the story that the Agency and the Director of the Agency play a bigger role than the Ministry itself, then we don't understand anything in this story. So I ask Mr. Vujovic to simply, either sit here today, Minister Sertic, or we don't understand anything here. An esteemed colleague who is unfortunately not in the O.R. today, I was just discussing or discussing his amendment yesterday. He didn't even come to defend him. Minister Sertic said such an amendment is not acceptable and now we come here to tell the story that it is accepted. Now we don't know whether it's being accepted or not. Please make this situation clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11300	Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11301	I don't think we understand each other here. I'm 15b, I said it's unacceptable and the minister remains in charge. Therefore, 15b was a proposal to put the agency's "director", which was not accepted. I said this refers to 15a, where it is only about the expertise of the commission, where the fifth member is added, meaning in 15a, the first part adds to the position – "and whom is appointed by the Director of the Agency", and later added to the criteria in point 1, "seven years of work experience in the profession", which is the first commission under 15a, not 15b. Point 2 adds after the text "that an expert is in a business area", "privacy authorities and areas of legal position and business of companies, bankruptcy areas, legal positions and cooperatives" is added, and point 5 is added. – "is not the owner of shares, shares or assets of a strategic investor". Therefore, only in that part did I agree, because there is a rational basis, of 15b we did not agree and that amendment was not accepted. I apologize for the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11302	It's all in the record, the minister said exactly which amendment was accepted, which is unacceptable, so it's all clear and I thank you. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Honorable Minister Vujovic and the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, here is the opportunity for the government to accept another amendment in our debate today. The two of us, Zoran Zivkovic and I have proposed an amendment to Article 16. Proposal for a law on the Privatisation Agency. According to Article 16 of the Government's proposal, the following is deleted, in Article 17a, point 1 after the word "Fonda" and the words "in accordance with the regulations governing that record". We believe that Article 1 should remain exactly as it is, to delete the proposal in Article 16 sent by the Government. Our argument, respected by gentlemen and Mr Vujovic, above all, was that we felt it was necessary and that there was enough time from the moment the Privatisation Act came into force to reflect on some of the effects of this law, to consider whether the new privatisation law was really a new law with the argument, which existed when we discussed it as a bill, was good? Another thing that I think should have been considered over two months and a few days was whether some of the solutions in that law were as bad as we were and the instructions in our debate here when we discussed together in the Privatisation Law proposal. Instead of using this time that has passed for one kind of questioning, whether it's all done right, I conclude, based on the government's position and on the reasons, that it's not done, but now we want to adapt to one unnecessary law. I hope you adopt our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11304	Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11305	Thank you very much. Let me read you the text of the amendment proposed by the Government. Article 17b is deleted. So much for what's pointless, of course, that this kind of law intervention is possible, and the word "wipes" is the usual form of intervention, either in the bill's proposal, or in the amendment to some law. But what is the essence, what is deleted? The text is deleted – the Agency is obliged to inform citizens of the value of the Fund, the structure of the Fund's assets and other relevant information for the establishment of the price of the shares in public information and on the Agency's website twice a year, on 30 June, or 31 December of the current year. What's the point? Why does the Government use this proposal and the changes, by erasing this member who is one ray of public work, why does it wipe out the little lights that are thrown at this very dark part of Serbia's social life? There is no reason to hide from the public anything that the Government is doing or any agency whose founder is Government, on the contrary, is the constitutional and legal obligation of every government, including the Government of Alexander Vukic, regardless of the blackout of the media, in ways that I am not going to talk about today, and Serbia already knows and there is no need to talk about it, it is already a dominant topic and impression of the month and year, and not just weeks. The question is, why is this member of the law deleted? It is deleted as part of the idea that the privatisation process, the work process of the Privatisation Agency, is completely darkened, as has been done to these strange commissions, chosen by the director of the Privatisation Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11306	It's been a while. Vladimir Pavicevic, by amendment, is wasting your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11307	That's right. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic, the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, I would like to try to convince again, if not Minister Vujovic, and then the MPs, above all, from the Progressive Party, for example. Because there were some votes here that seemed to me to conclude that it was possible for us here today as part of a legislative body to come together to the government to stand up to something that is someone's proposal or the government's position. I think the opportunity to do so is precisely our amendment to Article 17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency. So I offer three arguments, gentlemen, to accept this amendment here. Argument No. 1 – In an explanation of the necessity to adopt this bill, the Ministry stated that the content of the Privatisation Agency Act should be brought into line with the newly adopted Privatisation Act, which was adopted in early August of the current year, so in 2014. Our opinion was, I think, that in time it was confirmed, that this Law on Privatisation was completely new, but that it was enough to make some changes to the existing Law on Privatisation and to agree that in this Assembly the bill was adopted in amendments to the Law on Privatisation, not completely new, plus we are in the discussion here and certainly Mr Vujovic and remembered, that the Law on Privatisation itself, there are now some solutions that we consider to be very bad. Since that was the case, then I believe that this binding of the Privatisation Agency Act with the Privatisation Act gives us the right to have a terrible doubt about the validity of these solutions that we are discussing here today. Another argument, Mr Vujovic and the honourable MPs, first and foremost regarding the amendment to Article 17, if you remember when we read the reasons for the adoption of the Privatisation Act, and today we are also binding this law in Article 17 on this law, then it was there that the Government was applying one responsible economic policy, that macro-economic stability was ensured, and that these are all the conditions for the adoption of the new Privatisation Act with which it should now be harmonised and the Law on the Privatisation Agency. I don't think there's a single person here who's not sure there's an irresponsible economic policy going on and I'm grateful to Mr Vujovic for saying that tomorrow, tomorrow's session of opportunities, I think, is to confirm that in our debate on budget rebalancing. The second thing, macroeconomic instability is present here, and I believe, I remember this debate here today, and tomorrow when we meet to talk about budget rebalancing just to remind ourselves of that, it's another argument that makes me think that this bill should not be adopted or at least to adopt our amendment to Article 17. Proposal for a law on the Privatisation Agency. Dear gentlemen, I have a third argument on the basis of which I believe we deserve support to adopt this amendment. The third argument concerns one condition of the work of the Privatisation and Continuing Privatisation Agency in Serbia, and that thing, the necessary element is legal security, respected gentlemen. Not only do we have an irresponsible economic policy, that we have macroeconomic instability, but we now live in conditions of legal uncertainty. How else do I interpret to Mr Vujovic the statement of the minister of justice who should probably take care of legal certainty most, when he said that some people from the Anti-Corruption Agency are deeply in the honey and that he is waiting to tell us by the time his name is mentioned? If someone’s hands are deep in the honey, it means that it is some terrible crime, and the minister of justice does not respond to that crime, or reacts only when his name appears somewhere. Dear Mr Vujovic, I attach this diameter to a terrible legal uncertainty in which we live and demand that you reconsider and accept our amendment to Article 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11308	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11309	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fear that the independent MPs have not read Article 17. It's a bill of law. Therefore, this provision is deleted because the information on the securities on the value was only related to the securities on the market. Since the new draft law has ceased to apply, citizens cannot be informed of non-marketable securities. The obligation was only to provide information as far as I understood it, and the minister could correct me if I was wrong, that obligation was only about actions that go into the market, and the new bill does not put that action on the market and we cannot keep the citizens informed of what is not happening. We can only inform them about what is happening, which was a legal obligation before the adoption, that is, before this bill is proposed, since the proposal defines that these charters no longer go to the securities market of value, and thus the obligation becomes groundless, and therefore the ministry has also proposed that the obligation be deleted, because it would be horny if it were incorporated into the law. What surprises me is that the information was told by people who were selling out assets, say, "Sartida," when they started selling out assets and announced a tender for, say, "DIN" and "DIV" which, at the time they did, banned several newspapers. They banned the opposition press from writing about the privatisation of "Sartida". So now someone is asking to be informed of something that is not happening to the new bill, and at the time of his reign, it was not disputed for him to ban the newspaper, so that citizens would not accidentally inform themselves, the opposition newspaper, as soon as it came to power, so as soon as he took over the government of the Republic of Serbia, that citizens would not accidentally inform the opposition newspapers about the privatisation of Sartida which was carried out past all the legal rules at the time. The privatisation of the "DIN" tobacco factory in Nis was launched, the privatisation of the "DIV" factory in Vranje was launched. It's interesting that everything was done after visiting the then Prime Minister of America. Interestingly, all three companies, whose privatisation was done during the emergency or were initiated during the state of emergency, that the privatisation was done in favour of US firms. At that time, at least a few newspapers, opposition newspapers, and even as I recall, are banned from breaking up Podgorica's "Today", so one side of the press, one foreign list...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11310	I'm asking for an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11311	I'm talking about the amendment. The amendment envisions information and a man who wants to be fully informed during his rule, at the time of privatisation of the largest Serbian firms, has banned even opposition newspapers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11312	Now that we've finished searching the amendments, I'll conclude... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: No, I have the right to five minutes. Let me check, maybe you're right. You've got three minutes, you've spent two minutes. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: How did I spend two minutes? ) By speaking, we have electronic time here, you can come here and check because we no longer count ourselves, you can only argue with machines. You have three minutes, do you want to use it now? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Now. ) Zoran Zivkovic, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11313	You're wrong, but I'll explain that another time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11314	No, the machine's wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11315	The history of privatisation, as well as this Article 17, began in the early 1990s and ended with two bad laws that had only begun the privatisation process. Serious privatisation began with the privatisation law in 2002. The first year was brought in, began to take effect in 2002 until 2004. By the beginning of 2004, it was under the law without any objections, anyone, this is the golden time, the "Pericle Age" of Serbian privatisation. A witness to this, as an expert on the World Bank and as a friend of Serbia, is also Minister Vujovic, who was very well aware of most of what happened. After that, since 2004, to this day the revision of the law begins, demonization of the privatisation process, criminalisation and everything described in 24, 224, I don't know how many, bad privatisations. The basic point of all, the wish of all the latter authorities since 2004 was to this day to demonise the Law on Privatisation and Privatisation, while at the same time benefiting personally, corruptive benefit from the same law which has not been significantly changed. General ignorance is widespread, so we now see MPs in this assembly today who do not know it is impossible to privatise the building "Usce". "Usce" was sold as real estate, not through the privatisation process, before the Privatisation Act, that "Sartid" was not sold under the Privatisation Act, but by the Court's decision, which had nothing to do with privatisation, that, for example, "Beopetrol" had no objections to what happened in 2003 with the privatisation, but the problems arose in 2005, 2006, when the law was changed. We now have through Article 15a, 15b and 17b an attempt to legalise this criminalization of the privatisation process and these four members of the law have been brought only and exclusively for this reason. We have a further misunderstanding of what's going on. Mr. Vučeta Toskovic and Dragan Jovanovic, who do not hear me now, were opposed to the director of the Privatisation Agency...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11316	You have to talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11317	... He chooses the commission, but they were against it, thinking it was an amendment from his opposition colleagues. That's the bill, that's the proposal the Proposer made. You said you were against it. Afterwards, you agreed to an unmistakable explanation. Privatisation is the inevitable consequence of what happened after 1945. It's not a natural process.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11318	Thank you. You've wasted your time. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to agenda two. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Borislav Stefanović, Goran Ćirić, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric submitted the 17th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11319	Dear President, Mr. Minister, esteemed colleague and colleague, Member 17. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Free Action Law reads – the founder of Serbia's public enterprise, Elektroprivred Belgrade, is obliged to ensure that this company changes its legal form and demonstrates its basic capital in actions of a certain nominal value based on the adjusted book value of capital by 31 December 2016. Our amendment is – Article 17 is deleted. We think it is important to delete this article from the bill, because it is pointless for the Republic of Serbia to impose itself on itself, through the legislative authority of the government, a commitment that is required under the current laws of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, there has been no model of valuation of the value of capital based on the corrected accounting value for ten years, since compliance with international accounting standards was then carried out. As far as this member is concerned, there are several questions. The Republic of Serbia has its representatives in the governance bodies of public enterprises, in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia and in the government. The Legislative Authority adopted the Law on Public Property, the Law on Public Enterprises and the Business Society Act, which constitutes a legal basis for the implementation of previous actions to regulate the relations of public enterprises and property and bonds, organisational structures, etc. I'm particularly sure, and I'd like to hear the answer to that question, that the model of corrected book value is the happiest, given that its essence of assets is reduced by liabilities. As with other public enterprises, it is necessary to determine whether the property has been transferred from the Republic of Serbia to public enterprises and according to which method it has been assessed. We know that here we have passed the Law on the extension of the deadline for implementation and implementation of the Public Property Act. I think it is very important to highlight the very needs and obligations of all public enterprises, as well as the public undertaking EPS to implement this law within a certain time limit, so it does not need to be particularly stressed in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11320	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 17th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the proposal in detail. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 21st Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to the 31st Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric submitted the 6th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11321	Thank you. Article 6 which we are trying to amend this law is fundamentally in the proposal for a law establishing public interest, relating to the "Transbalkan Corridor - the first phase", we believe that it cannot be corrected by this member of the law, except, unfortunately, by eradicating. If it could have been changed in any way, we would've really liked to try that. We believe that Article 6 is completely taken away by the Constitution guaranteeing citizens the right to property and free availability of that property, as that Member of the proposal fully excludes them from the proceedings of that same property. The "Electro Networks of Serbia" and the state authorities have private assets of citizens without knowledge, without will and without any influence of parties in the process itself, i.e. citizens in this sense. How else to interpret this member, which says that the proposals for expropriation, in accordance with the provisions of this law, will be followed by the competent authorities under the rules of the shortened administrative procedure, i.e. it shall be submitted to the owner of the immovable property, which shall be declared within five days of the date of receipt of the proposal, and it shall adopt a solution without hearing the parties. So, they absolutely, in our opinion, hold in their hands the knife and the cake and can do it themselves completely, without using citizens' rights to any legal remedy or procedure to determine where, on which plot "Electro Network of Serbia" is going to build this controversial power line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11322	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11323	Thank you, Madam President. In this whole bill, the most controversial role played by the public enterprises of the "Electro Networks of Serbia" is in this whole law. Reformers would probably say that it is quite suspicious that the director of the public enterprise is godfather of Alexander Vukic in the light of the general departisation of public enterprises, and in particular in this Article 6, and this is brought to Article 9, what is a fundamental problem is that citizens are threatened by their constitution guaranteed the right to have private property. Those members of the proposal shall fully exclude them from all proceedings concerning their assets. The EMS and state authorities, therefore, as proposed, will be able to dispose of other people's property without knowledge, free of will and without any influence from those whose property it is. So if the aim of the bill is to ensure that Alexander Vukic's godmother is able to manage other people's property uninterruptedly, then that should be said clearly, and if that's not the purpose of the law, then let's see how this can change. We did not see any other way besides eradicating this member and some of the same very controversial members, such as Article 14 who is absolutely suspending all other laws of this country, and all in favour of Mr. Nikola Petrovic, who is probably in an open competition accepted as the director of the Public Enterprise "Electro Network Serbia", and he is quite accidentally the prime minister's godfather. If there is a will to agree, as in the case of previous laws, Mr Vujević if he sees any possibility of us making the amendment, we are prepared to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11324	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11325	I thank Madam President, although I do not see the point, any meaning and connection of the previous fellow member of the People's Parliament to what she said and why she is bothered by the director of the "Electro Networks of Serbia" Mr. Nikola Petrovic, who makes it with the company, with his colleagues, unmistakably greater results than did by the "Electro Network of Serbia" during the period of rule of the Democratic Party, the former regime, when public enterprises served, not to be an example, such as the "Electro Network of Serbia", but only a way to employ party personnel, and from these companies extort money. I would not talk about family and family ties, because parliament is not the place to talk about it, because I do not believe that everything the previous speaker said and what praises she had spoken about some people, and then she criticized them and scolded them. I don't think Nikola Petrovic minds, I don't think the "Electro Network of Serbia" is in the way of success. It is the success of the "Electro Networks of Serbia". It interferes with the profits and profits of the "Electro Network of Serbia", Nikola Petrovic and the government of the Republic of Serbia make for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Investments awaited in Belgrade for 20, 20 and a few years, such as 400 kilowatts of Belgrade station 20. The project began in 1981 and by 2012 the rate of achievement was 25%, in October and in 2013 more than 80%. That's why Nikola Petrovic and Elektro Network of Serbia are being attacked, because of the results, because of what he did. Four hundred kilowatt trafo station Vranje four, 2011, 2012 start of works, and in 2013 delivered 95% of total equipment, in 2014 trafo station completed, opening in November. Where are the results of the former government? Where are the results of the Democratic Party? Why is Nikola Petrovic criticised? What's he criticizing himself for? Due to profits achieved, and made the difference between 2012 and 2013, profits are higher by more than 10%, with a billion of 483. They're free to throw – what they're talking about. I know that DS and the former regime aren't responding when it comes to the state's successes. We're going to talk about successes, of course, and what's going on in some people's ears in this room. Achieved results: in 2012, 1.483.358,000, achievement in 2013, 1.626.000,000, 10% increase, 10% higher in the pocket of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This bothers those who attack the "Electro Network of Serbia", the RS government and Nikola Petrovic. Say it openly – it bothers us when public enterprises make a profit. You are bothered by the successes of the public enterprises of the RS. It bothers you that at the end of 2013, the leading global company for the control, verification, testing and certification of SGS provided certificates for integrated management of systems according to the requirements of ISO 9001, 14001, OHSAS 18001 and thus, although you look at the other side and do not care what we say or do not concern you the success of the public undertaking EMS positioned as a society of responsible organisations that systematically manage the processes with the application of valid methodologies, and in order to improve the conditions of work of its employees, the protection of the environment and continued fulfilment of requests of users of services and other stakeholders. It is a small session to show what Mr. Nikola Petrovic is and what the RS government has done. We'll talk about the Vinch power line. A colleague will report and explain what was done in New Belgrade. Since when does a power line cause cancer? Since when the power line that you've designed, which you've obtained the permits for, which you've set the route for, which you've waited for to build illegal and illegal facilities under that power line, and now, my God, you're worried about why that power line is working, even though it's higher at the height of the pillars so that the security of the citizens in these illegal facilities is secured. Why don't you say - we're responsible, we've set up here, we've traveled that way? What do you expect to throw it all away and waste the project and time on the other side? You think the citizens forgot? Do you think people in Serbia have forgotten what you've been doing and how you've done? We'll remind you, no matter how we turn our heads on the other side. We'll remind you of all the bad things you've done to this society, these public enterprises and the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11326	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11327	I answer because I am personally mentioned, not in the name of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11328	No problem. Is it a replica or are you using time?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11329	Replica. They don't mind investment, Mr. Granny. It's a shame there's no investment. The problem is that you have the least investment since 2000, and as a major investment, you show a job in which Serbia participates with 600m euros, and the Arab partner participates with 44m borrowed euros. It's just that the hotel in the bathroom is bought for a billion and a half dollars, so it's sold for 600. Nor does Mr. Nikola Petrovic mind that in the course of the story of the departmentalisation of public enterprises, you set up Vucic's best man for the director of the public enterprise. No one is bothered by successes or successes, the great successes of these public enterprises or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the fact that these successes are so great that tomorrow in the Serbian Parliament we will adopt a budget that reduces salaries and pensions for people, because Serbia will be saved by taking 1,500 dinars for medicines to pensioners and teaching teachers on the streets by 3,000 dinars to stand in the rain. At the same time, it stands out for more money political parties, all claiming that five months have passed since 2011, and that in the five months, the law could not be amended. Now, that bothers me. It is a concern that we were told by a representative of the Ministry of Finance on the Education Committee five minutes ago that expenditures in the budget were higher because of the unplanned elections, and that this would require that salaries be changed to educational workers, and the elections were organised because the SNS brought down the previous government to make Alexander Vukic prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11330	Time. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11331	Whenever the argument runs out or moves on personal hatred and personal insults or changes the subject. All of a sudden, we're with the EMS, we've got nothing to talk about EMS anymore, now suddenly we're on our way to Er Serbia. You got it. Great. Great, the results are similar. I have offered myself to other colleagues who do not respond to what they see in the sky above Serbia, but also above many other countries a sign from Er Serbia. It doesn't suit them to see 10 A319s, A320s that aren't new, but they're eight years old and they're functional and they're safe, unlike JAT, who was driving and carrying passengers from two 25-year-old planes. I guess it's so good. I guess it's a good thing she did DS where every year 55m euros were given to that same JAT. I guess that's better than Er Serbia made in nine months to earn one million euros. See, that separates us. That's what separates us. On the other hand, when we talk about the Law on the financing of political activities, I believe that the previous speaker can say – I am not responsible, because she was not in the DS at the time, but was responsible because she voted for this law that defines and which must be respected until it changes, the law must be respected. But your problem is that there are few of you and that you are getting smaller and that maybe next time you won't even be in this room, with the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and which is such a law, there is no such money. As for public finances, we'll talk tomorrow, we'll talk about the consequences, the consequences of a dangerous virus that you've infected public finances in Serbia, and this is the way to cure, this is the bitter pill we've received the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11332	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, Mr. Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11333	I'm very sorry that this was used to get away from the facts and the truth again. I'm sorry you're wrong, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11334	Please don't speak directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11335	I looked up at the top of the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11336	Mr. Stefanovic, you're very funny, but please address me as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11337	So, firstly, how many of us are going to be decided by the citizens of Serbia. We may be getting smaller, but you're getting more and more in every sense, Mr. Granny. Secondly, I must say that "Serbian power grids" are monopolies. As such, they earn through imports, moss, electricity. If that's what you're boasting about, it's a big problem for this country. This is the result of your government's boasting about imports of electricity, which should otherwise be collected, so you can't tell citizens yet, although you promised to cheap 20%, I think. Mrs. Mihajlovic spoke in the campaign. It's got nothing, it's got 11%, and it's going to cost more, unfortunately. So that's what this is about. As far as the Vinca power line is concerned, when already mentioned, it was to be built according to the urban plan of 80 and some years. The plan was changed three times, or twice after that, to move away from school and kindergarten. Noisy gentlemen, virology experts, understand that your virusology that you are engaged in discrediting Serbian citizens cannot hide the fact that you are working without a legal basis. That you want to expose people to harmful radiation, as studies show.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11338	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11339	And what's worse is that it's done to use alternative sources of energy with which Mr. Petrovic has some connection. That's what's bothering you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11340	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Alexander Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11341	I am sorry, as well as the previous speakers, that this item of the agenda is used for day-to-day political bickering, so before we are in the debate on amendments to one legislative project that is truly of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, for all its citizens, above all for generations to come. I expected that, as such, one legal solution would come up with wider support and opposition political parties, a team before, which, I will repeat, in its essence, in its position, this legislative project is identical to the law defining the legal procedure for expropriation when it comes to "South Stream". When I looked at and analyzed how the political parties voted in 2013 for the law, I found that it was all the parties that voted in parliament today for the legislative project. I am completely surprised that in 2013, the project that the Republic of Serbia is working together with Russian partners was good, and in 2014 the project that the Republic of Serbia is doing entirely is causing such controversy itself. I cannot accept that the reason why this project is done by JP EMS is because, according to the laws passed by this parliament, the "Electro Networks of Serbia" are licensed for all activities in our energy system, related to high voltage transmission. As such, they have the exclusive right to do this project. These other personal things, I really think they're below the level of dignity of the Assembly to decompose them. What I have to point out, reacting to what the head of the DS parliamentary group was talking about, is simply not true. The "Electro Network of Serbia" does not realise its revenues based on electricity imports, Mr Stefanovic. The "Electro Network Serbia" generates net-based revenues related to all high-voltage electricity transits, 400 kilowatts of high voltage and as such is the least related to imports of electricity. Moreover, when Serbia imports or exports the ESM profession, freeing electricity transit capacity is at a direct loss. I know it's not your profession, as it isn't mine, but you could have informed yourself, and it's not good when a high-quality politician, as you show that you have ambitions, is talking so uninformedly about the important agenda point ahead of us. At the very end, since I suppose I will still have the need to pollute, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted amendments that come from the fact that this law is unconstitutional and that unconstitutional solutions to expropriation are. Starting with the fact that this law is precisely allowing those two elements that our Constitution requires, the declaration of public interest which we are doing with this law and the just compensation that we have provided with this law. This legal solution speeds up procedures because this law needs to be implemented in the shortest time. I repeat, Serbia must be the centre of the new "Transbalkan Corridor" because it is in the interest of us, primarily of our children, because we need to take that leadership post and that nocturnal point in the Southeast European Power System. For this reason, we are going to measures that speed up this project, and all those mechanisms that are protective of our citizens who are defined by the Constitution, the Law on Expropriation and other legal solutions, this law does not erode and do not enter the rights of our citizens, and I repeat, first of all, it is responsible for Serbia's hard citizens. When it comes to the fact and the elements related to environmental protection, I have to visit a high voltage transmission in all modern world countries throughout Western Europe that there are certain rules for this and in the planning documentation that is part of this project, of course, there are those elements that are related to environmental impact. On the other hand, in most of the course of this new 400 kilowatt Transbalkan Corridor, we already have an existing network that is at 220. To the greatest extent, we only raise that to 400 kilowatts with new pillars of rise from the country level and this can only be in most cases better for the quality of our fellow citizens' health than the existing network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11342	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11343	I will once again, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Minister, and thank you for these suggestions, but I am not speaking in my mind, but based on the valid evidence and documentation I have obtained. First, it is completely incorrect for the power line to cross any basic schools and kindergartens, since these facilities are located outside the planned corridor of the power lines. Up to the part of illegally built facilities, the power lines are passed which is why the project takes appropriate measures to increase the height of pillars and conductors and provides complete safety of the environment with adequate technical solutions. That's what's important. What is also very important, Mr. Minister, and what I suppose you know, is that the subject of the power line is done on the basis of documentation, and this documentation is the following – the 2003-2005 Act of Urban Conditions, which built a complete technical documentation in 2008, issued by the General Plan of Belgrade until 2021, the "Official Messenger" from 2003 and 2005, which led Belgrade in those years, which precisely does not define the facility, but gives general settings in space, the Detailed Urban Plan for the Construction of Supernational Waters "Belgrade 8 to the Dupa Park-Storage Forest of Zvesar", Decisions on determining urban plans which, in general or in parts, are not contrary to the Law on Planning and Construction of 2003. The decision also covers the DUP for the power lines in question since 1987. Then, the Report of the Republic Revised Commission of 3 November 2008, which was then in power in Belgrade and Serbia, a solution that has established the public interest since 11.6.2009, which was then in power in Belgrade and Serbia, who made this documentation, a solution which was given the consent of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning to Studio on the assessment of the environmental impact of the electricity pipeline project since 31.12.2010, and I believe that colleagues are giving this criticism to Oliver Dulic since he signed this solution and this consensus, a solution to the approval for the construction of the relevant power line...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11344	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11345	... Since 27.7.2009, the 2011 Energy Licence, which was in power in Belgrade and Serbia in 2011. The only confirmation of the 2014 admissions is because we want to strengthen the energy system by what has been imposed on us through both the route and the corridor and all technical solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11346	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11347	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get back to the subject. The theme is the DS amendment. What's important for understanding is that it's not just about the property of people who are at risk at this time. This is about the fact that they are concerned about their health, the health of their children, and everything my predecessors have said. So, on the side of the citizens in this case, and the minister knows well, is the Law on the Protection of Non-Employing radiation which explicitly prohibits in Article 3... Mr. Chairman, can I have it? Thank you. I understand this is of no interest to the SNS Parliament Club, but it would be good to hear from you. In Article 3. The law on protection against non-ionising radiation explicitly prohibits any unnecessary exposure to non-ionising radiation. In this case, it is unnecessary because both the trafo station and the power line can be built and drawn, we are not against building a trafo station and a power line. They are needed not only at locations and above the largest school in Serbia and the Balkans, the "Nikola Tesla" primary school with 2,500 pupils, the largest kindergarten in Belgrade with over 900 children, and in the meantime there will be an expansion of capacity, but at other locations, not in the middle of Block 32 by residential buildings because we think the World Health Organization is a relevant institution enough to say that this radiation is more than harmful compared to EU standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11348	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11349	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, it seems to me like the previous speaker moved to Serbia yesterday. It even looks to me like he's acting like a man who set something on fire and made a big fire or a man who belongs to the party who did it, and then he sits at the firehouse and criticises the firefighters for not coming in time to put out the fire. It's DS. It's Mr. Balša Bozovic. Namely, the substation has been set back decades. They gave permission to those who ruled before them and then DS, but let's side with that power line right there. However, who allowed Mr Bozovic to build these facilities...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11350	Please, Mr. Jovic, you can't speak directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11351	Mr. Chairman, I ask you, who has allowed this? Who allowed the facilities to rise illegally, and who allowed perhaps even legal and legal objects to be raised because someone took the money for such a thing. As far as the New Belgrade Trafo station is concerned, someone has allowed it. You have a chance for your president to now, if he's still yours, to change it in some way or at least to give the initiative, but we don't see his initiative. Then, the head of the parliamentary group, the esteemed chairman, the DS said of the "Electro Networks of Serbia" as one enterprise and a man who runs the company honestly and honestly and earns the gain that it is a monopoly, that it is a monopoly company that makes its income. Mr. Chairman, the monopoly also holds the city's cleanliness and the water pipeline and the Channeling and Parking Services in the City of Belgrade, but by 2013, these companies were in millions of losses because someone was pulling money for individual parties' campaigns, in this case DS, because someone had subcontractors who were taking money from the citizens of RS and the citizens of Belgrade, and that's DS policy. Therefore, even if it were an EMS monopoly, the company is working for the benefit of citizens, the company will give the government of the Republic of Serbia as the use of money that will be pumped into the economy, and you, if you had stayed to run Belgrade or public enterprises in Serbia, we would all sit together at that firehouse and wait for firemen. Mr Bozovicu, the esteemed chairman, the firefighters have arrived, put out the fires that you have made and do not fear for Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11352	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. I would ask all the MPs and remind them that we are currently on Article 6, amendments submitted jointly by the MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric. Please all return to the amendment, this is an important topic for the citizens of Serbia, but to go back and talk about the subject, because we will be forced to take a break. Thank you. The Republic has a National MP, Balsa Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11353	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Chairman, I don't know why my colleague Jovicic's so nervous...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11354	I would ask you not to speak to the MP, not to use his name, and not to give him the opportunity to replicate. It's your manners, but I'd like to ask you not to.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11355	No, I only asked you why she was nervous. And when did he mention him? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11356	Mr. Sutanovac, Mr. Bozovic doesn't need a lawyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11357	Can you give me back my time, please, I have 30 seconds? I hope you count me in these thirty-seven seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11358	Sign up again so I can count your time again. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11359	Thank you. What is also a topic, which in this case, Jovicic did not have a chance to know, is the Archusa Convention Serbia ratified in May 2009 and I am sure that Mr. Minister is familiar with this because he was in power with the DS during that period. In 2009, the United States of The Archusa Convention established three rules that the Republic of Serbia is obliged to respect. The first rule is citizens' access to information. For hundreds and hundreds of letters, citizens tried to get information on how, when and why no one would talk to them, no one would comply with their demands, and no answer was received. To all competent institutions, all those who are today, including investors, the Elektro-distribution of Belgrade. The second rule, it is the right of citizens to participate in decision-making on the environment. So the government of the Republic of Serbia did not allow them to exercise their right to do so. In the end, the right to legal protection in case the previous two rights are violated. In this case, the Republic of Serbia has taken all three rights away from the citizens. It's very important that we focus on this subject, not because it's someone against a power line or a trafo station, I repeat, but because people are concerned about the health of their children, because the World Health Organization said that everything over 0.4 Micro-Tesla is dangerous for the lives and health of people close to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11360	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. On Article 9 of the amendment, they put together... (Alexander Jovičić, from the place: Replica. Mr. Jovic, are you looking for a replica? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11361	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm really glad and I'm honored to know you in these benches of a man who knows the Archus Convention extremely well and studied it. I don't think he even heard of her until he saw her on this paper he read. But besides that convention, I'm just looking for one simple answer, and that's -- why did you give anyone the opportunity to build anything on the territory of what you're criticizing today and think it shouldn't be there? Well, we didn't make that substation, or that power line, but someone might have done it before you, but you were ten to 15 years old to change that. But I repeat again, that fire you've caused is all burnt out, and today you're sitting on the same thing and criticizing the firefighters for not coming to put an end to it. Why don't you criticise, for example? 500 failed privatisations and don't be self-critical of yourself? Why don't you criticize 400,000 people without a job? Why don't you criticize all those days and years when you've been putting your hand in our pocket? Why don't you criticize it, Mr. Bozovic? I'm sorry, Chairman. Here, we'll hear from Mr. Stefanovic after he raises his hand. Let's hear why you're not criticizing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11362	Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11363	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There were several times mentioned my name and party in a negative context, so I'm going to use this as a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11364	Here, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11365	First, I need to talk to the firemen who put out the gas fires in Serbia. How could you build and think about building, Mr. Antic, and have your energy license expired, which you even hung on your site as a leak? How is it possible that you are here accusing the City of Belgrade where you were the deputy mayor and you were silent, while your party ran energy in that government? How come you don't mind? How is it possible to ignore the entire Law on Ionizing Emissions, which in this way is flagrantly broken and broken? If the power grid of Serbia is not engaged in the transmission of electricity through power lines and is not part of the transfer and imports, then how do they earn their revenues? Is the current in the buckets being transmitted, Minister, or through the wires? If it's passed over the wire, then Mr. Petrovic is in charge and he draws his money from there. That money was increased because you said yourself that our spears were flooded and you said yourself that it had dropped production, that's what you said and I believe you, and that's why import was increased, but that's not something to brag about, gentlemen. I asked you, Minister, to answer me, that we do not listen here to any things that have nothing to do with this amendment – is it true that Mr. Nikola Petrovic, director of Serbia's Elektro Network, has anything to do with the production of alternative energy sources in Serbia? Does he personally have connections, because this law mentions alternative sources of energy... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11366	Mr. Stefanovic, I ask you, if you just said a sentence to talk about the subject and not to say things that have nothing to do with it, you, after one second, say something that has nothing to do with this topic. Please end up in accordance... If I asked all MPs to return to the topic, the amendment submitted jointly by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric, to simply talk about the amendment. You're not talking about your amendment and what else do we expect? Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11367	Thank you. Just give me the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11368	You've got 15 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11369	So someone didn't read the bill. It clearly speaks of the transfer of electricity related to alternative energy sources. I ask what it says and there's no reason for anyone here to feel threatened by it. This is in the interest of Serbian citizens, not the story of firefighters. When it's changed... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11370	Thank you. It's been two minutes. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, was here to discuss who the godfather is, who did what, who robbed Serbia, what Serbian citizens are concerned about, etc. What interests the Serbian Progressive Party and what interests, I think, is the dominant majority of Serbian citizens who were best man, for example. in this business. Agreement on the provision of consulting services in the process of auction privatisation, Group 27 and under 1) "AD Milkara" Pančevo, 2) "DP Milkar Mladost" Kragujevac, 3) "AD Milkara Šabac", 4) "DP Milkara Leskovac", 5) "Niška mlekara" Nis, 6) "DP Milkara Pirot", between the Privatisation Agency, Republic of Serbia Terrace 23... (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: I don't understand what this has to do with the topic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11372	Mr. Bozovic and Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw away the speaker. I'm sorry, just Mr. Bozovic. Mr. Bozovic, don't throw the speaker away. I'm sorry, Mr. Sutanovac, if I thought you would, since you usually do it all the time, now I thought you were in a duet. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11373	I thank you, Mr. Becic. So, the contract was concluded between the Agency for the Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia, Therazia 23, 6th floor, 11000 Belgrade and, imagine, the consulting house CES Mekon, on 11 September 2003. In order to avoid any confusion, what convention protects Serbian citizens from this robbery as it is contained in this contract? He says – for the Privatisation Agency Mirko Cvetkovic, director. Was that DS or SNS? For “CES Mekon” – Radmilo Lukić, director. Watch it now. I wouldn't read the whole contract, it's full of crimes. He says this way – a five-euro fee in dinar equivalent at the middle course of the National Bank of Yugoslavia on the day of payment in accordance with Clause 8.3 to the jury account of the consultants and that one. The sale rate is 2% of the total amount of the transaction value, in the text below – transaction value. It is further said – the transaction value has been determined as a total of 100% of the sale price, plus 50% of the value of the investment in the company, guaranteed by the buyer for a period of three years, etc., September 11th 2003. Who was in power in the Republic of Serbia? Let's move on. But this contract is ridiculously criminal compared to the next one. What convention protects citizens of the Republic of Serbia from such things? He says – The Treaty on the provision of consulting services for the production and implementation of the privatisation strategy for the public company JAT Erviz, concluded between the Republic of Serbia, the government and the consortium headed by the company Rothschild, in Belgrade on 26 September 2007. Is this the government where I think Mr. Sutanovac was the Secretary of Defense? Look further...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11374	Mr. Martinovic, please do not mention another MP and return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11375	I'll be back on the subject. What convention protects citizens of the Republic of Serbia from these things contained in this Treaty? Here it is said - the structure of the fee, numbered 38 of the names of the consultants. He says – a workday fee for this first one, I will not mention the names, 2,424 euros, spent time, the number of working days – 33, 80,000 euros. This second – workday fee – 1,957 euros, working days 46 – 90 000 euros. This third -- 1,917 euros, working days 12, 23,000 euros. Fourth – 1.818 euros, working days 11, 20,000 euros. Fifth – 1,750 euros, working days 20, 35,000 euros. The sixth – 1.667 euros, the number of working days 12, 20,000 euros. So, in 12 working days, you get 20,000 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11376	Mr. Martinovic, is that for setting up a power line or just for consultants? Go on, please. I'd just like to ask you to link it to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11377	I'm going to tell you, because I'm not allowed to speak personally to the MPs of the former regime who are applauding in hysteria. And now I'm going to tell you why I'm reading these numbers. If there were no such robbery, do you know how many power lines, how many new hydropower plants, how many new schools, how many new kindergartens, how many new roads, railways, bridges, would have been built in the Republic of Serbia from 2007 to 2014 if people who led Serbia had not dared to rob Serbian citizens in such an improbable way by 2012? Today they say – and why does the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic, reduce wages and pensions? Because, gentlemen, you've paid this list of 38 people for some circuses allegedly two months of work for 150,000 euros. I ask you - how many capital infrastructure facilities could it have been raised that criminals who led Serbia until 2012 did not do such things?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11378	Minister, have you spoken under this amendment at all? He's calling, the line's working. You've blocked the system. There's more than six people from the DS, actually, I'm sorry, there's not that many of you in the O.R. I'm very serious. You've blocked the system because you've all called, plus a couple of SNS speakers. We have to delete the list. Let's get one in now. I say one, sign seven. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Then the first violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11379	Please, the chairman, you were changing places when the previous speaker said this country was being led by criminals until 2012. It's an insult, a violation of the 107th dignity of parliament. Please don't use words like that here, because we can't feel it. We will begin to answer in the same way if you do not sanction MPs who violate the Rules of Procedure like this. Who was the criminal who led Serbia until 2012? In which court it has been proven that any criminal who led Serbia until 2012. Please, let us no longer report to the Rules of Procedure and advertise such violations of the Rules of Procedure, and that you respond to such insults as are constantly brought out by one of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11380	Thank you. I wasn't there, and you know it. I apologize to everyone... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You were present. Someone here has to run the session. I'll wait for an MP if he has to swear a little bit and his passions to calm down. So, what I wanted to say was polite, dear colleague, I apologize to you, personally, if you felt both called and injured. I can't react otherwise, because I wasn't in the O.R. at the time. So, accept my personal apology if such words are spoken at your expense, I'm sorry. I know it's hard for people to say I'm sorry. I know some people wouldn't say that. Well, I'll say it myself to this MP because I can't do it wider, because others didn't ask for this violation of the Rules of Procedure. I followed up even though I had to do something, because you know that the President of Parliament has some other obligations to hold a session to make this work at all. Now I'm going to use my right to close a circle of replicas, and I have that in my Rules of Procedure. Absolutely, you didn't hear me. [[Dear Sutanovac, from the place: There was no replica.]] For the course of the session, to close the circle of replicas, because ever since I got out, all this has been about each other's accusations, not amendments. I am obliged by the Rules of Procedure to stick to the agenda of this session and I am entitled by the Rules of Procedure to lead Parliament and session and close the circle of replicas when it comes out of some framework of parliamentary diplomacy, if you think that you have expressed each other's views diplomatically. I'll delete the list and move on. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric submitted the 9th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, the applicant of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11381	Madam President, in Article 9, there are things that seriously threaten us with the Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms of citizens, and for this we have proof and a decision of the Constitutional Court in an analogous case which states that - the proposed solutions have made it impossible for citizens to protect their rights in the proposed procedure of expropriation, i.e. not to provide equal protection of parties in the process, in accordance with Article 35(1). The Constitution of Serbia. The same thing is done in Article 9 of this Act and therefore we believe that this member, unfortunately, should be deleted without any possibility of repairs. Since your vice president has made it possible for the MP to talk six and a half minutes about the U.S. personnel here, to read us the charges...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11382	I'm asking you about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11383	Now I'm going to answer the same question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11384	You won't, for sure. No one else will do the same while I'm talking, and don't threaten. Now I'll do the same. That looks childish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11385	Please, I want the same right as Ambassador Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11386	No, you can't. If a colleague said he was...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11387	But it's not a warning. He hasn't been warned once.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11388	Okay, I apologized for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11389	No, no apology, but the MP continued for six and a half minutes to read the URS personnel charged. He should let me read something now, because he's allowed...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11390	Does it have anything to do with the amendment "expect", Article 9 and Article 9?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11391	It has the same connections as the Milky Way that was mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11392	So, you were complaining that it wasn't right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11393	So we rebelled against the president, a man for six and a half minutes without interruption reading. You weren't there, so I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11394	So you want six and a half minutes to read without interruptions and then that's okay? No, I'm just looking for a minute, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11395	Can I? So, in what business of financial reconstruction at the Privatisation Agency was there a man who first resigned from the Privatisation Agency, and then with the same agency concluded a contract on consolidation and obtained millions under the contract?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11396	I thank all the MPs for today's debate. We have, like this, since I can't even put in order today...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11397	There's no order when you're in charge. You've got to get the order in early.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-23-0.u11398	You can sit or stand, I don't care. I apologize to the Minister. So, in accordance with Article 112, for the second time today, I use it, that – if the president of the National Assembly cannot maintain order with regular measures at the session, they will set a break until order is established. It's for all MPs. It's the right of an MP. Whoever is not satisfied with the session, I fully agree that I may be wrong, but in the end, the citizens of Serbia are judging, not us individually. Anyone else want a word? (No) People's MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric jointly submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The promoter doesn't answer for a word, they're not here. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does the promoter want a word? (No) Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric do not want a word. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank the Minister, we will now move on to the vote. You've done your job, and thank you. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 23 October 2014, starting at 16.50 p.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Wait till we get the synopsis for the vote. Can we move on to the vote? All right. Before we move to decision-making, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I'm sorry, I beg your pardon, I've been confused by the MPs who came out. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 149 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency, in principle. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 154, not three of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendments of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy to Article 2 and the People's MP Dubravka Filipovski to Article 15. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 159 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – one, abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against - one, abstention - has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 against - no one, with abstentions, voted one of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstention - voted 163 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstention - voted 163 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - two, abstained - has voted 161 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against - one, abstention - has voted 162 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against - one, abstention - has voted 162 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against - one, abstention - has voted 162 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 162 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstention - voted 164 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against - one, abstention - has voted 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against - one, abstention - has voted 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against - one, abstention - has voted 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ćirić and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstention - voted 164 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic and Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against - no one, with abstentions, voted two of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic and Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted the 15th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 162 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Branko Karavidic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 162 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstention - voted 164 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstention - voted 164 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against - two, abstentions - no, two of the 164 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Right to Free Action and Money Compensation, which the Citizens make in Privatization Procedures After the National Assembly has conducted a review of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 against - one abstention - there are no, two of the 164 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric submitted the 17th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 162 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 163 of the total attendance of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Since we have come to the conclusion of the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161, v - two, abstentions - no, three of the 166 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the right to free action and the financial compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – no one with abstention – has voted – one of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 21st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 31st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – no one with abstention – has voted – one of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Investment Funds Act. Since the National Assembly has carried out the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the determination of public interest and the special procedures for the expropriation and procurement of documentation in order to realize the construction of the electricity transmission system 400 kilowatts of the voltage level "Transbalkasnki corridor – the first phase", in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164 against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – two of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric submitted the 6th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – three, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 161 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric submitted the 9th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 163 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the determination of public interest and the special procedures for the expropriation and procurement of documentation in order to realize the construction of the electricity transmission system 400 kilowatts of the voltage level "Transbalkasnki corridor – the first phase" in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 164, v – two abstentions – there are no MPs who have not voted, of the total of 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and procurement of documentation to implement the construction of the electricity transmission system 400 kilowatts of the voltage level “Transbalkasnki corridor – the first phase”. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the motion to appoint the Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and before moving to the vote, I remind you, according to Article 37(2). The Rules of Procedure, Deputy Secretary-General, has been appointed by the majority of the total number of MPs. I would like to put the motion to be appointed Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly Branko Marinkovic. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – there is no one with abstention – four of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly appointed Branko Marinkovic by majority of the votes of all MPs as deputy secretary general. Let me congratulate Branko Marinkovic on his appointment as Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly and wish for success in performing this function. I put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the 2013 report on the work of the national torture prevention mechanism, which was submitted by the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality on 20 October 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – no one, abstention – one, voted – three of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I would like to put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the national torture prevention mechanism for 2013, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government on 20 October 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – no one with abstention – has voted – one of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I would like to put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the national torture prevention mechanism for 2013, which was submitted by the Committee on the Rights of the Child on 20 October 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165, against – no one with abstention – has voted – one of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 22 October 2014, at 12 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstentions - voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 22 October 2014, at 12 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - two abstentions - has voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 22 October 2014, at 12 hours and 52 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 112. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - five abstentions - has voted 144 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014.
