ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15875	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first the MPs who came on time to receive an apology from me, even though I came on time, and I am obliged to apologize to you. I don't know what happened or why some MPs didn't show up at 10:00. We continue the work of the 10th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 82 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Dr. Ljiljana Kosoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15876	Today's question I ask the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, and it says - when will the trains at Belgrade-Bar be driving the old section? Namely, seven months have passed since the catastrophic floods that caused and changed the route of rail traffic on the Belgrade-Bar track.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15877	I would like a moment of silence and attention from the Members of Parliament who have just come to listen to others. Please. I apologize to you, I'll give you time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15878	Between Valjev and the train station "Lastra", several rinks and slopes occurred in the river Gradac ravine, and railway traffic was interrupted as a result. Trains traffic the second section, the second route through Mladenvec, Lapov, Staljac, so Požega and this relationship is much longer. I ask the question on behalf of the citizens who live in the vicinity of the City, who are cut off from the world, because in the May floods, the bridge and the road died, and even now the railway is not working, on behalf of the citizens of Koseric, Požega and Užica, and beyond because this opportunity and these difficulties are the most affected students and students who go to Valjevo for schooling, in Belgrade, and ordinary citizens who would have completed the urgent jobs in Belgrade every day, especially when they have scheduled medical appointments. Surely, the damage from this failure of the railway line is multiple. First, the citizens themselves are costing both time and a half kilometers larger, as well as materially multiple, as well as certainly the Serbia Railway. It is incomprehensible for citizens that no repair of this stock has yet taken place and the establishment of rail traffic, to return to the right relationship. That's why I'm asking the ministry -- when will the trains at Belgrade-Bar's route be driving an old stock because there are more dilemmas, there were words by the end of the year, and apparently that deadline has been extended? I'm sure in due time, legally envisaged, I'll get an answer from the Ministry, as I've received from the Ministry of Interior, Education and Health. On this occasion, I would also like to ask more questions to the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm gonna put them off for another time because I'm patiently waiting for the answer I set seven or eight months ago and I'm asking you, President, for an emergency. Indeed, I asked the question of solving the problem of the village on June 12th, and I still haven’t received an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15879	Thank you. The word is Master Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, I have a few questions. The first question concerns environmental protection and I refer it to the resolution ministry. First of all, we are interested and the citizens of Beocina are interested in the issue of solving the problems arising from environmental pollution by Lafarz. Recently, there was a significant tribune that dealt with the very subject. The representatives of Lafarza have not responded or accompanied the topic, so I am interested in what co-operation is and what is being done about solving the very problem of environmental protection in Beocin municipality. The second question is for Minister Kori Udovicki and comes from the Shimanovac. The Šimanovci are the local community of the Municipality of Pećinci, a municipality that is currently one of the most attractive for foreign investors, and it certainly serves us proudly and will certainly be useful for Serbia's future and meets all the conditions to become an independent municipality. Citizens are interested in the way and way legally in which they can realize their desire to actually become a municipality. I'd like to ask the third question to the Minister of Trade. It comes from small producers of healthy food in Serbia who are many and who are struggling with the current economic crisis, with all that the market imposes, all the problems of society. but we have information that the fair in Milan in 2015, the Expo Fair, which is extremely attractive and almost under some other conditions, could indeed promote Serbia as a global food producer. So we have information that Serbia has been awarded the Italian government as a donation of 500 square squares of space to present food and other food-related products, i.e. the topic is food, nutrition, a healthy diet of the planet in the future. They are interested in how they can get information through the ministry on how to be exhibitors at the big fair and thus promote original healthy products in Serbia. We think it would be one really big chance for Serbia, and I say it is a donation from the Italian government worth half a million euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15881	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15882	Thank you, Madam President. My questions will be directed towards the prime minister and the Ministry of Mining and Energy. Therefore, on 1 March 2013, the Law establishing the public interest and the special procedures for the expropriation and procurement of documentation for the realisation and construction of the natural gas transport system ‘South Stream’ entered into force. It was then announced that about 8,000 hectares of land would be exploited and that the total value of the land would be around 24m euros. My question is, what is the area of the land on which the expropriation has already been carried out? It's also -- what's going to happen to that land? We have received information that, for example, expropriation continues to take place in the town of Panchev, and we all know that the project "South Stream" has been abandoned. The next question - what is the government's plan with the application of that law, i.e. will the process of expropriation for the "South Stream" be suspended? To monitor the realisation of the construction of the South Stream pipeline, Article 15 of the law provides for the education of the occasional working body, consisting of representatives of the ministry, university, scientific institutions and the Engineering Chamber of Serbia. My questions are: who are members of this working body, by what criteria have they been chosen, how many times has this working body been occupied and how much total compensation has been paid to each of the members of that working body so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15883	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15884	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking the government and the competent ministers what are they doing about the growing, increasingly common and increasingly serious threat to the security of Serbia's citizens? In recent days, we have witnessed a series of events that have caused people enormous anxiety, fear and a great sense of uncertainty. First case. Last week, it was reported in the media that four kilometers of cables were stolen on the Adi bridge in Belgrade, by thieves, quoting a report from newspapers -- by crowbars and pliers to break locks and locks at the bottom of the bridge, passing through the audit tunnel and breaking the closet door where the installations were installed. The result was that four days' bridge on Ada was without functional lighting, resulting in financial nature, but the result was a major threat to traffic safety. A key question arises – how is it possible for one such facility as the Adi bridge, without the necessary security, to walk into those rooms where important equipment is located across Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbian citizens are watching billboards, celebrating Belgrade. How will we celebrate Belgrade when we cannot provide such an object as the Ada bridge and provide the necessary protection and security for the citizens of Belgrade, including Serbia. There is a similar situation in Serbia. They steal power lines, they steal parts of traffic stations, they steal tracks, traffic signs. All these citizens are exposed to enormous uncertainty and endangering their safety. What's the state doing to get in the way of this? A lot of people call this the copper mob. I wonder if the state knows if there's a report on who's organizing these thefts, who's instigating them, who's that copper, who's waning them, who's buying these cables, where the copper's still melting? These are the essential questions I expect from the MUP. The citizens of this response must know. Another case, endangering the security and security of citizens, not without reason from many called scandals is the publication of personal data from Serbian citizens that have been made available via the Privatisation Agency website. This is the most dramatic confirmation of the incomprehensible, irresponsible attitude of the state towards the right of citizens to protect personal data. According to what the Commissioner has said so far, it is 5,190,000 people whose data has been published in this way. And a third case of security and security threats is the attack by the third-Serbian president at an NGO in Kanvas and its president, Srdja Popovic. This attack was verbal, but he was threatening. He was calling for action and violence. It was made up of one matrix that we had so many opportunities to see during the 1990s, only then was the responsibility of the SRS for attacks on civil society and civil society organisations, and today it looks like the task in Serbia's third, but Serbia's third, let's not forget the SNS coalition partner in Novi Sad. We haven't heard anyone from the government fenced or expressed themselves in any way in connection with this case. Our concern about this case is great because we know from experience that this is how attacks on civil society organisations begin, free association with NGOs. The impression is that this authority is determined to very systematically criminalise and thus marginalise all those actors that led to October 5th 2000 and democratic changes in Serbia. First she tried to marginalise and criminalise the DS, then discipline the media, and now, is this an announcement and attempt to regulate the situation in the civil sector. Gentlemen of the government, silence is precisely a silent support for these outbursts, which, if we all clearly fence from it, will be more and more in the future. We should stress that freedom of association is one of the fundamental rights and freedom of action in the civil sector and that it is something that will be evaluated in the chapters we expect to open soon. I'm looking for answers from the departments responsible for these questions I've asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15885	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15886	Thank you. I'd have a few questions, since I came from the Srlig municipality where it was a few days ago, a few weeks ago, we had a catastrophic situation that was similar, as it was in Majdanpek, where we heard it, and when I heard it, I didn't believe until it came to me in my community where I came from. We were in big trouble and the municipality of Srljig introduced an emergency on December 7th. By the way, on December 4th, we had a catastrophic situation that the high-voltage network had damaged and where more than the village had lost power. Later, normally as a folk MP, who was always in the service of the people, along with the local self-government, I went to the field where we found a catastrophic situation. So everything fell down, pillars, low-voltage, high-voltage, catastrophic situation. All the villages were cut off and at that point, I thank the ED Svrlig, who is in co-operation with all our neighbours, because such a situation was both in Književec and in the surrounding municipalities, to help solve the problem and to provide electricity to people. When someone says no electricity is needed in our villages, I hear it from some of my colleagues, they say – people don't need electricity because they have wood, they have a stove on wood, they don't need freezers. When I was in the field, it was really a catastrophic situation. The people in the villages need electricity. Workers and power distributions have helped with the people of Prokuplje, their colleagues, and the Serbian Army has included. At this moment, I thank the Serbian Army, who, together with the workers of the electricity industry, came to Svrljag, came to Književac and helped solve truly incredible problems by their engagement. I'm 46 years old and in my life I don't remember what happened, that this amount of ice and snow was on the poles, on the wires, and that something like that happened. + Serbia's army is really what's really worth it to us. They showed their true face, they helped the citizens of our municipality, they helped our agricultural producers, they also gave the army to help dig holes in pillars, they gave people from their medical professions to visit our agricultural producers, our old people who were our villages and who were really in a difficult situation. Our people when they see a uniform they really love it, they appreciate it, because we all know that the pillar of our country has always been and will be an army, an Orthodox Church and a village. So once again I thank the Serbian Army, General Alexander Zivkovic, who, together with the defence minister, was with us in Srlig where we visited our families together, our villages, where we visited the municipality of Književec together where the same situation took place. My question would be for the Ministry of Energy – when will everything return to the previous state and in the right condition to return those pillars of the low voltage network and the high voltage network? I would also have to say, and I have a duty to say that in the Municipality of Svrlig 90% of the pillars of the low voltage network are wooden and that applies to the high voltage network. So the pillars are in very bad shape. In the previous period when I was president of the municipality in 2010, I asked the authorities in the electricity industry to change those pillars because they are very poor. It hasn't been done so far, and I'm sure after this, they'll have a chance to finish it. Otherwise, there are larger parts of the municipality where there is lower voltage, where when people turn on a mill hammer, to grind something, then the current almost goes out. Question – when will we be able to return to those parts of our municipality and put everything in the right way as far as electricity is concerned? I am sure the Elektristok will also have the strength and opportunity to end it. That's why they've been very good to all their field workers. I also have a question for the Ministry of Agriculture. Because at the time of that elemental accident, we had a lot of damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15887	Thank you. You're way out of time. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, we're moving on. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Mirjana Dragas, Dr Miljana Nikolic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Olgica Batic. We continue to work and move on to a principled search on the 6th item of the agenda – A PROPOSAL OF THE IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE IMPLEMENTATION AND IMPLEMENTATION LAW. You have received a bill submitted by a group of 131 MPs, the SNS parliamentary group, and you have received the government's opinion on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, I remind you, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in the principle of parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? The word is Biljana Pantić Pija.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15888	Thank you. Respected National Assembly presidents, co-workers and fellow MPs, when the current law on enforcement and security began to apply in 2011, it introduced some newspapers. One of these newspapers was the establishment of a new judicial profession for private perpetrators. I put myself as someone who daily applies this law, that there are several problematic provisions in the law on enforcement and security, and I hope that they will be the subject of comprehensive amendments to the competent ministry. Certainly, one of these major newspapers, introduced by the Law on Enforcement and Security, as I said, the introduction of private perpetrators, brought improvement in the work of executive proceedings, when many other issues were raised, in which these private perpetrators work. It is true that the introduction of a private enforcement institution has been ordered by the court and that executions are being carried out much faster and that the executive trustee is being charged within a much shorter period. I am free to propose to the Minister of Justice that he consider perhaps a proposal to completely move the execution into the hands of private perpetrators and that the court be totally dissipated from these cases, as we have such legal solutions in certain countries. As for the collection of executive creditors, I will only provide one example to support what I've just said, that the newly-sed basic court has only sent proposals to the debtor's address these days for executions from 2011, a municipal enterprise. However, the provisions of the applicable law on enforcement and security, relating to local jurisdiction and provisions relating to the designation of enforcement officers, have proved very problematic during the application of this law and have created plenty of room for abuse and corruption. I don't want to be maligned, but it's as if the legislator of this law wanted to leave a possibility for individual private executioners to be favored, and there is no violation of any legal norm, but for certain perpetrators to be given jobs, while other perpetrators to close their offices. With this bill, submitted by 131 SNS MPs, I hope that they will stand in the way of self-will by legal persons performing municipal and similar services. Names submitted for amendments to Article 252. The law on enforcement and security where the Executive Trustee says that in order to achieve a monetary claim on the basis of the public and other services performed, which submits a proposal for execution, and before submitting the proposal, he shall apply to the Chamber of Executive to determine the executioner, and that the chamber shall appoint the executing entity within five days and evenly, according to the alphabetical order of their enrolment. Such a proposal is not a big newspaper, because we have a similar solution in the Code of Criminal Procedure, where it is provided for the public prosecutor or the President of the Court of Justice to conduct the proceedings, to set up a defence attorney by official duty, in order to order the list of lawyers delivered by the competent bar of attorney. Also, the provisions of Article 81. The law on litigation has been prescribed that the court will appoint a temporary representative to the defendant, also in line with a list of lawyers supplying the court's competent bar. This legal solution already exists, in other our laws, in which defenses will be appointed under official duty, i.e. temporary agents, and I do not see why this principle would not apply to private perpetrators. So far there has been no criteria for the distribution of cases, but a discretionary right left to the trustee to choose a private contractor himself and there was only a recommendation of a chamber that had no binding fact that the perpetrators were appointed in the light of the even distribution of the case. So far, we have had cases where certain public utility companies favor private contractors, so I have learned in a conversation with my colleagues that during the distribution of the items by a utility company, one executive received 17,000 items in work, and received about 700,000 euros in advance. We also had the "Electro-Vojvodine" case. In all, there are 10,000 items and nearly 8,000 transfers to work in one executive office, and the remaining 2,000 cases are distributed to eight private perpetrators. How is it possible that one executive office can effectively obtain 8,000 items and effectively perform its work and that the other 2,000 items are distributed only to the other eight perpetrators. The executives justified their actions by engaging strictly individual perpetrators for the efficiency of the bill, which I think is non-sen, because any contractor who gets the job will do his job and make the payment, as best as possible for the executive trustee. Like I said, I can't believe that someone who has 8,000 objects will be more effective than the one who has 1,000 or 2,000 items at work. It is clear that certain public companies have allocated a number of cases to a single number of perpetrators, and that this has been possible so far because of the law's indetermination. The adoption of the proposed amendments will pave the way for the self-will of public undertakings providing municipal and other services which will have an obligation to address the chamber of the executing entity which will be obliged to evenly distribute items in the alphabetical order of the registration. The next amendment proposed by this proposal also concerns local jurisdiction. The relevant legal solution that we had was designed to be responsible for the conduct of an enforcer whose area is the residence of the executive trustee. The Code of Criminal Procedure stipulates that a private suit may be brought to court in whose territory the defendant is resident. Also, the Law on litigation provides for a general local jurisdiction, where the court is in charge, in whose territory the defendant is resident. That is why it is not clear to me how someone who has proposed the law in 2011 and who has adopted it could have written that, when we have such legal solutions, the local authority is determined towards the residence of the executive debtor. Due to these legal solutions, which were the exception of general rules, were favored by the perpetrators of larger cities, especially from Belgrade, because most executives had, and today they had their headquarters in Belgrade and larger cities, so some perpetrators had to close their offices from the interior. Another reason for changing the existing legal solution is the principle of economic and efficiency. The question arises how can an executive from Belgrade perform an effective execution in Subotica, instead of doing so by an perpetrator from Subotica? Or, for example, the newly-sad executive, who in the cases of Elektro-Vojvodine, against the debtor of Pancheva, goes out to carry out a list and assess movable things, charges about 5,000 dinars of his expenses, and the executioner from Pancheva would charge that amount for about 1,500 dinars to carry out his trusted job. This way, I will appeal to the Ministry of Justice, led by Minister Selakovic, who has so far shown that he is very successful in fighting the problems of the judiciary that remained after the unfortunate 2010 reform, to also deal with the control of the executioner's city and the executioner's chamber, according to the provisions of Article 346. The law on enforcement and security, in order to improve the work of executioners and chambers in a better way and to prevent abuses in the work of perpetrators and chambers. I think all of these reasons are enough to convince you that in voting day, you're voting for these proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15889	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Peter Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15890	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Reverend Mrs. Pilia, who is the authorised representative of the group of MPs who tabled this bill. Madam President, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk to you in just one minute about the Committee's position, and I'd like to take the time to speak as before the parliamentary group, not to answer again. So, on the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, it was unanimously accepted in the draft amending and supplementing the Law on Enforcement and Security, for the reasons set out in the reasons for amending this law. At the same time, I would like to say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposal for these amendments to the law for the reasons set out in the arguments. We believe that in the current application of this law there has been a lot of illogicalness, but at the same time, in front of the JS parliamentary group, I can say that we cannot bear all the blame for the law that we adopted in 2011, but at the same time, part of the blame must be accepted and those who have determined the perpetrators who will work on the ground should bear it. Namely, in many public utility companies, those who chose and determined who would deal with the execution, i.e. by charging the claims of these utility companies, determined one or possibly two perpetrators and gave them several thousand items. No one forbade them, and the law did not forbid it anywhere that they could determine more perpetrators. For example, if the claims in Vranj or Nis were to give these jobs to those executioners from Vranj, Nis, etc. So it's not just the law's fault, it's the law's fault. That's what we have to say. Because practice is what it is, we had to come into a situation to propose amendments to this law in order to just disable those who gave thousands of cases once or a few perpetrators not to do so in the future, but to give the executions to those perpetrators who will be based on the residence, or the headquarters of the executive debtor, and that's good. However, what we would suggest from JS is to consider and, yes, I would say, some order to the competent in-house and other authorities in public utility companies that many claims that are really small, there are thousands of such claims, are eventually written off or otherwise placed in the possibility of being executed by those debtors, because we have not a small number of cases that the cost of executions has several times exceeded the amounts of those who need to be charged. That's what's causing the executive debtors a big revolution. The people do not understand, or the debtor does not realize that there are tariffs for which the private contractor works and he must collect his service. In any case, where there is a possibility that certain small claims, which will not compromise the business of these municipal systems, are written off, that interest for some claims, although they are done, are written off or reduced to some reasonable extent, because in many cases we have worked and passed laws where we have made interest on certain claims with many creditors and given the opportunity to carry out obligations on wars. All of this should be taken into account in the application of not only this law. This law is certainly good and will speed up the work and ability to collect certain claims from municipal companies, because this is only about those claims concerning the demand for public utility services, such as distribution, plumbing, cleanliness, etc., that I do not add up, we know what this is about. It is good, too, that here is the obligation that the executive trustee must provide the executioner with evidence that he has warned the executive debtor in a manner prescribed by law to carry out his obligation, so that only then can the perpetrator proceed with the payment of the claim. Otherwise, he must, as well as the law provides, reject the proposal to execute. All in all, in this way we will certainly improve the application of the existing law and I am sure and improve and charge where it is possible to collect public municipal obligations. At the same time, I say once again, it would be good to consider whether it is possible and how it is possible that those claims of small public utility companies, in a way, are written off, so that those costs of execution do not exceed several times the costs of obligations that some debtor has towards the trustee. Finally, once again, in the day for the vote, the JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the amendment and addition of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15891	Snezana Malovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15892	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is on the agenda to amend and supplement the law on enforcement and security. I will remind the citizens of Serbia, as well as all of us, that these are the other amendments to this important law that take place this year in this assembly of parliament. I will remind all of us that, at the end of August of this year, amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security have also been proposed and only a few members, as is the case now. Last time, as we will now, we have pointed out that the amendments to the law on enforcement and security that are proposed are necessary, and the proposed changes and additions are in line with modern practice and the needs of natural and legal persons, which are in the process of execution and are unsuccessfully trying to collect their claims. However, the problem is how these changes and complements, as I said, the most important law to implement the enforcement process, which should contribute to the efficiency of the executive procedure on the one hand, but also on the other hand can make it more inert and thus contribute to the non-satisfactory way of doing business. The problem is how these changes and additions are proposed. I would remind you that according to the Minister of Justice, the Ministry of Justice in July 2014 means this year, a working group which, according to the Minister, is tasked with correcting and making more clear the provisions of the law on the general part of the executive procedure and thus establishing a more efficient enforcement system, making the position of the perpetrator clearer. Instead of discussing today the proposal for a working group, the comprehensive amendments and additions to this important law, we are discussing the amendment of a member that I say is both necessary and necessary and who is the promoter of one parliamentary group. Although it is only about changing one member, the law on enforcement and security, it is impossible and it is necessary not to look at the overall enforcement procedure that is happening in Serbia today in a two-way way, means by the court or by the perpetrators, the person to whom the state has transferred certain public powers. As far as courts are concerned, we can freely assess that the enforcement procedure within the courts does not work in a satisfactory manner, despite the adoption of a completely new law on enforcement and security adopted in 2011 and which was intended to contribute to the efficiency of the enforcement procedure by the court, but also in general the enforcement procedure and therefore the perpetrators were introduced. A reasonable question arises – why is this not achieved? In my opinion and the position of the Social Democratic Party, the first reason is the absence of control. In the proceedings under appeal, the only legal remedy in the executive procedure, the court is obliged to take a decision on appeal within three days without prejudice to whether enforcement is determined by the executing authority or by the court. If the acting judge does not make a decision within the legal period under the Law on Enforcement and Security, it is believed that the judge is not acting in a safe and effective manner. I claim that today there are cases in the process of enforcement under appeal where no decision has been made for more than two years. That is the case, for example, at the First Basic Court in Belgrade. Also, clarity is not known that the responsibility also works on the collection of debt by providing multimillion-dollar loans to long-standing persons in criminal proceedings due to bank damage, bearing and inefficient work, both by the executive and the bankruptcy court. We're not aware that their work has been investigated as well. Then, the question of the even distribution of objects is raised. When a network of courts in Serbia was changed at the end of last year, it was said to be done also because of a fair distribution of cases. Thus, the Belgrade Executive Department was formed for all three basic courts in Belgrade operating in the territory of this city. There used to be one, the First Basic Court, and now there are three basic courts, the First, the Second and the Third, and each of these courts has its own executive department, which cut off the longstanding tradition that there is an executive department on Belgrade's territory. I remind you that when there were five Belgrade courts, there was only one executive department operating within the Fourth Court. To this day, we do not know what was the reason for forming an executive department in each of these courts. What's that got to do with it? There have been cases at the level of the First Court of First Instance around 19,000, more than 19,000, while at the level of the Third Fundamental Court there are slightly more than 10,000 cases, which means that within the Court of First Fundamental Court, we have twice as many cases as the third basic court has in its work, which means that the trustee who has his claim for which the First Fundamental Court is responsible will be charged much faster than the trustee who has his claim in charge of the Third Fundamental Court. The very important issue that is raised here is about the work of the perpetrators and the control relationship towards the perpetrators. I believe that the public should be informed of the problems encountered on the route of the Chamber of Conductors and the Ministry of Justice and that we should get an answer as to why the Chamber of Executive pulled its representatives out of the Ministry's working groups at one point. We should also be informed whether there are problems in the work group formed by the Ministry of Justice. Then the question arises as to how the work of the perpetrators is being evaluated today and how cases have been shared so far, which is also highlighted as the reason for the submission of the amendment and addition of the Law on Implementation and Security. So how do you divide objects into public-communal enterprises? In public, apostrophetic cases in which individual executive offices received tens of thousands of cases, while most of the perpetrators from the territory did not receive any items. I'm asking the question today – how are the articles of Infostan or Parking Services distributed when there is no rules on the evaluation of the performance of the contractor? Then what is more important – who controls the work of the doer? By law, this should be done by the Chamber of Conductors and the Ministry of Justice. As far as I am aware, the Commission does not function within the Chamber of Executives, but neither does the Disciplinary Commission within the Ministry of Justice, nor has it been decided by the cases and procedures initiated by the Chamber of Conductors against certain perpetrators. I hope that will be done in the next period. Secondly, it is more than evident that there is unequal practice and that operators charge different charges for the same services, which I find inadmissible. Minister Selakovic himself pointed out this in July of this year at the 10th European Forum for the Promotion of Government of Law and said that in the application of the applicable Law on Implementation and Security, numerous shortcomings have been identified concerning the responsibility of the perpetrator in the precision of easier and more serious disciplinary injuries, the keeping of messy records, as well as the inequality of practices in the adoption of acts. I hope these anomalies are removed, too. On that occasion, the minister announced the need to make the position of the perpetrator clearer. Instead, in the middle of this year, six perpetrators were appointed for Belgrade's territory outside the Regulation that regulates the number of perpetrators brought by the minister himself. For these, as well as other reasons concerning the problem in the work of the perpetrators, we believe that it is necessary to take full account of the problems that have arisen in practice both in the application of the Law on Implementation and Security, and in the necessary amendments and additions to this law. Instead, as I pointed out, we are today discussing the amendment of one member, and three months ago we discussed the amendment of a few members of the law on enforcement and security. As far as the amendments proposed are concerned, we support an intensification on the even distribution of items related to the enforcement of credible documents in municipal and similar matters where the trustee is a public utility due to the problems that occurred in practice, as a result of the absence of the rules on the evaluation of the performance of the perpetrators. We think it's celibate to prescribe it by law. In this regard, I am having a dilemma as to whether this provision can also apply to matters concerning the provision of municipal and similar services where the trustee is a legal person with majority private capital, since the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees the freedom of entrepreneurship, and hence the free choice of persons with public powers such as perpetrators or lawyers, which it wants to co-operate with. We'll discuss this in the amendments closer. Then we consider the following intensities of the bill's proposal that this provision is not fully written and therefore we urge you to look at the amendment that we have proposed in this regard. We believe that there should be an even distribution of cases where the executive debtor is the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, such cases are many and the Court of First Instance sent a letter to the Chamber to inform them of these proceedings, as there is a double charge before the court and by the perpetrators themselves, because there is a disposition of the trustee in such cases, by which they will collect their claim whether through the executioner or through the court. If the distribution of such cases is not done through the Chamber, the question arises as to how the exchange of information between the Chamber and the court will take place and how the abuses will be prevented. This is how I claim it will. Therefore, as I said, we urge this amendment to be accepted because it is in the interest of protecting the legal order and functioning of the integrity of the state system. Finally, I ask the question whether there was a problem in the Chamber of Executives, since for the second time the Chamber of Executives had failed to come together and failed to hold a session, given that there was no quorum and therefore the question arises whether they would be able to adopt an act on the basis of which an even distribution of the case should be carried out. Therefore, we have proposed an amendment that this act should be adopted by the Ministry of Justice with the consent of the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15893	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15894	Thank you, President. At the very beginning of the discussion on the proposed amendments to the law on enforcement and security on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would point out that our parliamentary group in the voting day will unreservedly support this proposal, of course, with certain suggestions and with certain proposals that can only contribute to improving the quality of these amendments and amendments, or additions. I would ask my esteemed colleague Biljana Pantic to take a careful look at all the things we will most well-intentionedly point out that in full capacity and in the best possible way, we could show to the citizens that legislation must be as it is in the best interests of the citizens, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that this implies the introduction of order. The proposed amendments and additions shall finally introduce order into one stage of execution and that stage of execution in which private perpetrators are engaged. We in the SPS parliamentary group must point out something that is more than clear to everyone, which is that it has waited too long for such a proposal to appear in the assembly procedure on amendments to the law. Why? Well, this problem was identified over a year ago and over a year ago this problem we were able to identify exactly the same way we're identifying it today. Indeed, the most factually well-founded and fully respected colleague Biljana Pantic has exhibited numerous examples of protectionism. Unfortunately, in over a year, that protectionism has multiplied. We've allowed enormous wealth to be made to private perpetrators. We allowed it because we didn't adopt these changes and supplements in time and we had more opportunities. We have allowed individual perpetrators to be rich by several tens of thousands of euros. We have allowed even formal and legal discrimination against private perpetrators to be established, and we have allowed, unfortunately, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliaments to behave despotically in each situation, by hiring one and the same perpetrator. Finally, on the basis of all that the esteemed colleague Pantic pointed out, there is no necessity, no necessity, but an imperative for such harmful divisions to stand in the way. Unfortunately, we never seem to have covered it, but it is also impossible, frankly, to cover literally all situations in which legal, or systemic, response must be made. After all, no law has done so far, and it may not be this one, but at least we can contribute to the fact that the Corps situation in which such harmful actions occur in some way involves, or to warn something that has happened so far as is harmful. Why am I pointing this out? First of all, we in the SPS parliamentary group believe that the existing proposed changes should be complemented, due to some ambiguities and the possibility of individual undefined terms and broad interpretations, and that something in practice that implies unequal behaviour, i.e. actions that can cause further harmful consequences. Namely, in Article 252 paragraph 1, the proposed amendments state what needs to be said, that the executive trustee must undertake that, before submitting a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible document, in order to achieve a monetary claim on the basis of the services provided, he first asks the chamber to determine the chamber of the executioner, but here there is, dear colleague Pantic, an undefined concept, which is that these are communal and similar services. Similar services are a very broad term. Similar services mean quite a large, or rather broad interpretation, which can cause unequal practice by the perpetrators, and even to reject proposals for executions there and where it should not appear. That is why we in the SPS parliamentary group believe that this term should be evicted and that it needs to be made more clear and more precise and say that these are services from public and public-communal businesses' activities, not similar services. Why? Because the determinants, generators, such discriminatory phenomena, these adverse phenomena were precisely public-communal enterprises, or their leaderships, which, on the principle of nepotism, were determined by the same perpetrators on the principle of friendly and best-ranking and other relationships. I don't want to accuse anything without a basis, because we've never done it in the SPS parliamentary group, and there may be indications of other species or even criminal activity. What should be specified, dear colleague Pantic, is a deadline within which the chamber is required to respond to the executive trustee on his request to determine the perpetrator. This deadline has been defined by the proposer as a five-day deadline. I think it's too short a deadline, too short a deadline for a simple reason, because we have a lot of public and public-communal enterprises. We have situations where the chamber will be burdened by a huge number of laws. The chamber no doubt has the capacity to respond to these demands for such a short period of time. In the chamber, they need to be institutionalised, and even legally covered by those categories of bodies, bodies, whatever, which should, in the professional sense, be said to solve, process and respond according to these requirements. In this respect, the minimum or most minor deadline, which at the same time represents a combination with the provisions of the Law on Implementation and Security, is a five-day deadline, and we know in practice that it is eight days, so we, in the SPS parliamentary group, recognize and offer it in the amendment, to make this deadline longer, not much, in any case, the smallest possible deadline. At the same time, we come into a situation where we don't have different deadlines precisely in the law in which we intervene, which is the law on enforcement and security, where the deadline is defined precisely for five working days. In the end, what is here, essentially, dear colleague Pantic, is next. We left here another discretionary right to the executive trustee, we can't do that, discretionary law in case the chamber doesn't respond as requested. He again has discretion to determine the perpetrator by his free definition. What have we achieved? They reached out to the director again to call his friend, his godfather, his cousin, the executioner, to give him another thousand, tens of thousands of objects. We're going back into a vicious circle. This vicious circle, when we pass this law, can't exist, can't exist because of citizens, can't exist because of executive creditors, can't exist because of executive debtors. In the amendment, we tried to warn, to improve the quality of this member in the following way, by saying that if the chamber does not respond at the request of the executive trustee, to determine the enforcer, that in this situation the executive trustee can determine the perpetrator, but not the one he has previously designated. What does that mean? This means that it must always be the new enforcer, not the one who already has the items, not the one who has already acquired certain benefits and benefits, and we have seen from your exposure that they have achieved. Therefore, I ask you to respect this very amendment, consider and to be one of the ways, of course, not the best, of course, for this situation perhaps not to the extent that we want it to be effective, but it is certainly one way that it can until the final version of the law on enforcement and security, which is being prepared and which, hopefully, will soon be in the congregation procedure, be one of the solutions. Also, what is very important to point out is the fact that even in the following provisions of the amendments just proposed in Article 252 is the obligation, which is welcomed by the MP's SPS group, to reject the request of the executive trustee in the event that he did not provide the executioner with evidence that the chamber had responded, that the chamber had not responded on request, and also evidence that it had not been determined before by the perpetrator Pera Peric, who would always be one and the same enforcer. Then we come into a situation of discrimination against other perpetrators, the privilege of certain, what you rightly, well-founded and reasonedly pointed out. With that in mind, given all that I have pointed out, I ask you to consider the amendment that we have submitted and that, first of all, on the Justice Committee, we assess these extremely well-intentioned suggestions with a positive and that we implement them, i.e. by adopting them, by improving the quality of the law. Of course, that we in the SPS parliamentary group want to look back on something that you have looked back on yourself, because we want to help the government of the Republic of Serbia, which, in some experimental sense, seeks to make legal arrangements, legal regulation is at what is meant by the satisfaction of citizens through good laws. Therefore, we welcome the intensities to be gradually, and, of course, systematically, the executions with the executioners in the courts are transferred to private perpetrators. But let's be completely open, realistic and honest, until the full law of execution is passed we won't be able to do it for the simple reason that not only have we not systematically prepared one such situation that we can cover by law, but also because the chamber of executioners isn't prepared for such a thing. Criticisms directed to the executioner's chamber are in place so that he does not react disciplinaryly to the situations in which he should react, that what is said here seems to be done. It's about bankruptcy. I have to point out something that stands out, that they're just economic courts, and that can be a good example, that problem solved by the bankruptcy managers choosing on the basis of algorithms, and at the same time there's one central and centralized database with all the necessary characteristics of all bankruptcy managers. Why could this not be applied by analog means even when the perpetrators are involved? All we have to do is set it up and systemically solve it. Of course, there are other intensities that you have pointed out and that we in the SPS parliamentary group strongly support, which is that when the new law is passed on enforcement and security, the executive procedure is made as effective as possible. It is also necessary to consider the introduction, i.e. the return of the appeal as a legal remedy in the executive procedure, because the elimination of this legal remedy has become a ballast for courts. Let's be completely open and honest -- we have this problem in first-degree courts when it comes to executions several years ago, and since 2010, even before, and since 2008, and even before, the problem had to be systematically addressed earlier. So the criticisms that apply only to this period, the period when we bring amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security, when we try to compare this law to the needs, to satisfy the interests of the executive trustee, to the inability of the excessive burden on the executive debtor, we do so in a way that, after everything that has happened in the judiciary, is only possible. The judiciary also carries a mortgage, under the name of the job's blockade, precisely because it is the highest degree of inefficiency in executive procedures, which has been carried out for several years. But it's not since yesterday, it's not a year ago, two years ago, it's from five, six and ten years ago. This problem exists and this problem must be addressed, but as I said earlier – systemically. Dear counterpart Pantic, we should propose to our resolute ministry, which is the Ministry of Justice, that we make certain changes in other fields to which this law applies. We in the SPS parliamentary group believe that one of the significant changes should also be the protection of interests in some way by the executive debtor. For public sales reasons, the starting price on public sales is not 100%, not total value, not market value, but 60% of market value, and after the failure of public sales, that value of immovable property is down to 30%. You can imagine the position of the executive debtor in which the immovableity of the depreciation will be sold, in order to collect claims that are significantly less valuable, significantly less than the value of its immovableity. As a result, we Socialists believe that this must react and that this reaction and intervention must follow right through the final law, that the last price of immovableity must not be below 50% in relation to the market. In the end, what is important is that with these changes and additions, we have raised a question that has been unsettled for a long time, which, in some ways, will make it impossible to mix, not entirely, we have to endure it until the end. I hope that, in the future text of the law, we will have clear provisions on the functioning of the Chamber, on its organs, on a disciplinary procedure that must be applied to perpetrators who commit violations in their work, who are committing violations of the law, violations of the rules of the Chamber, and that the future law must very clearly and precisely define it. In any case, I sincerely hope, and all of us in the SPS parliamentary group, that these, I repeat, are the most well-meaning suggestions, and that we will all together in the voting day support the very quality and good, for this situation, because otherwise we cannot, amend and supplement the law on enforcement and security. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15895	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15896	Madam President, dear fellow Members of the People, the distinguished colleague of Pilia, who you are proposing in front of a group of MPs of these amendments to the Law, I must say that your proposal is an amendment to the law on enforcement and security on a good footing. Why? Because you yourself in yours, I'd say, with a very precise presentation, you've presented a series of shortcomings that the current solutions are causing in the field of enforcement. Especially in the case of abuses that occur when the collection of claims from public-communal enterprises and public enterprises occurs in many places, but mostly in Novi Sad and Belgrade. In any case, I am pleased that you, regardless of what the majority proposal is, therefore, SNS and other MPs, have seen these shortcomings that are daily, abuses and, I would even say that there may be elements of the crime. That's what you said and I confirm. So, I think it's a shame that the government didn't propose this on its own, but I understand that there are very serious obstacles and problems that Minister Selakovic faces in his daily work, and therefore in the very proposal that would correct the shortcomings that exist now. We heard a very substantial exhibition and colleagues Malovic and some other colleagues here who explained in detail what the problem is. I'm really not going to waste too much time, I'm just going to supplement that picture that you sketched in your initial exposure to the abuses that exist. So, it is true, you have said very precisely that there are some perpetrators who have 17, 18 thousand items which, to be precise, are determined by the deputy director of "Electrodistribution Belgrade" to one executive from the list of perpetrators. It's Mrs. Isidora Rankovic. You have the same information since I assume that the people of the Chamber delivered it to you, as well as to me. That's a really amazing piece of information. It is a matter of 18,861 subject matter only to one executive who has been pre-exemptly paid to the lady of 75 million 589 thousand etc. The dinar. That's what you said. I agree with you, this is scandalous. There are other similar examples, although not with that amount, Mr. Mihajlo Dragovic paid 18 million dinars in advance for some 4,500 items. The others have between 100 and 200 objects. There are over 3,000 items, but more or less, these are the most visible figures, with the mah "Electrodistributions of Belgrade". Until it's systemically resolved by introducing a new company into the EPS system, you know. I have to look back on this. Here we have a clear example of the arbitrary selective determination of the perpetrators to carry out executions according to claims for certain public utility companies in Serbia. It's about a number of people who get the most profitable, the most lucrative items in the high number, and for these cases they're predominantly getting millions in dinars. That's what citizens need to know. What they also need to know is, what is behind the proposal that Honorable colleague Pilya proposes this law? Because Minister Selakovic has, I think, doubt that, and I wish that was not so, a certain systemic problem and an obstacle within the framework of the government's proposal itself. That's what Mrs. Pilia knows. I would like to make it clear that there are two institutions in the government that can help or help to make such a proposal - one is the Secretary-General of the Government, and the other is the President of the Legislative Committee of the Government. It is Mr Novak Nedic and Mr Dejan Djurdjevic. The two of them can help or make it impossible to bring... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Is this the topic of the agenda? I'm explaining, there's no need. ... the adoption of this proposal for a law. So why didn't the government, through the assistance of these two personalities, try to... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: This is not a topic. ) Why is that not a subject? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15897	Please, since I'm being handed over by Ambassador Martinovic, I'll give you your time. Here, you want to take your word for it? (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Just asking if this is the topic of the agenda? Can't just a microphone, I don't really understand throwing. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15898	Excuse me, Madam President, if I have caused this misunderstanding. So, I don't know what's making her nervous? I explain the process of adopting, adopting acts in the government, which can be implemented with the assistance of Mr Djurdjevic and Mr Novak Nedic. That system for my unknown reason has been avoided here, i.e. they did not come to them, and now we have a parliamentary group who proposes it in the Assembly. Citizens need to understand that. I don't know, I was told in the Executive Chamber that Mr Novak Nedic and Mr Dejan Djurdjevic may have something to do with the determination that the perpetrators receive from the cases and that therefore they block the adoption of this proposal through the process in the government. That's why I support you, because what you did is a good suggestion for me because he's on the right track. He has one flaw that we will try to correct through the amendments, and that lack concerns the very determination of who will be the perpetrator of a particular case. You suggested that it be done by the execution chamber. We agree with that, only we would have added through the amendment process so that it would not be in alphabetical order because it seems to us that in the alphabetical order to determine the perpetrators can be discriminatory. That's why we're proposing through the amendments, and I hope that you will respect that proposal, that it is done in two ways. One, either through the public procurement process or through a computer program that, I say, would indiscriminately evict the executioners for certain items. I think we're on to something. I think you're very well aware of what the problem is, that this problem didn't arise yesterday, that this problem has been going on for too long, that there's a reasonable doubt that certain perpetrators through this process of privileged getting jobs in thousands of amounts of cases that perform certain services for a certain group of people and it's possible, as Mrs. Pilja herself said, that there are elements of serious abuses and perhaps criminal acts. (Biljana Pantic Pija, from the scene: I did not say crimes. I'm sorry. You didn't say crimes, here I say. So, I'm just sorry that most of this law changes second time and then a couple of members. I think there are grounds for him, in one sense, to change legislatively through a single swing. So, that this practice that works, this privileged giving to certain perpetrators to do their job through a large number of cases and pre-profit multimillion-dollar amounts has been going on around since mid-2013, from the moment of effective start of work of the contractors first elected in July 2012. I'm talking about efficiency now and the moment of their election. Since September, a certain number of performers have received the most massive, the best paid number of items from public-communal companies "Parking services", "Information" in Novi Sad, etc. There are also very involved "Third Serbia" and these two government gentlemen have been involved, and everyone knows it, and that's how many jobs are financed that maybe shouldn't be financed. I must say, I am sorry that there is no effective control over the work of the perpetrators, and not one measure so far has been expressed against any perpetrators, not one so far, and I am sorry that this is happening and I hope that the Chamber and the Ministry of Justice will find a way to solve this problem. Please, Mrs. Pilia, to consider, you don't have to respect or accept, but at least consider, ours indeed, it seems to me, in good faith, and to a good extent, to make a proposal for the perpetrators to choose through the public procurement process in order to make these abuses that exist now... In order for citizens to understand, at this point, the core directors of public enterprises determine who will be the enforcer. These directors of public enterprises, somebody let them know who to pick. The one who alerts them is obviously the political force between the perpetrators, the lucrative work and the execution process itself, and everyone knows it in Serbia. It's similar with notaries, but it's not a subject. Please, now that we've come into play together and now we see, the same problem between you and me and what's going on here, let's try to further specify that people who are chosen to execute certain items are chosen in a way that won't be discriminatory and who won't favour anyone and who will further democratisation and create a process of selecting the perpetrators in Serbia. It can be through the process of public procurement or a little more expensive, more complicated initially, at first, and it's a process for these computer people to choose, that no one can favor anyone as it is happening now. Please, you said that nearly 76 million dinars, you said, I think, and the amount in euros, it's just "Electro-distribution Belgrade". Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what happens in Parking Service, Informatics and all other types of so-called "Informatics". United charges that exist in the New Sad. These are terrible things and then someone wonders how the Third Serbia coalition partner of the SNS can pay for newspaper articles, big posters, posters, billboards. Here's how, to accuse people of a coup, etc., but it's not a topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15899	Don't spread the subject. That's what my colleague asked me, so we'll wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15900	I'm sorry. However, what is very interesting and that Mrs. Pilja knows, and I wish it were not true, of course, in question form – how is it possible for Mrs. Rankovic to receive nearly 18,000 items only from the "Electrodistribution of Belgrade"? I know Mrs. Rankovic's husband was once in the DS. I know that, but I also saw him taking a picture with Minister Selakovic here when they were lawyers and I heard he was with the SNS. Whether it's true or not, I don't know, and I wish it wasn't true because if it's true, then that man is. to say one broader political...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15901	Please, my manners are that we don't talk about relatives or anyone who does some public work, not to talk about husbands, women, sisters, brothers. We'll go a long way. Accept my suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15902	I couldn't agree more, but it's a matter of law. This isn't a thing I'm making up. The law defines this as related matters, if we're going to talk about the law, if we have to talk about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15903	Don't let us get into a situation like this so we can start talking about family. These are painful topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15904	This is doubt, not the suspicion I'm bringing here. This is the question I'm asking. This is a question whose answer I'm afraid of and this is a question I believe Mrs. Pilia has no answer, but maybe someone has someone who's had an arbitration moment from the executive and party authorities so far determined who will be the executioner. This is your proposal, Mrs. Pilja, and all other honourable fellow MPs should be stopped in Serbia. I think you're on a good track, and that's why I'm bravely looking you in the eye and telling you that you're on the right track. Please further specify that we should disable what is happening in Serbia today over the last two years. Please and I think that, if you respect, you will do so through the acceptance of our amendment that we have submitted to Mrs Martinović and I, that through the process of public procurement, determine which contractor will be for which object or possibly if you prefer it or if it is more realistic, you are certainly more professional in this regard, to do so through the software process indeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15905	The word is Biljana Pantić Pija. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, Biljana. For the second time, your colleagues are holding you back. According to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: How can I stop someone when I answered ten minutes ago? I really don't understand. Do you want to answer it because you just said you're answering the Rules of Procedure or you don't want to answer it. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: I will not deny the right of my colleague to speak.) Here you go, Biljana.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15906	Thank you. The previous speaker agreed with the flaw, and I'm glad about that. He said there was a series of problems with this law. Of course, but this law was written by Mr. Stefanovic's party in 2011. They adopted him. They did not then adopt such proposals as we now propose. So, Mr. Stefanovic's party made such a law in 2011 that individual perpetrators can do the job in the way they do and that there are no elements of the crime. It is not because it is not prescribed that someone has to appoint someone as an enforcer, but that discretion is left to me and I just don't understand how Mr. Stefanovic knows what I know, as if he has some parapsychological ability or something to know how I think and what's going on in the Serbian government. I don't think it was a subject and you were obliged to warn him on time. As for the Chamber of Executive, President of the Chamber of Executive is a respected member of the DS, Mr. Mihajlo Dragovic, and then the same question arises – what did DS then do when she passed such a law, when she asked the President of the Chamber? Why didn't they do something to prevent the abuses we now have and that are in accordance with the law? However, when we look at it, we don't have any sanctions for some director of a public or public-communal company setting up an executor and giving him a job of 700 000 euros, 500 000 euros or whatever. We don't like it, though, but that's the way it is. So Mr. Stefanovic's party, when she cheered and dressed and destroyed the judiciary, was supposed to take care of it in 2010 and 2011, not now to say that Minister Selakovic or someone else is guilty of this now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15907	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15908	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I think it's a notorious fact that the DS has written the law, but the DS has not elected directors of public enterprises without competition. That's all of them, to put under quotes, your directors, who give 75 million dinars of advances. These are your directors. It's an advance of 75 million dinars. After all, the law was written by USAID and judges who are present today in the task force and who are experts in the area mentioned today. USAID, Ambassador Kirby, Aleksandar Vukic is Serbia's largest reformer, completed a quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15909	How did we get to the American ambassador now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15910	I'm explaining when he wrote the law. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: What does that mean? So, USAID, there you go. I must say, I'm sorry you're unnecessarily going back to who wrote the law. Every law is written with goodwill. It's written to change a certain area of social life. People when they write and make laws and propose them to the Assembly for adoption, they don't always think about what happens with the written document. They can't even imagine there's going to be this kind of abuse that's happening right now. So that doesn't give rise to responsibility for abuses with perpetrators in the last, let's say, not to be mean, a year and a half. I don't understand why you're going back to who wrote the law now. You know who wrote everything in the Constitution, so we stick to the Constitution and somebody doesn't. It's completely irrelevant. I ask you, since you and I are looking in the same direction and looking at the same problem, exactly the same, where did the Democratic Party now appear in the conversation? Really unnecessary. You have your directors who give your executioners huge money. That's what you tell me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15911	Thank you, MP. The word has Biljana Pantić Pija, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15912	I'll just have one sentence. This law was passed by most in 2011. Apparently, the majority who adopted such a law at the time thought that they would be the next 10, 15, for the rest of their lives in power, so that they could apply the law, because they had their directors, their perpetrators, who were not the same in competition. Let us remember what was done in Novi Sad while the Mayor Pavlicic was, so we do not go into details about it now, but I am glad that we agree and that obviously Mr. Stefanovic's party will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15913	We're closing a circle of replicas. Is anyone else answering for word? (No) We're moving on to the list. The first speaker is MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15914	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mrs Biljana Pantic, SPO and DHSS will surely support these amendments and additions to the Law on Implementation and Security, but we will take this opportunity, in addition to these changes and additions, to say what is necessary in the opinion of our parliamentary group in these areas. I think it was also necessary to carry out one analysis of the current effect of implementing the law on enforcement and security, because I belong to a group of MPs who, with great optimism, expected a new law on enforcement and the introduction of private perpetrators. Those analyses we had the opportunity to see show much greater efficiency in the work of private perpetrators compared to the perpetrators in the court, i.e. the judicial perpetrators. Clearly, it is a more serious and responsible relationship and a motive for greater profit. Mrs Pantic has located a very precise problem, and all the parliamentary groups have agreed on it. However, what we want to do, in order not to undermine the system at the end of the term of office of this government and this Assembly again in one vicious circle, that there are some hoodlums from our ranks or outside our ranks, abuse the application of the law, etc., I think it was necessary to state at least in these most drastic cases that the directors of the law abuses by name and last name, which the perpetrators were privileged, even those of the most extreme cases, and which are public utility companies, may be mentioned, and may not, which they favored obviously. If they haven't broken the law, if there's nothing called a luxuriant motive, in any case they've violated ethical norms, they've misused the law and in any case they should bear political responsibility and, in my opinion, they should lose their functions. Now, all by system -- there are some undefined people breaking the law, I don't think it's enough step and step to the end. For what? Of course, this society is, I've talked about it in all the previous National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that's why we found ourselves on the SNS list as a coalition partner in previous elections, we still felt that the degree of corruption and criminalisation of this society is insufferable. The Serbian Progressive Party and Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic are the first political party to go to a decisive fight against crime and corruption after the recovery of the multilaterals. But in order for the job to end, everyone in the segment of their operation must contribute to it. If we have a ruling majority of people who, I don't really know who the directors are, I didn't do it, but what if it's the directors who named the ruling furniture? Then their responsibility is greater, because in this campaign, now that they have to contribute to the fight against corruption, they seem to be doing me some opposite work. I think this suggestion of mine is truly the most well-intentioned. On the other hand, I agree with the estimates that the law on enforcement and security when we passed it in a legal and normative sense was a good solution, that Belgrade as a two-million-dollar city had only one executive court, which was the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade, that the positive effects of this law were certainly dominant in relation to its negative effects and that we on our part would make a constructive contribution to all the negative effects of applying this law being thrown out of its future application. In order to do so, we really need a comprehensive analysis of the effects of the application of these laws and to locate the problem that would be corrected in a special way. Another key thing is the functioning of the Executive Chamber. It is obvious that this law was not properly prescribed by the rules of operation of the Chamber. We now have a situation that often the operation of this Chamber of Executives, as one important body for the work of private perpetrators, is either ineffective or not adhered to certain rules, and primarily ethical ones. What's certainly good is that the SNS recognized the problem, that it was going to solve it. What we're looking for in front of our parliamentary group is that this problem is solved to the end. I'm going to give you an example that I've recently heard of in a conversation with the very relevant representatives of the government of Australia. They were even forced for the last ten, 15 years in Australia to amend many laws, because they had a lot of immigrants, primarily from these areas, Italy and Greece, who saw in each application of the law how to do the opposite, or how to abuse the law. It's certainly a picture, perhaps in some way, of mentality and relation to the application of the law, which also has deep negative roots here. That's why I'm saying, we're sure to uphold this law. It's a good thing the SNS recognized the real problem, it's a good thing the monopolies that currently exist in private contractors are eliminated in this way, but I think this business should go to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15915	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15916	Thank you. Dear Presidents, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, since the amendment and supplemental of the Law on the execution and security of the SNS parliamentary group, so the party who very insists that it is a pillar of the fight against corruption, surprised me that the proposed amendments and additions are actually proposed solutions that instead of preventing, actually favour corruption in the area of enforcement. According to the now applicable Law on Implementation and Security, the Executive Trustee chooses an enforcer who will be entrusted with the execution on the basis of a credible instrument for the collection of municipal services. Today, we are considering a proposal from the SNS parliamentary group that the executive trustee does not determine the executioner himself, but is obliged to address the Chamber of Executors who, according to the alphabet order and residence, or the residence of the debtor, determines the perpetrator to act in a concrete procedure. What surprises me is the fact that the SNS parliamentary group has completely disregarded the current Public Procurement Act, which is precisely the parliamentary group and supported in this Assembly and which has praised so much as a revolutionary turning point in the fight against corruption. About that, I have to ask a question. If this law on public procurement is as good as you praised it, then why are you avoiding its application in this case? Why do I think it is necessary in the event of an election of executioners to apply the Public Procurement Act? Because here we are talking about monetary claims based on utility and similar services which are solely for perpetrators. If we start with the fact that municipal and similar services are provided in Serbia mainly by public and public-communal enterprises, which are budgetary users, then it is clear that the contracting authorities are defined in Article 2. Public procurement laws. Therefore, there is no freedom to interpret what is to be considered an orderr, which is not, explicitly prescribed by the Public Procurement Act and who is obliged to apply it unconditionally. On the other hand, the perpetrators exercise public authority, but they perform their activity either as entrepreneurs or as members of a company and as such represent a school example of the bidder, again in line with the definitions contained in the Public Procurement Act. That the above is precisely confirmed by the public procurement law itself, which stated in Article 7, which type of goods and services is exempt from public procurement, where neither explicitly nor indirectly stated the service of the executioner, or legal service, as something to be exempt from the procurement procedure. Since you brought this law on public procurement, that you wanted to exempt that kind of service, you could. For example, in Article 7(1), point (8), you explicitly exempt public procurement services from the procurement process. There is then no dilemma as to how public notebooks are chosen, if the need for public notebook services has budget users, but you did not exclude the perpetrators and there is no excuse why the selection of the executioner is not carried out after the procurement procedure and not through the Chamber of Executives. When you say that the Chamber determines the perpetrators, it is not only unscheduled, in the sense that it does not know who the trustee is talking to, whether he is talking to the chamber executive committee, which is the body that takes care of the business of the Chamber, or whether he is talking to the President of the Chamber, which is a pretty risky solution, that only one man decides to choose an executioner for all of Serbia, again without any control. When you say that the Chamber is obliged to appoint an executor within five days, and if it does not, then the executive trustee chooses an executor in whose area the executive debtor has his residence, I ask you, what happens if the debtor has a residence in an area where there is no perpetrator, or because he is not appointed, or because he is appointed so relieved, retired and so on? Do you then understand the position of the executive trustee in that case? When the proposer, in the light of this law, says that individual perpetrators have a large number of cases, and that others have a negligiblely small number of cases, well, the Proposer wants these changes to achieve a fair and even distribution of the case, you seem to ignore one basic fact, which is that the executive procedure does not exist because of the perpetrators. There is an executive procedure because of the executive trustee and the executive debtor. The Executive Trustee is a person whose claim is made in the enforcement process and it is clear that it is his interest to carry out the procedure quickly and efficiently, with absolutely no need to be interested in the alphabetical order of the perpetrators, but how it will come to the executioner who will in the fastest and cheapest way to collect his claim. The executive debtor, on the other hand, is the person to whom the claim is being made and it is clear that he should not be interested in the alphabetical order of the executioner, but only to respect his rights in the exercise process, in particular his right to object, and that no single dinar is charged more than what he owes. If you really want to achieve equal treatment for all perpetrators, then the only way is to introduce them into the public procurement system. And you yourself, as I said, were saying that the Public Procurement Act is revolutionaryly good, that it narrows down corruption to a minimum, and that means there's no real reason not to apply it in this case. For example, legal services are also subject to public procurement, although the relationship between a lawyer and his client is primarily a relationship of trust, not a relationship of price and other conditions. Now, if lawyers compete with each other in the public procurement process, not only in terms of price, but also in terms of other conditions they provide and try to deliver the most favourable offer, the lawyer who delivers the most favourable offer gets the job. That's how it's supposed to be with the perpetrators. No problem is that one who delivers a better offer gets a job and one who otherwise delivers good offers or better offers to have more work than others. I don't understand the need to introduce an escalator through this law or through the operation of the chamber. I suggest you create conditions for a fair and transparent match between the perpetrators, which will be good for the perpetrators, but also for the trustees and executive debtors. In your explanation, you pulled a parallel between your proposal to determine the perpetrator of the Chamber and the Code of Criminal Procedure in the case of determining defenders under official duty. That comparison is absolutely unacceptable. First, because the accused in criminal proceedings is not at all in his position, rights and obligations of any point of contact with the accused in criminal proceedings. The other thing, blamed in criminal proceedings in the event of a mandatory defense, has the prior possibility that I choose any defender you want, and you, the executive trustee, with your proposal, deny that right. And the third thing, when a defense attorney is appointed under official duty, it is done on the basis of a list delivered by the Bar, but the Attorney's Office does not automatically place all the lawyers who are listed in the register at the competent bar. It takes terrible care of this, of the expertise and of the professional work of a lawyer who must be such as to guarantee the existence of assumptions for successful defence. Takes care of the lawyer's internship in law enforcement and what's particularly important is that this list of defense attorneys is officially public. So it's published on both the website and the attorney's office and the court's advertising board. All these conditions you've failed to determine for the perpetrators. On the other hand, if I were to accept this proposal of yours, I ask you, where are the guarantees and who is in control of the fact that the Chamber will really respect the alphabet order? Is it realistic to expect that the executor belonging to that chamber in case you question the respect of the alphabet order by that Chamber will report the same to the Ministry. And now, even if he did report that even if the ministry found that there were irregularities in the selection of perpetrators and that the alphabet order was not respected, what would happen in that case? Will you undo the assignment of the case, which would only be normal in the situation if there were any irregularities? If you will cancel the assignment of a subject who suffers the consequences, the executive trustee and the debtor shall neither be guilty nor indemnity. An executive confidant because he was obviously unfounded in the work of the Chamber of Executives, and an executive debtor who may have even fulfilled his obligation, but an executor who was subsequently found not to be in charge at all. Furthermore, if you have already changed the local jurisdiction, and instead of jurisdiction towards the trustee's seat, you have determined jurisdiction towards the residence, or residence of the debtors, then I do not understand why you did not agree with the other members of that Chapter of the Law on Implementation and Security. For example, Article 256, which speaks of the jurisdiction to decide on the objection and provides that the Council of Court decides on the objection in whose area the Executive Trustee is based. You didn't change that. Therefore, your amendments do not cover this article, and if your proposal without amendments to Article 256 were now accepted, this would mean that, in practice, the applicant in whose area the debtor has residence, or residence, would be responsible for submitting a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible instrument for the payment of monetary claims based on municipal and other services, and that a decision on the appeal of the Court of Justice in which the trustee has his seat. Practically, it would look like this. For example, if Telekom, whose Belgrade business headquarters would like to collect some of her claims for a mobile phone service to a subscriber in Uzic, it should contact the Chamber that would appoint the perpetrator from the Užica area. But if the trustee or debtor were to object in the process, the appeal would not be decided by the court in Uzic, which would be logical, economically and everything else, but rather by the court in Belgrade. When the Belgrade court decided he would return the case to the perpetrator in Uzica for further action. I suppose it's just an oversight here, not a intention, given that the hill is made up of this proposal, but I ask you to make an effort, that every time you propose some changes, you try to see how these changes fit into existing provisions and whether some other provisions are necessary for that to change and align, and not that we have a rather confusing proposal that doesn't even fit the provisions of the same law. If you have already evened out the treatment of public notebooks and executioners in terms of your exemption from public procurement, then I ask you, why didn't you and the perpetrators, as you also obliged the public notebooks to make their privileged and some would say a monopoly position, to pay in the name of it the same as the public notebooks 30% of the total revenues achieved in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. To the very end, I would also like to commend you, that you have finally taken seriously the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that you have respected the obligation prescribed by Article 196 that the law enters into force at the earliest day of the eighth day of publication, thus showing that anything can be done at will and when it is done on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15917	I thank Mrs. Martinovic. The word has a folk MP, Neđo Jovanovic, and let the MP Irena Aleksic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15918	After all these discussions that have been under way since the beginning of today's debate, some questions have been raised that might be answered, but also issues that point to the necessity of the need, as I said in principle, of a final system solution in the area of enforcement. The question has been raised how to avoid discrimination. To avoid citizens from this session of the Assembly being under one delusion or prejudice that we are literally defending the perpetrator from the perpetrators, such an impression can be gained. We defend the state against any kind of corrupt action, we defend the Constitution because we oppose any form of discrimination and most importantly defend law and legality. That's right. Here, an esteemed colleague said what is the essential meaning of execution, which is to protect the interests of creditors who manifest their interest by wanting the fastest, most efficient way to make their claim come true. That is true, but it is also true that they cannot do so effectively quickly if the provisions of the Public Procurement Act are applied. Dear colleague Borko Stefanovic made two proposals. One proposal was the choice of executioners through a solution to the Law on Public Procurement and the other was a computer method. I have to draw attention here to something that no one can doubt. Public procurement only contributes to the executions being carried out even longer than they are. We contribute to public procurement that there are over 3,900 pending cases in Užice for several years, since it is mentioned more, I will say that there are more than 3,900 pending cases in Užica i) and on the basis of credible documents or as we say under iv) more than 16,200 items. These cases cannot undoubtedly be dealt with effectively and quickly by the perpetrators in the courts. The good intensity that these items are subject to private enforcement, but if they engage in such a large number of public procurements, then we will contribute that the procedure continues for too long. These are data that are absolutely accurate. These are the data obtained from the court. I agree, as a lawyer, in no case would I be able to go to my location aggressively and say execution is not in the interest of an executive trustee, so in whose interest it would be if it wasn't in the interest of an executive trustee. The efficiency of the collection of claims, when it comes to public and public-communal services, can be achieved by the perpetrators of their work to work responsibly and securely, to prevent discrimination between them, but also so that this responsibility can be resolved in a way that can only be resolved systemically, which is to form a question of disciplinary responsibility, to carry out a special structure of the chamber and by my deep conviction, regardless of the principle of debate, I support the new law on enforcement and security, I believe that we should ask the resolution ministry to pass a special law on private enforcement. This system part of the perpetrators do not have to be in the law on enforcement and security as an institution, they do not have to be covered. A special law on private perpetrators is set up in many democratic countries, countries that are far more orderly, far more economically powerful and powerful than Serbia. Personally, while I was at the Department of Justice at the office of the Secretary of State, I visited the Netherlands as the country that provides the best examples, the best possible solutions in the execution procedures. They have a special law on private perpetrators. We should also define ourselves by this model to form out of execution and security what applies to the chamber, what applies to the perpetrators and to set clear rules of work and chambers and executioners. When I mentioned and said that the best possible solution, in my confidence, the application of the algorithm, is that I must also tell you to a respected colleague Martinovic and everyone here, that the economic judiciary as an elite part of the judicial system has solved this problem when it comes to bankruptcy managers. I will also remind the bankruptcy directors were a big problem and a big balance because corruption occurred in that segment as well. The most sensitive segment of the sale of the assets of the creditor, the sale of the bankruptcy, the decoupling, the alienation, the setting up of the purchase, etc. etc. Who did that? They were bankrupt managers. Why? Because one bankruptcy manager had by, I don't know how many items, dozens, hundreds and thousands. That example must not be an example of the solution we offer. The solution we offer is very simple. The Agency for the Licensing of Accountants has done this softwarely, introduced the principle of algorithms and never one bankruptcy manager can be in multiple bankruptcy cases at the same time and cannot be determined in one, so on the same day in another bankruptcy case. That principle can be established here, but what is said by all speakers is the need for a new system solution. That's the need when a new law is passed. Whether it's gonna be a law on enforcement or security or a special law on perpetrators, it doesn't matter. It's important to form as a system, to get rid of it systemically. Only then can we hope to avoid corrupt acts and there will be no discrimination. It is mentioned here by some colleagues that directors are related to party definitions, that some directors are in public-public enterprises from one party or another. In any case, it must not be apostrophealed as primary. Are they yellow and red and others? We and how well we know when we passed the Law on Public Enterprises, that one of the provisions was that company directors could not be party-defined if they had to freeze their functions in parties whose members they were. Of course, I don't think it's a law that's given a lot of good solutions, and it will certainly succumb to certain changes and additions or the adoption of a new law, but in no case at this session of the Assembly, there must be no primate in the discussion and what is essential to bond with party definitions and to define ourselves through the parties whether the perpetrators are set properly, properly or incorrectly. The point is that the perpetrator must in no case become in a situation of enormous enrichment, while at the same time protecting the legal order. It is at the same time the protection of the Constitution, as it is said here, and it is at the same time a protection of justice and justice. That is why I am really staying with everything I have said in the principle debate and I want only these changes and additions that will be improved and improved by amendments to be an only transitional solution, but only a transitional solution to the adoption of a final system solution that will relieve mortgages, judicial inefficiencies, a huge period of time during which executive proceedings are carried out, and thus exclusively damages executive creditors. I will remind you that many laws have contributed to the fact that executive creditors are in a very unfavourable position. We had in this situation and provisions of the Privatisation Act which made it impossible to implement enforcement trusts with entities, according to debtors in the privatisation or restructuring process. In this way, millions of executive creditors went to an economic death. That's how tens of thousands of employees went to the streets. In this way many lost basic conditions for existence. That's how the state ran out of budget. And this relates to the provisions of the law on enforcement and security, although it is the other law that prevents it. It is precisely all the reasons that, no matter how much we criticise or how much we praise the proposed changes and additions, we accept that this is an necessity, we accept that we have to do this. I hope with the corrections of the amendments and hope that it will indeed be a transitional solution to the shortest period of time when we will pass the final law to either the perpetrators or the execution and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15919	Thank you. Mrs. Martinovic, on what grounds? (Vesna Martinović, from the place: My colleague mentioned me by name and last name, in a negative context, wrong interpretation. I didn't hear anything in Mr. Jovanovic's speech that would... I've just consulted my colleague on anything that could cause a replica. Did he mention you by your name? Mr. Jovanovic, please, did you mention Mrs. Martinovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15920	I mentioned Mrs. Martinovic, but not in a negative context, I just commented on her statement and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15921	Here you go, Mrs. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15922	So, just one explanation. We have the right to replicate not only when someone offends us but also when they misread or misread what we said. I would ask you, since you're the only chair of that table to pay attention to what we're saying, so you can normally hold a session. So, just a brief answer to my colleague. For nothing, you and I are now competing whether or not public procurement is established. The law was passed in this congregation two years ago. He's got to apply. If it doesn't work, it should change. If children's kindergartens are required for milk to explore public procurement whose value certainly does not exceed millions and millions of people we have heard of today, then we will agree that it is more than necessary here to open a competition and to create conditions for a transparent way of competing between the perpetrators regarding the provision of a legal enforcement service. If the Public Procurement Act isn't good, and I can agree with you in some way, then we need to change it, but not pretend it doesn't exist, it's very dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15923	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. I didn't want to interrupt, you can't direct us in such a way as to lead the National Assembly and the National Assembly session. I listened very carefully to you as you spoke, Mr. Jovanovic. I've consulted with the secretary about the current moment of the session. I may not have heard him mention your last name in the moment, but only exposure and misreading were not in the direction that you could get a replica. And you know very well that this interpretation of whether or not you have the right or not to speak about the replica is not just about the Rules of Procedure, but about me as the chairman, or the chairman, who at that time interprets and can make a decision whether you have the right to reply or not. You can't just say someone misread you by automatism, and you're entitled to a replica at that point. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Replica. It can't be like that to Mr. Jovanovic and now he's always... (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Replica, the same misreading. You're right, if I gave Mrs. Martinovic the wrong, you have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15924	Thank you. Obviously, there is a certain misunderstanding when it comes to the essential parts of the proposed changes and additions. I didn't say in any case, nor did we in the SPS Parliamentary Group consider the laws not to apply. Far from it, and God forbid. The law that was passed, however, was always and will remain the law in application. But here is not the essence of whether the law on public procurement must be applied, but rather the essence of how we are going to solve the problem systemically, and I have set an example and a proposal for a solution to the problem and I ask that it be heard carefully again as I say, through the principle of algorithm. How it's solved when it comes to bankruptcy managers. It doesn't matter if we apply this law on public procurement now if we don't have to, if we can solve it systematically differently, if we can make a far better and better solution through future law. If we don't have a better and better solution, of course we'll apply public procurement, no matter how harmful or not, but my proposal isn't that. My proposal is to find a solution in the future law that will solve this problem in the best possible way, and I am convinced that the best possible way is exactly an algorithm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15925	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Irena Alexic, and let Milanka Jevtović Vukojić be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15926	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, MPs and MPs, it is true that the envisaged amendments and additions to the laws we are discussing today, the law on enforcement and security, are true that they refer only to one member. But it was this member that caused the biggest number of problems, and hence the most abuses in the practical application of the law that was passed in 2011. According to the current law, we have one situation where the executive trustee chooses the perpetrator himself from where the headquarters of these companies are, and these are mostly large cities, in most cases it is Belgrade, so we have one situation that there are perpetrators who have a lot of work and there are perpetrators who have no job at all, so we have some absurd situations that are in themselves illogical, that executioners from Belgrade go to cities such as Kraljevo, Pribo, many other cities, and the perpetrators in these cities are left out of work. I think it's wrong and that no one can know better the opportunities in a city and other circumstances than the people living in that city, so that the changes and additions that are foreseen change. Namely, now the executive trustee, no longer elects the perpetrators, will be made by the commission, and what is very important is that the future perpetrator will be out of place, elected from the territory where the debtors' residence is located. I think that's why I've already made it very positive, so there's going to be something called something even and I'd say a fair regional distribution of the subject, which we needed more than we needed. As I have mentioned earlier, future executives will be elected by the panel within a time-limit foreseen by the five-day law from the date of arrival of requests from creditors, the perpetrators will be elected by one simple principle, in alphabetical order. This principle has proved to be extremely effective in some other areas, such as the assignment of lawyers, or lawyers under official duty. Only if the commission does not respond within the deadline provided for in the law, within five days will the trustee be entitled only then to determine the perpetrator, but still respecting the rule that the perpetrator must be from the territory of the debtor's residence. I believe that all these changes and additions that I have now listed as their primary goal is to finally introduce order in this area, introduce an effective enforcement system and ignore the numerous abuses and numerous irregularities that exist in the practical application of the existing law. I'll just list some of these irregularities, such as disorderly records, insufficiently clear position of the perpetrators, and, of course, as soon as something is not clear enough, it's automatically subject to different types of abuse, which is no exception here. In our country, there are currently about 199 perpetrators and indeed every day we can hear different, very negative comments from citizens who are unfortunately not even a little unfounded, the comments of a guy that costs more service than debt, indeed it gives a very ugly picture of us as a society. We really don't need that. We do not need situations that are very well known that we have situations that operators for the same services charge differently, which is extremely unacceptable. Then, favoring, what is quite present, favouring certain perpetrators, but not on the basis of their expertise that these people are too professional and are constantly chosen, but on the basis of different interests, especially a friendly relationship, nepotism and other reasons, which is absolutely unacceptable. I believe that the proposed amendments and additions will correct this, that one order will be introduced, one legal certainty in this area, which is more than necessary, which is a feature of every mature and responsible society, which Serbia wants to become in the right sense of that word, so that I hope that all of our colleagues will support this initiative and in the day for voting will give their vote for the intended changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15927	Thank you. The word is by MP Milanka Jeftic Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15928	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are facing a change of members of 252. The law on enforcement and security filed by this parliament by the SNS parliamentary group. The basis for the adoption of any legal act, in this case of law, is an adequate legal framework for a particular area, in this case an area of enforcement and security. However, for the Serbian Progressive Party, apart from an adequate legal framework, which is certainly a significant precondition, and how important its application, application of the law and the effectiveness of the application of the law in real life, i.e. in reality. Given that Article 252. The law on enforcement and security, which was passed in 2011, did not have adequate application in reality, that it produced some harmful consequences, the Serbian Progressive Party decided to amend the law. Of course, for the Serbian Progressive Party, every law is a living organism and apart from that normative regulation and how it should have an adequate and appropriate relationship in reality. The basis for many abuses is vague legal solutions. The very basis for abuse was Article 252. The law on enforcement and security, which was passed in 2011. Article 252 which suggests that the Serbian Progressive Party taxed in five positions, i.e. in five steps, determines a clear procedure when performing cases relating to municipal and other services. In particular, Article 252 states that the Executive Trustee must request an opinion from the Chamber of Executives, and the Chamber of Executive shall be obliged to submit within five days the list of perpetrators in alphabetical order to which they are entered in the Executive Director's register. Of course, if the Chamber does not deliver within the requested time limit, the Executive Trustee may contact the Executive Officer, but not according to the place of the Executive Trustee’s seat, but according to the Executive Officer’s seat, by making it possible, with the orderly documentation of the Executive Trustee submitted by the Executive Officer to the Executive Officer, there is also evidence that the Chamber has designated him as the executioner, i.e. there must be evidence that no reply has been sent within the prescribed time limit. In this way, only a clear procedure can certainly make this member of the law more efficient and how to make it fairer, and how to make it cheaper, and how to contribute to the even regional allocation of the subject when it comes to perpetrators. There is no dilemma that the Serbian Progressive Party's intentions to amend this law member are based on these principles and we call on all other representatives of political parties to support the amendment of Article 252 in the day of voting. The law on enforcement and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15929	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Milena Turk, and let MP Zoran Zivkovic be prepared. Milena Turk's not here. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15930	I am inclined to believe that a good intention was a motive for proposing this law and why this would not happen, regardless of the parties from where the proposings come from, but it seems to me that this good intention, if it existed, was not well transferred to the bill. It is true that this solution that is now in force and its implementation is such that there have been possible major abuses. There's a lot of examples for that. Here, my colleagues gave it to me. For example, the EPS has hired a certain Isidor Rankovic, say the wife of some Vuk Rankovic, I don't know who it could be, who received 17,390 items of 42,000, which is dramatically more than her colleagues. There are such examples in some other places. Some municipal public enterprises in Serbia's cities are also mentioned. I think the dilemma is completely wrong. Only public procurement can provide an adequate answer and a good solution to solve this problem. What are the faults of this problem, in alphabetical order? It's a complete case. There's no competence, there's no offer. There is no comparison of these perpetrators by their expertise, by efficiency, at the cost of their services. So, if it were public procurement, all of this could be checked and the person who makes the public procurement comes to the best offer. Surely in that competition prices will fall, and the level of service will have to rise. Now, we don't have a case like that, so we have, say, opportunities for the perpetrators to change their last names. Let's say they change their last name or their marriage, their marriage, or some other way, and they're on "A," and then when they spend their turn, they go to "B" and so on to "S". This is another serious problem with the alphabet order, and that is what we will do with perpetrators who are not Serbian nationalities, i.e. nationalities that use Latina and who benefit from letters that do not exist in the alphabet. So there are such citizens of Serbia, whose last name begins with "Y", on "X", on "W". How are you going to solve this in this law? In their official documents, they can place their original name and last name, they do not have to translate it into Serbian, and therefore it is not possible for them to get a job in alphabetical order. So, let the intention be good and that we respect it, but I don't mind that you change this proposal, that you be the promoters, that you be the saviors of this situation, I don't have any problem with it, but the problem is that it's a bad solution. This variant of public procurement is absolutely legal, according to the law on public procurement and brings very effective results that even your government boasted, so I think this is a good example of starting with the application of such a good system and at the level of the perpetrators in municipal enterprises. Of course we're all aware there was an abuse. The question is how the parliamentary majority only now remembered there were abuses, as there were a month and six months ago and a year ago and two years ago. There have been before, of course, but it's a miracle that this good intention is somehow born only after a few years of facing one bad legal solution and bad practice, and then there's another bad solution that only complicates the whole situation. The question is that there is no other organ to whom one who is dissatisfied by the perpetrators to complain of a potentially bad decision by the Chamber or I don't know who should be giving that job. I propose that the law be withdrawn, that the same MPs who gave this law propose a good law that will affirm public procurement, and that will solve this problem. In that case, New Party MPs would vote for such a legal solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15931	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15932	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I will uphold this law. As far as I'm concerned, I'm comfortable with both solutions proposed here. As far as the law is concerned, it suggests that the Chamber divides the alphabetically alphabetical objects, so I think many perpetrators will change their last name. So there's that flaw. No matter how you handle the law, there's always someone who can manipulate it. So, I guess we'd sooner come to order, get more items, that certain perpetrators can change their last name, start with "a," so that they can be Abrovic, etc., as my previous speaker, so they can set their last name to get as many items as possible. Also, I have to say, no matter how much as we've been proposing, we've been thinking about the bill, he's got his own drawbacks. So, by law, all perpetrators receive the same tax. So there will be some problems of the following kind – radio, not radio, he won the tax. If the chamber gives him items evenly, he will get those 3,900 dinars, so if he is in Belgrade and gets several thousand items, he can get ten million without doing anything. So he can't carry out his duties, he'll be denied just for the reward. If it goes to public procurement, it's not worth it again, because if the state has set the price, then that public competition doesn't make any sense. In this sense, this law is an improvement, a solution has been improved in relation to past laws. Those who spoke the most against this law have put the previous 2011 law into action according to their own measure. They measured where their perpetrators could take good money from public enterprises, utility companies, etc., and then there was an electoral defeat and then the job belonged to maybe the same people who changed party uniforms to become friends and some new directors of public enterprises, to get these entry jobs. As MPs, we have proposed the law that this happens to a lesser extent, that there is no such kind of privilege as the 2011 legislator has replaced someone else. Everyone here said the perpetrators were supposed to share the spoils, and no one said who they were going to take it from, because the machine for scratching until 2012 has robbed the citizens more than once. They've been nicked so much that the feathers don't grow anymore, because the skin is peeled, and the meat of the feathers won't grow, so I don't know what's going to happen in this country and who's going to charge for it, given that 1,500 people, I think, raise their hands on themselves annually. The economic situation is such, and it has been inherited since 2012, that except for a dozen tycoons and a dozen politicians, who have co-operated with them and were given permission to listen to and subject to the work of the international community, have been granted the exclusive right to rob their citizens and to leave them in a slave position, that they have become slave owners. Now I think in this law there's a right for the perpetrators to declare their lack of property. I think that when the contractor sees that there is no more to be charged, I don't think the perpetrators will have a long time of work, given that by 2012, the people are fundamentally corrupt, so I believe that the lack of it will be a universal phenomenon, because one economy, which should contribute to the fact that citizens have more money, that the economy delivers money to everyone, not just individuals, that in this country they can't just tycoons have money, but that they have money ordinary citizens. In such situations, I believe that the work for the perpetrators would be less, but I know that our people are also not disciplined. I think we'd be satisfied with both citizens and perpetrators. So, I think, given that those who objected most here, that they created such an economic situation and social situation in the country, that they would simply have no one to charge. Also, I'd like to know, given that I'm similar in action, at this point we have "SBB", we have "Telenor", "VIP", these are companies dealing with similar activities, such as "Telecom". In this case, this law will apply to them. I don't know how many of us have had the right to order them as private companies that they have to give objects to the perpetrators through the chamber, since they as a private company may be satisfied with some good charge from some executioner in whom they have complete confidence. So, I'm not saying that this law is ideal, nor can it be ideal, is certainly an improvement compared to the law that the legislator wrote in 2011 and which he thought to apply and continue to corrupt the people, where they can't take as much as they want, to continue to do so by their perpetrators. However, there was an electoral defeat in 2012, so those jobs that they thought were intended for their party comrades can no longer do so, but the model they set is that only individual perpetrators have a job, this model that was inherited remains and this law changes it into a fairer model. I'm saying it's not entirely ideal, but it's certainly progressing against what's been found. Also, I have to say, this only applies when it's a public-communal enterprise against citizens. Then it goes to public papers, and then that debt goes away. It is my dissatisfaction that in 2011, law writers did not predict a model, and I believe that the Ministry of Justice will consider it, that even a citizen on the basis of a credible ID can collect his claim from a public-community company. This way, the law is only one-way. When there's something forced to be charged by citizens, it'll be based on public documents. Otherwise, when a citizen needs to collect something from a public firm and state, then he'll have a nice lawsuit, which is wrong. I think the law should be two-way, and those rights it gets are given to public-communal businesses to citizens, that citizens get the same right. My advice is that the future Justice Ministry, as a more qualified law-proposing body, has my objections in mind as well. I believe that the law, which I have also signed, is a major improvement compared to the former laws, those proposed by the parties of the former regime, which have basically robbed their people, that there is no more to be charged, no more stripping. That will be our problem until we raise the economy, agriculture, energy and processing industry. I'm afraid these perpetrators will be out of a job, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15933	Thank you. Mr. Veckovic is not here, neither is Mrs. Vuckovic. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15934	Thank you. Dear Chairman, we have before us a law that is not very popular among citizens because at the moment when the general public executioners were introduced, people thought that we were introducing, or not us, but the government of the time, to introduce racketators. That's how, unfortunately, it's presented to the public. However, to be completely honest, and looking at experiences and other countries, it is not a bad institute that has lived in Western European countries at all. I remind you, for example, that in Montenegro, a complete enforcement procedure has been passed on to private perpetrators, except as regards family relations, there is still a court, but let's say, in Montenegro far better execution of judgments, because absolutely everything is on private perpetrators. There's no dualism there that's in our possession that you can choose whether or not you want a court, you want a private executioner. Anyway, unfortunately, we've always had this practice of always finding a hole in the law somewhere, so some private contractor can live very well because he's found a connection in a public enterprise or anywhere, so he gets all the jobs you want and someone gets nothing. These changes and additions of the law are just going in that direction to prevent such manipulation. It is good that the MPs themselves came up with it, and in the future, you won't be able to favor one of the perpetrators just because you like them, you have some godfather's, family ties with them, and then you're giving him jobs, but now it's very limited, and of course others who don't have that kind of money to earn bread, because they'll be able to get a job somewhere. This is very important, we must finally get used to it as a society that we have obligations to the state and in general when it comes to municipal services, since this is something special we have to pay for. We all demand that we have a great power system, and you have as many examples as you want that we don't want to pay for electricity. We will, a richer state, and we will not pay taxes. That way it can't go anywhere and it doesn't work anywhere, and the simple state has to figure out how to come up with those claims. I find it fascinating once upon a time, Mr Selakovic, as justice minister, said that at this point we have about two million and 300 thousand executive sentences that have not been carried out. It's a complete disaster. It just tells you about the complete collapse of our judiciary and in general execution, and you just have to find an alternative way to get to the charge, because you know this information shows you how unable our courts are to execute judgments. It's a cruel confession. Unfortunately, we don't have SDK anymore today. Once upon a time when it existed, things like this couldn't happen, you couldn't even function as a firm until you paid for everything you had. You've had good control, unfortunately, no more today, but when all this was passed on to the courts, it was very bad, because the courts obviously showed their inability to execute judgments. I have to admit, from the very beginning, when private contractors were introduced, I sort of acted on it. Now we're introducing some private racketeeres, and it's really how it's presented in public, you have texts, I remember from that period. However, as time moves away and I see judgments being carried out right to tell you, I am increasingly inclined to introduce myself in Montenegro to transfer the full execution to private perpetrators, and I think it would be far more effective, because if it remains this way for the court to execute your verdict, it will not happen to ask God how much. Here, you have the verdicts that have become executives in 2010, 2011 so far have not been carried out, and people can't wait for that, they're simply asking for their claims. I think maybe you should think about it in some future period and about transferring the full execution to private perpetrators. Now that we bring these amendments here and the additions to the law, they refer to municipal services. It's good that this is being introduced, it's good that you can, that you have to hire a private contractor from a territory where the debtor has a residence or residence, and it's good that it restricts this possibility of abuse and indignity that just because you have some kind of relationship with someone in a public enterprise or an institution to set you up, it's now being denied and it's good that we've all seen it here and that this should be supported. It should think about everything, possibly if some useless amendment comes to correct this proposal, in any case, full support for something like this, and this is an indicator of how many MPs themselves, since this is our proposal, think about the citizens of Serbia and think about the efficiency of this society. One commendation for the MPs themselves who suggested this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15935	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our colleague Pantic Pilja presented here in our Assembly a proposal to amend and supplement the law on enforcement and security. I am, of course, just like the order before and read the proposed changes. The explanation of the proposed changes and to me after the first reading, I would also say to Mr Becic, Mrs Pantic Pilja, that this was a good proposal. Of course, the first reading can't be the last reading of a bill, and then I recorded some things that made me think this could be good. It seemed to me that since Article 252 of the existing law was changed here, it seemed to me that the MPs of 131, and this was explained here by Mrs Pantic Pilja, wanted to act in a way correct in relation to the actions of Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, as I recall that he was here on behalf of the Government to defend five members of the same law in May. For example, we didn't have this thing that he was defending, and then I concluded, here are the SNS deputies finally, here's Mrs Pantic Pilja, for example, they concluded we still have to oppose the executive authorities when she's wrong, and Mr Selakovic is always wrong, we always have to fix after him. But what did I conclude, gentlemen? I concluded that this proposal is correct in relation to Mr Nikola Selakovic's actions, but not fully. Then of course, that's where I have to say it's not right. And of course the reason is an emergency procedure. If we had consulted a little more, if we had talked earlier, we might have come to a good solution together. Then it seemed to me when I read the explanation that was sent here, that it was good, too. For example, on page 3 of the reason for the law and Mrs Pantic Pilja mentioned it here, she says – big problems have been recorded in practice, and of course I also think that we should respond to problems. Politics, gentlemen, is about, above all, solving our common problems. Then it is recorded, the legal solution is not fair in one segment, and of course we here need to be directed towards justice and justice, but what is wrong, gentlemen? It's not right for us to go from one injustice to an amendment to the law to another injustice, and this proposal, gentlemen, is what I think I'm doing. Here's three examples to show it here. Maybe a little talk, but it's time for us to do it in our congregation all the time. The first thing, we recorded it here, Mrs. Martinovic said very precisely here, and I came to that too. If this change is accepted, then this law in one part, small but it doesn't matter, and that small part is important, it's in accordance with another law, and that's the Public Procurement Act. We are not allowed here, gentlemen, to adopt laws which, according to their own contents, are incompatible with other laws that apply. If we do so, then here as a legislative body we create a legal disorder, which means we are moving away from the principle that we here in our joint work should be the most respected gentlemen, which is the principle of rule of law which is recorded as the most important, in Article 3. The Constitution of our country. The second example, gentlemen, is mentioned here in the very proposal for a law amending Article 252 that perpetrators are determined evenly according to the alphabetic order of their enrolment in the executioner's directory, that I do not read the whole point of view. I don't think that's a fair way, because if we take this as a criterion, that means that all the perpetrators whose last name begins with A, B, etc. that they are privileged against all other perpetrators, respected gentlemen. For example, imagine. The next situation, here's the imagination, let's imagine that our colleague Mr. Shormaz is one of the perpetrators, when would Mr. Shormaz come in line according to this criteria? Never respected gentlemen. Would that be fair? It wouldn't be fair. I have a third example, but Mr. Becic's emergency finger certainly won't provide me with any more time, unfortunately. But if there's a dialogue, I'll say the third example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15937	Mr. Pavicevic would love to, but the time is up. The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja, as an authorised promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15938	I will just briefly respond to the previous speaker, as he mentioned that the justice minister in charge, Mr Selakovic did not submit a proposal to amend these laws. I ask all colleagues who have already mentioned this today to pay attention to Article 150. The Rules of Procedure, which says - the right to propose laws and other general acts have every MP, government, Parliament of the AP and at least 30,000 voters, which means that each of the MPs can submit a bill and we do not have to wait for the executive power to do so. That's the first one. Secondly, public procurement has been mentioned, I think it's already been discussed. I understand that the previous speaker is not a lawyer, so he can't know, but the executive procedure is for the executive trustee to be charged as soon as possible. If public procurement is carried out in order to appoint a private contractor, we delay the execution procedure. Also, the alphabetical order of the executioner is mentioned that Mr. Shormaz would not come to the turn because he is named after the letter “S”. I have to appeal again that my colleague is not a lawyer, so he doesn't know how it works. If you say it evenly – so it starts from "A", but it will come to "S", as we have, here, I am a defender by official duty, my last name is Pantic Pilja, and I come up in line when the letter "P" comes up. That's how the previous speaker would come to order. So it goes evenly. It starts with "A" because you know the alphabet, but it will end with "S". There aren't only three execution cases in a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15939	Thank you, Mrs. Pilla. Mr. Pavicevic, do you really think you're mentioned? [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: If you can replica?]] (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Mrs. Pilja came to me. She meant me. Let me explain, maybe not. I can do it without a mircophone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15940	Ladies and gentlemen, let me just try to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15941	You didn't get a replica, you just got a chance to explain why you think you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15942	An explanation, of course. Mrs. Pantic Pilja came forward after my speech and responded to some of the dilemmas I had about these changes. It is obvious that Mrs Pantic Pija was referring to my speech, not to another MP's speech, and I ask you, Mr Becic, to ask Mrs Pantic Pilja, did she mean my speech? If she says she's not, I'm giving up the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15943	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Very funny. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Not funny. Let's ask Mrs. Pilia. You do not have the opportunity to communicate with another MP. (Biljana Pantic Pija, from the place: This is direct address. ) Mr Pavicevic, this is a direct address that is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Don't you want to ask Mrs. Pilja? ) Let him say something. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: She answered. Let me. I ask the MPs to allow me, as chairman, to continue to hold the session. Let me answer that. Ms Pantic, as an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, has the right and the opportunity to comment, respond and to suggest to the MPs, which is why she thinks this law should be supported by MPs. On the basis of the debates of the MPs, she can present some of the visions, some of the illogical things she heard in those discussions. Doesn't necessarily mean she was thinking of you. She may have thought of you, too, but in her speech, I didn't see anything that would be negatively or incorrectly interpreted in a way where you would have the opportunity to replicate, so I think this is enough that you had the opportunity and I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: So you won't ask Mrs. Pilja? I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: Although the microphone is on to me and I don't know if I should take this opportunity now to say... ) [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15945	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Pavicevic remained in my debt, stayed with Mr. Babic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15946	Mr. Nikolic, please don't turn directly to another MP, and if you have any debts from the past, it's out of this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15947	Because of his statement that one of the notaries in Belgrade took 180,000 euros in September and passed a month and a half and I didn't get an answer. However, it is obvious that Mr Pavicevic has done very well as far as this law is concerned. It is difficult for him to have 500 members, and when it comes to amending and supplementing the law where there are three members, it is enough for him to read to the whole of their parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15948	Mr. Nikolic, you didn't get the line but to talk about the agenda and please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15949	Of course, I have to make some introductions...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15950	You can't do it the way you're going to replicate to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15951	I would remind citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission that today Belgrade is the centre of the world and that China and 16 countries of Europe are in Belgrade. We expect major economic activity. We expect the injection we will receive, as far as finance is concerned, which will speed up Serbia's rebirth. In this regard, we, as MPs of the people, saw the mistakes of the previous authorities, taking into account the laws that created the opportunity to create a monopoly in one area concerning private perpetrators, made a decision and we 130 signed an amendment to the Security and Enforcement Act. In this way, we try to disable the rope between private contractors and public companies when handing over and realising and charging executions based on credible documents, because we know that this is a huge number and that anyone who gets the items can charge, and the service of private contractors is, I remind you, according to the Chamber of Executives' decision at their price of 5,000 dinars, so it is completely irrelevant whether someone travels to Pancheva or Vranje, because it makes so much money for each execution. This is especially about you hitting the seal and changing the name and last name of the debtor. People can do that with a high school, so certain private contractors, given that they get 15, 16 and 17 thousand items from their friends can do such a big job and make 700 000 euros, Mr Pavicevic, and it's impossible that 180, which you invented when you said notaries, but you didn't rebel when we mentioned today this figure that individual private perpetrators by name and last name have charged it. This was made possible by the previous government. The previous government passed the Law in 2011 when the minister in the government, and the backbone was DS, was Mrs Malovic, a esteemed MP, who made the law create a monopoly, so that private perpetrators could make so-called public companies with the directors. Dil, to take a huge number of objects and make it possible to make corruption. So I'm not mad at the perpetrators either. We are not angry with the directors of public enterprises either, because if you gave them an opportunity through the law, if they did not break it, then it is logical that they will, because they are all in one economic situation, as in Serbia, invited if they are given the opportunity to make some kind of deal, to take something beyond that salary they have. So it's the legislator who made it possible for them, which is, of course, DS and that is, of course, the government that proposed such a law that came before the National Assembly in 2011. This law makes a list of the perpetrators, i.e. through the Executive Chamber or the Executive Chamber. That list goes in alphabetical order, but the alphabet line is written the way you type in chronologically. The items will be divided evenly and each will receive a certain number of items. It's impossible for him to get the same face twice. It also determines the place of jurisdiction where the executions will be carried out. The executions shall be carried out and local jurisdiction shall be determined according to the place, seat or residence of the debtors. Thus, the most balanced distribution of these items across Serbia will be reduced and so-called "execution" will be reduced. By emigrating or re-sading, or by allowing certain perpetrators to earn 700 000 euros through Nis or these larger cities without individual perpetrators being able to earn any single dinar. In this way we also reduce the possibility of corruption. We do not allow conditions and possibilities to be created where a situation is being created that the director of a public enterprise, at its own free will, determines the perpetrator. Of course, it will be done by identifying his friend, his godfather, or someone with whom he has a personal relationship in his personal life. In this way it is completely analized, it is impossible for any of these situations to happen. There were also suggestions that were said very much too much and that we would discuss on the day when amendments are discussed. I think that five-day deadline, which we have given as proposing amendments and additions to this law, is too short for the Chamber to respond, and that is where I fully agree with Mr Jovanovic. We need to match it to all the other deadlines in the Executive Procedure Act, which is five working days. Because you have a life situation for the subject to come in the Chamber at half past three on Friday, so you're automatically unable to look at the list that day and give an answer. There are Saturdays and weeks coming as unworkable days and practically the Chamber has three days to give an answer. That is why changes are needed and I suggest that we accept this amendment, and we discuss the other amendments in the voting day. So, the SNS and the SNS parliamentary group have seen the mistakes that exist in the law, we've learned that, we decided to make this proposal and let it be resolved by an emergency procedure, because we don't want to hide, we don't want to close our eyes to an obvious situation. Someone had done it before, so he was punished by Serbian citizens. We don't hesitate to mention the names of ours, under the circumstances, people who are ours because they have our membership card, but if they're dealing with something that's illegal, if they're dealing with crime, they're criminals and they're not being protected by any SNS membership card or anything. We are not someone who will carry out political terror, nor will we lock those people up because they are party members, but anyone who breaks the law, no matter what party it is, of course we will strive to keep his place in prison. That is why, in the day for the vote, and of course when certain amendments have been incorporated that I have said earlier, which are too high and which will improve the text of this law, our entire parliamentary group will, and hopefully all opposition parties, because today they have declared that this law is very acceptable, we will also vote on these amendments and the amendments to the laws we will adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15952	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic, but it is not there. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my distinguished colleague Biljana Pantic Pilja has very high-qualityd the essence of this bill. This bill represents a significant step forward in the process of enforcement of court decisions and this law, namely this bill, will, when adopted, avoid a number of abuses caused by the applicable law on enforcement and security. What I wanted to say today at the beginning of our work, I'll say it now. Members of the former regime spoke of this bill with one visible dose of misrepresentation. What was particularly disturbing to me was that with one visible dose of misrepresentation, they spoke of the right of each MP to propose the law to the National Assembly. Today, the president of the DS parliamentary group, completely contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, devoted the largest part of his presentation to attacks, of course, extremely unfounded, without any arguments, colored by political hatred, to Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic and the Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Dejan Djurdjevic, accusing them of being responsible for the fact that there are in practice abuses in the appointment of an enforcer who will deal with the execution of judicial decisions made on the basis of so-called. authentic documents. One is said, I don't know whether to tell a lie, or one sentence that is a fruit of ignorance. It is not the minister who proposes laws to the National Assembly, but rather the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Neither government minister nor Nikola Selakovic can propose any law to the National Assembly, the government of the Republic of Serbia can. What Mr. Selakovic has so far proved in countless cases is that there is absolutely no fear of coming to the National Assembly. Whenever he was an authorised representative of the government, he came to the National Assembly and to the best possible legal but political way to explain the bill sent to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. However, we now have a different legal situation. So here's the proposing group of 131 MPs. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under the Law on the National Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, each MP has the right individually to propose a law and 131 MPs of the SNS used this right, not to allegedly protect Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic from his arrival in the National Assembly, in order to allegedly protect Mr Nikola Selakovic from, imagine, attacks by former regime MPs. No, as representatives of the SNS, we have seen that the law on enforcement and security in some of its parts is not good and we have proposed that it be changed in that part which, in our opinion, in practice causes the greatest number of abuses. What I also want to point out, when you listen to today's presentations of former regime MPs who were officials in the executive government at the time, then you ask yourself, wait, and who has passed the law on enforcement and security? In 2011, who convinced us that the law was good, that the law should be passed and that the law would solve a number of problems facing the Serbian judiciary in that part called the executive procedure? In order not only to be empty words, I will now remind the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia of what it looked like on 5 April 2011 at the 3rd session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when Mrs Snezana Malovic, as then minister of justice, explained the draft law on enforcement and security. Mrs Malovic then said there is a systemic problem in the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the execution of civil matter court decisions and that according to the data collected, the average age of unsolved cases in the Republic of Serbia is 442 days and the average duration of the enforcement procedure is about 260 days, unlike the situation that exists in most EU countries where, as Mrs Malovic said at the time, the average duration of the executive procedure is 60 days. What did the then-Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by the DS, represented by Mrs Malovic in the National Assembly, offer as a solution to such a bad situation in the civil matter executive procedure? She offered a valid draft law on enforcement and security. For the bill, Ms Malovic pointed out with pride that a working group of the Ministry of Justice worked on the draft law, with the support of international organisations, as well as the public debate was conducted on this law and that the opinion of the Council of Europe expert was obtained, and that the work itself to draft the law on enforcement and security lasted about three years. Of course, I won't look back, for lack of time, on everything the Minister of Justice said at the time, thanking the draft law on enforcement and security, but I will only point out the part relating to Article 252. A bill that's now on the agenda. Mrs Malovic then pointed out – the paper presents that the proposal to execute on the basis of a credible document in order to achieve a monetary claim on the basis of the public services performed, such as the supply of water, heat, waste disposal and similar services, is submitted to the executioner whose area is the headquarters of the executive trustee. The competent executor shall draw a conclusion determining the execution. An appeal may be brought against the executioner’s conclusion to the competent court. So, in 2011, then, the parliamentary majority, the regime at the time, persuaded the MPs, convinced the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that it was a good thing that whoever delivered you the heat energy, took away the trash, and you did not pay it, and you proved to him the foundation of your claim on the basis of a credible document, that he had the right and that this is the best possible solution for him to determine the private executioner, according to the place of the executive trustee. Here, in 2014, now these same MPs of the former regime convince us that such a solution in practice has caused a number of abuses, but then they come to an amazing conclusion. We have made it possible to pass a law that will cause numerous abuses. Those abuses really happened, but it wasn't our fault. Then who's to blame? It is Nikola Selakovic's fault and it is Dejan Djurdjevic's fault. I've really never heard of a more pointless explanation for a political and legal attitude before. The Serbian Progressive Party has then and now warned that such a solution where the trustee himself determines the perpetrator, according to the executive trustee's seat, will in practice cause a number of abuses and practice has shown it. Now a group of 131 MPs have proposed a law to prevent or prevent these abuses. Now we are accused by the parties to the former regime that it is our fault that these abuses took place, and in 2011 they passed a law which was known to contain solutions that objectively enable numerous abuses in practice, i.e. enable one and the same private perpetrators of one and the same large public utility companies to get a job and that all other private perpetrators do not have a job. We now want to correct that with this bill of law. What is another problem here that the MPs of the former regime have tried to apostrophe in, in my opinion, one extremely inconclusive way? They wonder why our proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security states that the Chamber is obliged to respond to the request of the Executive Trustee within five days of the date of receipt, making sure that the perpetrators are determined evenly according to the alphabetical order of their enrolment in the executioner's directory, and they wondered why there is no public procurement here. Both Mrs Pantic Pilja and my esteemed colleague Dragan Nikolic and other colleagues have proved very convincingly that there is no need to conduct the procurement procedure because the tariff is exactly the same for all private perpetrators. So, what criterion would be on public procurement when it comes to the price of a private contractor's service, when for all private perpetrators in the Republic of Serbia a single tariff applies? If anyone would go with the so-called. dumping prices, he would automatically violate the tariff prescribed for private perpetrators and he would suffer sanctions and in fact, in the process of some public procurement he would not be able to participate and, in the end, he would not be able to get a job because he was in breach of the tariff prescribed for private contractors. What's the political problem here? The political problem and political hypocrisy is when lessons about the need to conduct public procurement are held by those who today and today in the territory of the AP Vojvodina in the most brutal way break the Public Procurement Act. Today, we are told about public procurement by those who have made a Capital Investment Fund of Vojvodina which has not implemented any public procurement under the old law or by the applicable law. Mr. Stefanovic spoke about how good it is that we also have a public procurement procedure in this matter. I ask, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, did Mr Stefanovic hear the name of a tycoon against whom several court proceedings are being conducted called Dusan Borovica? It's a man who's been getting jobs since 2007, and who's had a monopoly for several years, but literally a monopoly, on the territory of the AP Vojvodina when it comes to works on the construction or reconstruction of road infrastructure on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. You had one case where Mr. Borovica, with the support of the Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina, had the support of the DS of Vojvodina, with the support of the director of the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, first did the job, as he did the citizens of Vojvodina, as well as all the jobs, unquality, took big money from the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. Then the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund later, when it was all over, post-festum, pro-forms call public procurement, thinking that no one will report to the job done and, behold, the company "Ratko Mitrovica" from Belgrade appeared. Mr. Borovica and his friends from the DS in Vojvodina, in order to prevent confusion and shame, takes all of this to the company Ratko Mitrovica in Belgrade to ask them by a very convincing means not to press charges against him and the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund. About syphons, about toothbrushes, about what kind of products have nothing to do with money taken from various AP funds of the Duke's SNS has so far spoken many times. We have shown that since 2006, when the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund was created, and after that, when a number of Vojvodina funds have been created, in which numerous abuses have been recorded and which were made only for the purpose of blowing elections into DS cores, to buy votes, to win out of elections, of course, by violating all possible legal regulations and all possible democratic procedures, so that these same ones today teach us lessons about it – and why do you, advancers, now that private executioners are determined not to carry out public procurement procedures? That is, therefore, top political hypocrisy. The last to talk about public procurement and the first to run away to mention the word "public procurement" are some MPs of the former regime's parties that have robbed citizens of the Republic of Serbia to the ground. Fortunately, they were prevented by the SNS, who won the elections in 2012. Unfortunately, there is another island in the Republic of Serbia where citizens are still exposed to the robbery and violation of the Law on Public Procurement, the wealth of individuals, etc., which is the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but I sincerely hope and believe that this time will not last long and that finally the citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina will start to enjoy the benefits of a large democratic liquid that was spoken of by counterpart Pavicevic, which is the rule of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15954	The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15955	Mr. Chairman, I don't know what you've been doing for the last 15 minutes. Here, Mr Martinovic said that some MPs have robbed this country to the ground. I don't know what this is about, do some MPs have any convictions we don't know about? I know that the anti-President of the Assembly has a verdict that directly burdens the city of Novi Sad with four million euros. If you were thinking of her, Mr. Martinovic, please give your names. You, when you say, "some MPs robbed the state," you might think it could be any one of the MPs. I'm just asking you to keep an eye on what's being said. I don't know what you were doing. You had to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15956	Please, let's be clear, is it a breach of the Rules of Procedure, or what is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15957	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15958	You didn't name me a member, so I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15959	Article 107, I think it's obvious, and 106, because I think it's inadmissible, first of all, that the previous speaker in the debate on this bill is talking about the government of Vojvodina, because we don't see what the connection is. You also had to notice. The other thing really offends the dignity of the National Assembly when someone says any MPs have robbed the state. As far as I know, the MPs are neither being prosecuted, nor there are judgments, let alone the judicial ones, except in the case of the President of the National Assembly, for which there is a ruling of the Supreme Court of Cassation, which says she was responsible for the damage that occurred in the town of Novi Sad at the time of the mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15960	I must admit that I always have a problem bringing MPs to strictly adhere to the agenda, and on that side I can say that you were quite right, to accept, but the problem is really, the thing is MPs. I often have to say, I'm in a dilemma about what to do with it. Therefore, the only question left for me is do you want to take the day to vote on the injury? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. Alexander Martinovic, on what basis? (Alexandar Martinovic, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15961	Article 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The head of the DS parliamentary group devoted two-thirds of its presentation to attacks against the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is not a proposing of this law, and attacks against Minister Selakovic, and the director of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, Mr Dejan Djurdjevic, that they were allegedly responsible, for the abuses that were produced in practice by the Law on Implementation and Security, which was brought by DS, and for which then the minister of justice, Mrs Snezana Malovic, then said that the best possible legal solution had been made by using domestic and foreign experts' services, with the opinion of the Council of Europe, and that those top legal solutions needed to write a draft law for three years. Now, what Miss Jerkov must know... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15962	Please, Martinovic, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15963	I'm discussing a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15964	Please, you were talking about the violation of the Rules of Procedure who spoke to the head of the DS parliamentary group. I don't know, when I wasn't there, he spoke about an hour or two ago. Now please tell me what this has to do with the present?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15965	I point out the violation of article 27, Mr. Arsenovic, because here...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15966	Please respect, please respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15967	If you'll just allow a few sentences. The subject of the agenda is therefore the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Implementation and Security, which was submitted by a group of 131 MPs. Two-thirds of the time the DS MPs, primarily Mr Stefanovic, committed unfounded attacks on Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15968	I know, Mr. Martinovic, please, I can't, I won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15969	Mr. Arsenović, let me just finish. So now I'm just pointing to the fact that those who honor us for why we didn't put in the bill the private executioners were determined, and they've been breaking the law on public procurement for years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15970	No, I can't let you. My comment was enough. I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure, especially what happened an hour, two, a time, and there's no comment there. The only thing I can ask you is, in the voting day, do you want to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, okay. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15971	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. At first, I would like to thank Mr Martinovic, because in one real and dignified way he tried to show you that we are all equal before the law and before God. That the same archeologists mean sitting in front of Mr. Stefanovic, and according to Mr. Martinovic and other colleagues. If someone doesn't mind, as you said an hour ago, Mr. Stefanovic speaks more than half of his time outside the agenda theme by attacking two officials of the Government of Serbia, and when Mr. Martinovic tries to explain that in one part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, one handful of people who do not have the support of citizens, no greater than 5-6% by breaking the law, violating democratic principles, the same moment is being warned and returning to the topic. I would also like to thank the speakers who tried to indicate that there is one flagrant rejection of everything the congregation majority is trying to do here. When the assembly procedure gives instructions to laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when we do not rarely have more ministers present in the Government of the Republic of Serbia than the MPs of the former regime, that is when the Assembly becomes a flow water heater, as the National Assembly called DS or something else in the bathroom, and it is said that the National Assembly in political hatred and demeaning the state of Serbia has called all its citizens the Assembly Mr Zoran Zivkovic. At the moment when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia assumes the role defined by the Constitution, the laws, the Rules of Procedure, when MPs propose or a group of MPs propose a law, it is asked – and where is the minister? And why didn't the minister come? That's why I'd like to invite my colleagues from the former regime's party to say what they want to say. Let's let them say what they want for once. Whether they want ministers or they want MPs. Whether he wants the congregation to do its job or not to do its job. Come on, people, you two can make a deal with yourselves once. Since you asked where the minister is, I'll tell you where the minister is. Eleven months ago, 11 months ago, a task force has been formed to work intensively on changes and additions, namely the new law on enforcement and security, which will protect both citizens and the interests of the Serbian state in a much better way. With a comprehensive solution much better and better quality than this is today, we're trying to improve. The minister, Mr Selakovic, will come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because he is a man who has no reason to be afraid, especially not of evil people. But there's only one side of the stick here. There are two ends on that stick. Were there any cases of a colleague Biljana Pantic Pilja very bravely and correctly speaking and who pulled us back and motivated us to refer this law to the assembly procedure. Yes, it was. If there were violations of the law, as Mr Dragan Nikolic said, I have no problem having those who have broken the law, no matter whose membership card they have or have not, answer to the laws and Serbia's judicial system. But what about the other side? I'll try to ask a question that I know has a positive and confirmed answer. Does the former justice minister, Mrs Malovic, work in an executive office? Did Mrs Malovic, who was the legislator of the law, work in the executive office? Are the closest associates of the former minister, advisors, participants in such a bill that is as bad as we've heard from DS members of the DS, do they work in executive offices? Are those where they end up most of the money from taxis that are made in such a non-transparent way, in such a confusing way. The fees were not defined and prescribed by SNS or Mr Selakovic, those who now consume those fees that determine themselves, who put them in the pockets of those agencies, offices and their private pockets. What did the SNS do? What did Mr. Selakovic do? Why no one has said that since 1 October this year and the perpetrators have a commitment to fiscal cash registers and that they know what their income is and how much of it is a commitment to the state, what is the obligation to the Republic of Serbia. There you are, gentlemen, wondering where Mr Selakovic is, there he is, caring about the interests of the Serbian state. I'd like to talk about this in a broader way. I would like to talk to you in a way that tangs all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Do you think it matters to the citizens of Serbia whether the perpetrators are pulled out of the drums as the bankruptcy directors are drawn? Under the law adopted in 2011, the selection of a bankruptcy manager was made by a method of random selection from the list of active bankruptcy managers in December 2009. What kind of game is this with property, huge property? With people who work there? Now those who are such methods, the lotto drum, from which only certain bankruptcy managers were drawn, are now looking for public procurement. Why didn't you ask for a more transparent way then? What drum is that? What are the balls in that drum? Whose names are in that drum? Who took part in this choice? No, only the sole choice of a bankruptcy manager is done by way of a method of Article 20 is done by a random selection method from the list of active bankruptcy managers. So, by chance, these active bankruptcy managers are very close to the former regime and parties of the former regime and individuals of the former regime. The others aren't active. They've got a lot of work to do, to sit at home, no matter what the profession, no matter what the knowledge, no matter what they know. They are not in the drum, nor are the citizens of Serbia interested, and I believe they will not be interested in the alphabet order either. They are more interested in why they have come into a situation where bankruptcy, or executioners, come to their door. Why did we get into this situation? Do you think I'm happy because there are perpetrators in Serbia? I didn't. Personally, I don't think you are either, but personally I don't think anyone in Serbia is happy when the executioner knocks on his door. Why are we in such a situation? I believe, for two things. There are irresponsible messages from politicians in the past, and I have to mention a barrel here. I don't know if it was plastic or metal, I believe it was metal, and it's storming in a magical way, driven by an opposition politician then, now from our fellow MP, once Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the unfortunate circumstances of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to the centre of Nis. Then with this gentleman's irresponsible messages, I believe you've recognized and you know who he's talking about, he said then, people, vote for me, vote for the option I belong to, and then it belonged to DS, and the electricity bills, utility bills, all the bills in that barrel, and we'll burn. People believed it. They believed people, they put the bills in the barrels, they thought that it solves all the problems, they rounded up his name and party, and they kept not paying the bills, thinking that what he promised would happen. He did not fulfill, as he did not resign as a national MP when he fluently spoke falsely from the assembly speaker about the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and when it was proven, instead of at the National Assembly's office, instead of in the Administrative Committee, instead of with the resignation of how honorable people do it when they do something that is wrong and what is not true, we unfortunately still listen to some 500 or 600-shaped warrants, I don't know how many amendments, very creative ones that mean "decease," so that people believed and said – we don't have to pay the bills. The accounts unfortunately or fortunately, whether they were for municipal services, whether they were for tax, anything simply, bills must be paid, regardless of these irresponsible announcements and irresponsible promises of the barrel pushers on the streets. The second reason why, unfortunately, there are perpetrators is a devastating policy that has been led in this country for too long, for years, decades, a policy that has promised 200 thousand new jobs before the elections, and then for four years by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic and DS, 400,000 people are out of work. What makes these people pay their bills? These are the people who are waiting for the executioner, pulled out of the barrel as scheduled in 2009 or out of the drum or drawn in alphabetical order, the people that the former regime left out of work. These are the people who are waiting for the perpetrators today, not because they won't, because Mr. Zoran Zivkovic promised them, but because they don't. Because it is their irresponsible authority, the former regime has left them without a future. What are we gonna do with these people? It's painful for them. Therefore, the willingness of this government to settle the area in a fairer, more normal, more transparent manner, unfortunately what is just a moment ago without reason to call him on the line, but because of that concern of Mr Pavicevic, will we be in turn to Shormaz? They'll get to Shormaz very soon, because there's a lot of people out of work. They're $400,000. From A to S comes in 30 cases, and we have 400,000 people who unfortunately lost their jobs. When we add to them those who have lost their future to robbery privatisations, and out of two thousand and some privatisations, the former regime boasted 22, 23, with one percent success. Don't worry about it, don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. You better take better care of those whom you have given false hope and promised some barrel in Nis Square and told them, "You do not have to pay your bills for having deceived them." Instead of saying this now -- people, I'm sorry, we made a mistake, you're trying to tell the legislator something that isn't. What if we had used a parallel right, using what is written in other laws, to foresee other possibilities? A little bit in this room, people, even fewer people watching us, know that, say, Article 21. The law on municipal police provides that – a municipal police officer can be sentenced to jail for up to six months. That's what the former regime's parties predicted when they introduced municipal police officers. What if we used a parallel right and said, as in the Law of Banks, a bankruptcy administrator may be sentenced to jail for up to six months? What, and should we in this law apply these provisions that you have put in place, that bankruptcy directors be convicted criminals or perpetrators to be convicted criminals? We do not want to observe our judicial system in this way, we do not want to belittle our citizens. We primarily want to fight once for every investment, fight for every job, summit today and in the next days in Belgrade, to secure more work, to heal public finances, to discuss this with the 2015 budget next week, to all those measures that we want to heal our country, to have less work to do, even though former ministers and closest associates, co-workers of justice, are the ones who wrote such a law on enforcement and security. It is the work of this government, and no matter how many of us we trip, no matter how much we cheer for it, we will succeed because of it and thus get a mandate from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15972	Borislav Stefanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15973	I'm sorry to see there's a certain misunderstanding. We have supported the path of the promoter and Mrs. Pilia can confirm it. We have raised suspicions based on information that the perpetrators give to the messengers. We didn't accuse anyone, we didn't bring anyone up in connection with crimes, furniture and the like, except in questionable form that is now allowed because Mr Arsenovic is chaired. Otherwise I'm not allowed. But the tour of the barrel is good, Mr. Babic, and what the barrels are doing next says that the prime minister who is not Prime Minister is to teach you. The Prime Minister does not exist, it is an irregular language structure, refused to pay municipal bills, boasted publicly. In the Fisheries Lands Act, you predicted that whoever committed the crime could hire them. You personally, not you personally, but your majority. Don't point your finger at us all the time, when you're doing everything that DS has done in the past, just so much worse, much worse, Mr. Granny. You're saying you think an executor who has nothing to do with you, has nothing to do with it, will be able to collect from citizens claims that cannot otherwise be paid. Just explain to us how? And just explain to us whether this lady I mentioned by name, here's only one example, of 700,000 euros, has anything to do with SNS? Here, tell the MPs if it has anything to do with the SNS? You, as a high-ranking official, should know that. That's all you have to answer. No other stories, 400,000 jobs. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Who? Just say the word, she heard Mrs. Pilla's name and last name. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Name and last name, who? I said. So that's what you answer us, not to tell us about the Prime Minister, which doesn't exist, not to tell us about what DS is, as if nowhere in the world the perpetrators exist, only in Serbia is it made up, then put them out. Stop the executioners, why do you need it, why do we need other things? The law of the police, of the army? Get the DS, get it over with. You're destroying the basics of civilization, not the Republic of one country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15974	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15975	I'm advocating a violation of members of 107 can't be insulted this way by Parliament's dignity and all of us. That's when someone says, from your party, someone for 700,000 euros, say by name and last name who they are. It's not a quiz, it's not a quiz. We say a name and a last name for each of their thieves.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15976	Please, Mr. Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15977	This really doesn't make any sense. In the future, let him say his name and last name, so we can talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15978	The word is Dragan Sutanovac, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15979	Dear colleague Arsenovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not know what should happen in this assembly to apply article 107 and punish, of course, the MP who calls his colleagues thieves. The fact that you express the surprise that someone is so rude, rude, blasphemy, that's one thing. But you have the authority to apply. So if someone tells a colleague that a thief should simply give a warning in the form of a financial penalty, as has been done to some other MPs. If you don't shut up, maybe you were just thought of by a colleague, Djukanovic, because we were in the coalition until a while ago and we're accusing ourselves of that time. So, I ask you to apply the provisions of Rule 107, which prevents any MP in the Serbian parliament from acting so arrogantly, primitively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15980	Mr. Sutanovac, unfortunately, I didn't, at least I didn't hear, I can't say that anyone named an MP said he was a thief. What is attributed to, "the thief," let's use such a word, for the former regime, so I was then, you're right, but I think I'm not a thief, I can't even say that you are, according to who is found, and there was. According to the trom, I remain, agreeing with dignity only in this sense that we are really having a dignified debate in this assembly, and I support it from the heart whoever so supports it and asks, whether the left or right side, the center, doesn't matter, I will support it, but simply you must understand that the subject is such that a man goes out, it's convenient for me to have someone here and control it now, and in that sense I don't think there't have been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you have the right to state whether in the day to vote... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: yes.) ) Yes, well, in the day of the vote, we will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The violation of Rules of Procedure Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15981	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member of 103th and 104th, especially that part of which is said to be uninvited to a member where I've already called. I called on Article 107, Mr. Little-time speaker also called for it, you had to warn him, and in saying, I didn't mean any MPs here at all, I meant in general. If anyone recognizes themselves, I'm really sorry, I apologize, always to the saint and the troupe, I tell everyone what I think and if I think someone's a thief, and he's in their ranks, I'll tell them in his eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15982	I have to tell Djukanovic again to you, I don't see that you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but rather, it's kind of a replica. What you said, that's what I told Mr. Sutanovac. I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Do you want in the voting day to declare the assembly? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: No. ) (Biljana Pantic Pija, from the place: I am looking for a word. ) (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. Just a minute. Since I've got more people here, I've got to ask Biljana as a promoter... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I have the replica Mr. Babic. I know you have a replica, just to ask Biljana, do you have any replicas or do you want... (Biljana Pantic Pija, from town: To answer. Then I ask you to finish the replica first. Mr. Pavicevic, you want a replica, but I don't understand the basis of the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15983	Here, I'll tell you, Mr. Arsenović. Mr. Babic mentioned it twice, and so on my last name: Pavicevic. Please give me the right to a replica because Mr. Babic said twice, Pavicevic. I think that's the basis for the replica. Please check, Mr. Arsenović, in the stenogram. That's verifiable.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15984	Mr. Pavicevic, I'm sure he didn't mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15985	So ask him. Mr. Granny, did you mention my last name?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15986	The word is Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15987	I said - Mr Pavicevic, without wanting to invite him to the replica in an extremely affirmative sense [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I signed up for the replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15988	I know, but there's no basis. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Now you want to make a circus. I'm setting a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word is by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15990	Thank you. I just wanted to respond to claims that some perpetrators are members of the Serbian Progressive Party. This proposal to amend the law aims to make it no longer relevant who is a member, and you have made it possible, gentlemen who passed such a law in 2011, that there are conditions for abuses and that the perpetrator can one be hired by 700,000 euros or whatever money he already has. So that's the problem. We're changing the law now. So it doesn't matter if the executioner is a member of SNS, DS, because we know that you're used to swimming in such conditions, but we're changing it now by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15991	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, on what grounds? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. No, you have no basis for replication. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. ) The word has Mr Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15992	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So it's the one who's been writing the law that's been being implemented in the last two years since you've been in power. Very interesting concept. I ask you if Mrs Isidora Rankovic has anything to do with the Serbian Progressive Party, whether Mr Mihajlo Dragovic has anything to do with the Serbian Progressive Party, whether Ratko Vidovic, whether the partner society Panic-Nikolic, Ivan Mladenovic, Vojislav Milajic, etc.? I got a whole list here. I asked you, there are reasonable doubts, I think even there are members of the Serbian Progressive Party, but that's aside. It is not correct when a political organisation is called, which you do all the time, including colleagues. To remind you, counterpart Tomic has been arrested for "Universal Bank", which you have ruined for the amount of salary and pension savings. If I claimed then that my colleague Tomic couldn't be the only one responsible, because you also had Mr. Djelitovic, who was chairman of the board there, you have other people who are directly responsible and not brought in, and then you looked at me strangely, as you are now. So don't accuse us. Look into your ranks first, and then contact us, since the SNS MP has been arrested, and you've pointed out that as a great thing and your consistency. So be consistent until the end. That's all I ask. The second thing, I don't understand why the problem is if we tell you that you need to change the law in this sense, we just have a grudge in the way you choose an executioner. To further ensure that no such abuses occur, you return everything to the policy domain, i.e. I don't know what, when it's clear that abuses have been committed in the last two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15993	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word is by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15994	I just have to answer, since you're talking politics. I have already mentioned that the President of the Chamber of Executive is a member of the Democratic Party. He is a member of the Democratic Party. Only if he hasn't moved on to this other Democratic Party lately. That's the only problem. There was a recommendation from the Chamber to take care of the even distribution of the subject. Why wasn't that done? I have to mention again that the law was passed in 2011 and has been applied since then. You didn't do anything about that question. The law was passed by you in your party rooms, and now it is the Serbian Progressive Party's fault. Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15995	MP Zoran Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15996	I thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the previous speaker, Mr. Stefanovic, for the opportunity to score. If two of my only objections to my earlier speech and opinions made from 13-14 minutes of linguistic nature are correct, is the Prime Minister or Prime Minister right, here, I admit, he corrected me, I'll learn. Thank you for that, if that's the only objection to something that's been said, and it was a lot more essential stuff. Thank you for the point: Isidora Rankovic and the list, as counterpart Stefanovic said, people who have committed abuses over the past two years. I will publicly invite Mr Stefanovic here now to make a criminal complaint against those persons if they have committed abuses, to explain it nicely. I will sign the first criminal report if Mr. Stefanovic will sign the second. The Serbian Progressive Party is not a safe house for anyone who commits abuse. He had one, two, ten books, had numbers in his phone, I don't know who in this country, it wouldn't protect him from the hand of justice, and that's why I'm very explicitly ready to show it again in action. If they're party members, I don't know. And if they were and they weren't, the same will happen because of abuse, but what I do know is that former Justice Minister Dejan Pasic, one of the biggest perpetrators in Belgrade and a member of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15997	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15998	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I am aware that you in your ranks, even those who were once in the DS, consider themselves to be Democrats. It's a good message to these defects, to know that you'll never look at them with the eyes they expect. For you, they will always be yellow, but for us they will never be Democrats again. They've been advanced for a long time. Two years, undermining, enforcing the law we passed six months before the fall of power. There's two and a half years of cake and a knife in your hands. Now it's the one who wrote it, and otherwise it's the judges who are still in the working group today, who are from matter, Mr. Babic. It has nothing to do with the Democratic Party. Otherwise, let me tell you, it's not the people on the list. It is those who have made it possible for them, the directors of your party's public enterprises and those who are co-ordinators in the government, who have determined who will receive a few items. These people are, and those who are on the list, they are your favorite word – flow water heaters for money. That's the problem in Serbia. You know very well and mention it, Mrs. Pilia, I'm sorry she's not here, has mentioned the President of the Chamber of Executive. He's not the president, but he's not a member of the DS, he's a member of another party, which is not democratic, but he's not much of an opposition, but I can see whether he's going to go to the government or not. The lady's name is Treshnyev Alexandera. So it's not the president, it's the male, it's the female and it's a member of each other's party, one of you soon, very soon. It's not related. I just want to underline that I'm sorry that Mrs. Pilia doesn't know who the president of the execution chamber is, and the proposer is the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u15999	I think we're already losing the sense of the replica. Please, let's get this over with. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic, a replica, but I ask you not to call directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16000	Here, I will thank again the professor of Serbian language and grammar, the famous linguist. Is there a Mrs. President, as counterpart Biljana Pilja said, whether or not in what aggregate state DS is, that's not so important either. It's more important what he does and how he works. For the hundredth time, she stayed in the air. I said, "Here, I will sign a criminal report against those for whom the previous speaker claimed to have committed abuses." Now I say, no, it's not their fault. It's someone else's fault now. Well, file a complaint against those others, and I'll sign it, and I'll support it, because the SNS is basically, at the core, essentially to fight every kind of corruption, against every kind of crime, against all the perversions of this society, which you've entered whether six months before it falls from power or three or all of that time that the government has been committed for, but explain. It's easy from a congregation pay phone to say abuse. Let's fix them. The Serbian Progressive Party corrects exactly this way, because we don't care whether it's a member or not. All that matters is that it's done by law and proper. That is why we have proposed this law, that no one can, even if it was Dejan Pasic, even if it was the former, future or current member of the DS or some party of the former regime. Just because I want us to correct these irregularities, because we owe no one anything, because no law is passed at the will of the individual, but for the general good, for the benefit of the state, for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If you have a good will, if you have the truth, and we've heard of some court or don't know what, which amounted to 180,000, so we didn't get their name. As of now, we are not going to get a criminal record of a reasoned, but of harsh politics and a violation of all the principles of the National Assembly to use the congregation’s pay phone to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16001	We're done with the replicas. Since the list of parliamentary groups has no longer been declared for the word, I ask before the opening of the original search whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word is wanted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'll take a break, and we'll continue after the break. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I have time for an authorised representative. All right, I'll give you my word after the break. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws and other acts in the agenda as soon as possible. In accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a regular break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16002	Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to exercise their rights under Article 96? Rules of Procedure? (No) According to Article 98(4), I am concluding my Rules of Procedure a principled review on the draft law. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda. You have received a list of candidates for the selection of one member of the National Educational Council and the Report of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society. Before the search opens, I remind you that it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary groups. I ask the MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately with the order of MPs, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. According to Article 203. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall open a search on the list of candidates for the selection of one member of the National Educational Council. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: This is incorrect, now it is 15.01 hours. ) Mr. Stefanovic, be here at 15.00 hours when the session begins. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene: "It sucks, you see how many of us are at the session." It's not right. ) You see, someone has a duty to the session and is there in time, and if you Mr. Jovanovic always have some objections. (John Jovanovic, from the post: It is now 15.01 pm. ) Mr. Jovanovic, I start the session at 15.00 hours when it's said. Whoever's in the O.R. is attending the session, I can't wait for everyone to come. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: It is incorrect. ) Mr Stefanovic, I asked if anyone else wanted a word in Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Thank you. We'll wait for the promoter to bring the card. Here, we've been waiting for the promoter to bring the card. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16003	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Thank you for this wait, you've started a little bit of a sudden...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16004	Miss Jerkov, we are not suddenly, but at exactly 15.00 hours when it is said that the session will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16005	The chairman before you didn't tell you until when you needed... It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16006	Ms. Jerkov, for the sake of the public, Mr. Chairman said at that time - continued work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16007	Okay, before that, he gave the word to Borislav Stefanovic, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16008	I'm sorry some MPs weren't in the O.R. at the time. I'd be happy to give my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16009	We were, we were. It's strange enough that you weren't. On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, I submitted to the President of the National Assembly a report on the work of our committee at the session held on 4 December 2014. On 26 June 2014, our committee established a proposal for a decision on the discharge of Prof. Dr. Zorana Lužanin as a member of the National Educational Council on her personal request, because she was elected Assistant Minister Srdjan Verbić. We sent the proposal to the National Assembly with a proposal to be adopted by the National Assembly at its plenary session. The National Assembly did so in the last session, and this resulted in conditions for us to choose a new member of the National Educational Council today, although for a very short period, since all members of the National Educational Council are running out of mandate on 15 March and the Committee is already in the process of electing new members of the National Educational Council. In the meantime, the University of Novi Sad, who also proposed Professor Dr. Zoran Lužanin, proposed two new candidates. These are Prof. Dr. Rade Doroslovaki, a regular professor of the Faculty of Engineering in Novi Sad and Professor Mirjana Segedinac, who is a regular professor of the Natural Mathematical Faculty in Novi Sad. On 4 December 2014, our committee held a session in which it concluded that the list of candidates had been submitted by an authorised applicant referred to in Article 13(3). The law on basic education and education, or the University of Novi Sad, and that the list contains more candidates than the number of members elected, which is also one of the legal conditions. What the Assembly needs to do, we have this list as the University of Novi Sad suggested, forwarded to the National Assembly, the Assembly between these two candidates should choose one candidate. That's what we should do in voting day. As much as an authorised representative of the board. When we begin the debate, I will report on behalf of my parliamentary group to my opinion on the candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16010	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. Do representatives or heads of Parliament want a word? The word is Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16011	Dear Mr. Becic, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am also a member of the committee whose report was submitted by my colleague Jerkov, and I can say that as far as the selection procedure is concerned, a broad list of candidates from which we should choose a member of the National Educational Council, everything was regular in accordance with the law and sublaws. That's what my colleague Jerkov already explained. The question arises as to why the candidates were so late, if about six months ago, Lužanin was appointed Assistant Minister, and even if it was waiting so long, why did the regular procedure not wait, given that the one we choose would be in the National Educational Council only until April of the month. I'm saying the procedure was conducted by law, there were multiple candidates. Five candidates from different colleges. All candidates met the requirements and one democratic procedure was implemented. The candidate of Doroslovaki, professor of the Technical Faculty in Novi Sad, received twice as many votes as the next candidate, that's Professor Segedinac. Everything would be fine, we would define ourselves in the voting day in accordance with this procedure and the biographies of candidates that you all have attached. Both candidates meet all conditions. They're regular teachers. They were involved in improving education and education. They're from a natural mathematical profession. So it's all clear here. However, I would like to point out that these days I have received several calls from a colleague from Novi Sad, from the University of Novi Sad, from the Technical Faculty above all. Among them are members of the student parliament who pointed out and asked me to mention it in the Assembly that Mr. Doroslovsky was actively involved, I don't know whether he was a member or not, but during the election campaigns he spoke at the SNS, which they grade, especially students, as inadmissible when it comes to the function of the Dean of a Faculty. So, I'm just making comments from some colleagues from New Sad. Now my personal opinion and the opinion of our parliamentary group. Both candidates meet the conditions. We think that something better is Professor Segedinac's candidate, especially considering that Mr. Doroslovsky is in charge of the dean. It's one responsible function, but in some ways there's no conflict of interest, but it's better if he's not in this. We'll vote for Professor Segedinac in Voting Day. So to conclude, the procedure was carried out properly. We have two candidates. For one we have defined ourselves in no way, regardless of the comments of some college colleagues and students, we do not want to and do not think of meddling in the autonomy of the university. The Senate has chosen the two candidates, especially the first candidate who has twice as many votes as the next. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16012	I thank Mr Stojadinovic. He has the word as an authorised representative of the MP's group National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16013	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I'll just say it first on behalf of the Proposer, or the Committee. On June 26th, the committee found the resignation of Zorana Lužanin. We sent it to the congregation. Why did the Assembly not decide earlier, it is simply not a question for the Committee, and the University of Novi Sad only proposed when the resignation of the previous member who resigned because of the election as assistant minister was established. I'd like the same thing on behalf of the DS parliamentary group to speak a word about the candidates. I would like to join Academyman Stojadinovic in calling on MPs not to vote for Radet Doroslovaki's candidate in the day of voting, and I will also try to explain why I believe that no MP should do so. Mr. Rade Doroslovsky became public known for several scandals that followed his work. First, it should be said that it is not only known to the public. He's primarily a famous DRI. I have here a report by the auditors on the revision of the final account and the regularity of the Business Faculty of Technical Sciences in Novi Sad for 2013 on 160 pages of irregularities identified in the business of this university where Mr. Doroslovaki is the principal and responsible and who, among other things, is responsible for the implementation of the budget of that university. The auditor identified these 160 pages of irregularities that the university carried out the supply of goods and services worth 18 million 488 thousand dinars not implemented under the Law on Public Procurement and the Law on the Budgetary System and that: did not carry out an open procurement procedure for the insurance services carried out in the amount of four million 220 thousand dinars, for part of the insurance services carried out in the amount of 2 million dinars, the college did not carry out the public procurement procedure in accordance with the Public Procurement Act because it made commitments, made payment of 949 000 dinars without written contract and the public procurement procedure implemented, although under the provisions of Article 7. The public procurement law does not exempt this service from the application of the Law, assumes obligations and makes payments of a million and 340 000 dinars under the contract, which are concluded with the service provider after the small-value public procurement procedure has been carried out, although the conditions laid down in Article 39 have not been met. Public procurement laws. He provided goods and equipment in the amount of 14 million 268,000 without the application of the Public Procurement Act, although there were no grounds for exemption from the application of the Law prescribed by Article 7. Public procurement laws, the terms of a team of three million 280 thousand dinars, the services of intervention of 700 thousand dinars, photocopying and use of two million 818 thousand dinars, goods – gasoline worth millions of 922 thousand dinars, equipment, photocopiers, 10 photocopiers worth two million 847 thousand dinars. Therefore, the State Auditor, on 160 pages, identified irregularities in the business of the Faculty of Technical Sciences, whose dean is Mr. Doroslovsky, who is here proposed as a member of the National Educational Council, and at the beginning the auditor found that it was the responsibility of the Dean to prepare and present the final account in accordance with the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on Higher Education, the Statute of the Faculty of Technical Sciences, and found that the errors in this report were precisely the error of the Dean. Next, Dean Doroslovsky is not only known for it. Dean Doroslovsky is also known for firing, trying to fire the best scientist the University of Novi Sad has in the past few decades. It is a matter of Dr Ivana Kovacic, where the dean directly prevented a competition that would allow her to be elected as a regular professor. I think the MPs, but the citizens, too, will be able to recall the case. This is a case that has reached the international scientific community and has not brought about a good reputation or the Faculty of Technical Sciences or the University of Novi Sad or the entire academic community. That woman was not the only one, as it will later be seen, the victim of dean Doroslovakia's insolent and arrogant behaviour. I think that Mr. Atlagic is very often talking about this self-willed dean and that he will be able to identify in any way teachers who for any reason are persecuted, who are not at the will of the dean, regardless of their professional, scientific and personal achievements. In mid-April of this year, the Faculty of Technical Sciences again became interested in the public when the dean tried, fortunately unsuccessfully, to change the statute so that he practically became immeasurable. He tried to do it on his own by misleading members of the university council. He, in effect, proposed to amend the Statute by which he became immeasurable. It abolishes the Council's authority and introduces a procedure that can only be resolved on the proposal of a teaching and scientific council which he himself presides. So he practically made it irreplaceable. I think there was even an initiative, Mr. Martinovic may know better, that the opinion he is chairing is also requested. I don't know if that's what's been formalized in the end. I know there was an idea to do something like that. It was established and the court found that dean Doroslovsky had no right to do so and to act against the law. This brings us to another thing that Rade Doroslovsky forgot to mention in the biography that was delivered to us here as ambassadors. In his official biography, which is still on the site of FTNA, which he competed with at the Dean of the Faculty of Engineering in Novi Sad, stated that he had completed two universities, a natural mathematical college, a group of mathematics in Novi Sad, where he graduated in 1976, and that he studied parallel to mathematics and engineering and absorbed in time. Also, during the study of engineering he has some achievements there, etc. After all, these were the reasons why he was elected to the Dean of the Faculty of Technical Sciences in Novi Sad, where he is a machine, not a mathematics, one of the basics. However, Mr Doroslovaki forgot in this biography he provided to us to say that the "Official List" of 19.9.2014 published the following solution on page 18. I ask the MPs to listen, because in the day of the vote they need to make a statement as to whether they will support this candidate. So, this is from the "Official Messenger" – a solution to the Faculty of Technical Sciences, number 01-2090, as of 19.9.2014, is advertised to an invalid diploma on completed basic and academic studies in the study programme of energy and process techniques, thermal engineering, number 012-B-8/M, since 18.5.2008, issue in the name of Rade Doroslovaki. So it's a man who's been denied a degree in engineering, and that's the official biography he's running with for Dean of the Faculty of Engineering in Novi Sad. Since mathematics is not a primary subject at the Faculty of Technical Sciences, the question arises whether it would be elected a dean without that degree which, as we can see, has been annulled? Furthermore, I have a serious dilemma as to whether Mr. Doroslovsky has any legal basis, except for this cancelled degree, to be elected to the National Educational Council, because the Law on the Foundations of the Educational and Educational System in Article 13, which speaks precisely about members of the National Educational Council, says who cannot be a member of the Council. The law says – for a member of the National Educational Council, a person who has been appointed, elected or appointed to office in a state body, a body of territorial autonomy, or a local self-government, a person elected to the authority of a political party or a body of the management of an institution, a person employed in a ministry, a body for improving education and education, an institution for estimating the quality of education and education, an institution for textbooks and teaching resources, as well as municipal educational inspectors. I believe Mr. Doroslovsky is now belonging to that group of people who are forbidden by law to be elected to the National Educational Council. This assembly gave, at a time when it was chaired by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2nd indent 2) of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which explains who the official is. We have said in this authentic interpretation, says – the official is each elected, appointed or appointed face of the authority of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, units of local self-government and bodies of public enterprises and companies, institutions and other organisations whose founder is an autonomous province, units of local self-government and other persons elected by the National Assembly. Autonomous province is the founder of the University of Novi Sad. According to this definition, Professor Rade Doroslovsky does not even have the legal opportunities to be a valid candidate on which we will plead in the voting day, i.e. according to this he is in conflict of interest. Let's see what Mr. Doroslovsky recommends. In fact, he does not consider the AP founder of the University of Novi Sad, which he showed last week when he banned the province's secretary for science and education, Mr Vladimir Pavlov, from speaking on behalf of the founder at a meeting organised by the university at the request of the minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Zorana Mihajlovic. It is obvious that Minister Mihajlovic attended the meeting not as Deputy Prime Minister, but as a SNS official, which is her right and should be dealt with by the Anti-Corruption Agency, but I am also afraid that Mr Doroslovaski did not act as the Dean of the Faculty of Technical Sciences, whose founder is AP Vojvodina, but as an activist or sympathiser, a member, I really do not know what kind of relationship with the SNS, but apparently as a close SNS man. These are all data that are very available and very verifiable. However, the situation in which the citizens may have heard best and heard the most about Dean Doroslovakia is exactly the scandal he staged in a pre-election campaign, when he addressed the Faculty of Technical Sciences in a SNS rally on behalf of the Faculty of Engineering. It happened on February 21st in Novi Sad, at a rally organised by the SNS. Maybe the president will remember, and she has to decide on this, that's exactly the rally she was saying the opposition should be abolished...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16014	You can only adjust your exposure a little bit and explain with dignity why you won't support this candidate, but no offense, without mentioning certain things that have nothing to do with this candidate's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16015	The Dean's participation in the SNS rally must certainly be one of the reasons why we consider...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16016	We can't tell now whether someone participated as a private person or in the function of an institution, so please don't use it as an argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16017	The problem is, Mr. Becic, that's where Dean Doroslovsky found that he was speaking on behalf of the university.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16018	We don't know that right now, and I'm asking you to continue to explain why you don't want to support that candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16019	So, I believe that Mr. Doroslovakia's first law does not allow him to perform a function he may be elected to by the votes of the SNS. I think his relationship with employees at the Faculty of Technical Sciences disqualifies him from being in the National Educational Council. I think the DRI report on 160 pages of irregularity says that it is certainly not a man who should take care of the education of primary and secondary school students. I believe that a man who illegally tries to change the statutes, so that he could not be removed, is also not a man who should be involved in the education of our children. I believe that someone who forbids the founder's representative, for the sake of fulfilling the wishes of the Deputy Prime Minister, to address the meeting, at which he was to address all the rules, should not be in the National Educational Council. Someone who has been invalidated should also not take care of child diplomas in primary and secondary schools, but if the address at the SNS rally recommends it for the post, then some MPs vote as they think it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16020	Thank you. Mr. Granny, I assume you're looking for a replica to mention the SNS. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16021	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. What I have to react is for two reasons. One thing is the profession, the other a matter of politics. What has been said and with all the respect for the European values on which the colleague has mastered, I don't think she's qualified enough to talk about that mathematics isn't dominant in the schools of technical sciences. You have to show a little bit more effort than walking past some college of technical sciences, whether he was Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Construction, anything and seeing that mathematics is dominant, mathematics is basically almost all 42 exams I passed at the University of Belgrade Engineering. It's about the profession, and it really doesn't say that math isn't dominant in technical science. I don't know what's gonna be dominant? Maybe mechanics? But mechanics are made up and based on math. So, absolutely whatever the object we open away from the cover, and we've seen some MPs read just the front page law, when you go a little further away from that front page, you'll see that there's all mathematics in technical colleges. What it is is politics, which is that the speech of a man at a SNS rally or any other party, as he does not qualify, should not disqualify him. Why? Let's remind ourselves of all those rallying democratic parties, all those people that showed up here. Some because they had to, some because their hands were twisted behind their backs, and some because they were honored, let's say, to the directorial places after that. I'm not going to be grounded enough, so accepted because I appreciate the artistic values of some people who have come true, say, in the film world. Who were jiggling at the myths of the DS and after that they were honored with management and directorial posts in some theatres. What about it? What about it? And that, not that they were proposed by the collective, and at this point, as Professor academic colleague Ninoslav said, that these were the two candidates who received the support of the collective. Get support from those people who work with them, who know better than you do, and me. Why disqualify the opinion of those people they've worked with, who they're working with? A colleague who was disqualified just because he showed up at the SNS rally, God damn it, he's got an immeasurably higher vote of the collective, but we'll appreciate the opinion of whoever says that mathematics is not basically technical science. So what's that? Politics? Some things I can't and I won't understand why people are disqualified because of their presence. You may have a video of the people who attended the rally. Do they not have the right to live in Serbia, perhaps under such a measure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16022	Excuse me, Mr. Pavicevic, please allow me. I apologize to the MPs, I didn't follow the time at the moment, and I didn't see that the time for replica was up. At the moment, I thought he was speaking as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Once again, I apologize for time being too long and will bounce away from the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic. J
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Rules of Procedure in Rule 104 have been injured by you, Mr. Becic. In Article 104, the right to replication and rules applicable to a speaker using the right to replication shall be defined. In the last position of Article 104, respected gentlemen writes – the replica cannot last longer than two minutes, gentlemen. We were all witnesses here now, Mr. Becic, please allow me to explain the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16024	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Please, Mr. Becic. I have the right to explain the replica in my two minutes. Please, Mr. Becic, what is this all about? It is a matter of needless violation of the Rules of Procedure if I have already said in advance that I apologize to the MPs because I have allowed time to be exceeded. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure. I'm setting a three-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16025	Give this measure of warning to yourself, injuring yourself, Mr. Becic, and let it go to the Administrative Board, so that Mr. Babic may give himself a fine of 6,000 dinars. You cannot, with one apology, justify the measures at the National Assembly session, Mr. Becic. It's a warning measure to itself and that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16026	Mr Pavicevic, I think citizens have the opportunity to see how you behave at the National Assembly session
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16027	The citizens see well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16028	I've just accepted a mistake that I haven't followed the time and that it's been a minute more than it was possible to speak by law, by the replica. I took that time away from the time of the parliamentary group or from the time of the authorised representative, and there was no mess at the National Assembly session because one speaker had spoken for a minute. Mr. Pavicevic, you spoke several times in the line and why you did not give yourself a warning then.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16029	I'm not the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16030	Okay, well, next time I won't let you finish your sentence, talk for more than two minutes. Thank you. We're going back to work. There is a word, a replica, a folk letter from the magistrate of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16031	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I think Mr. Babic misread what I said. He thinks I said that I disqualify Mr. Doroslovaki by speaking on behalf of the university at the SNS rally. He didn't seem to have heard the first 15 minutes of my presentation in which I was saying everything disqualifying him, which is from a cancelled degree through the DRI report to the illegal change of statutes, to the doubts I raised about whether he could be a candidate at all, etc. I just ended up saying that I hope he's not recommending it by saying it at the SNS rally and that's my hope that I can just say it one more time, and it disqualifies him all of that before I think there can be no dispute. After all, it is everyone's right to decide how to vote. I'm just surprised now that we're talking about how important it is that who had so many votes in the collective that he suggested that we'd forgotten that most in the assembly here, just a few weeks ago for the presidents of the courts voted people who in their collectives had one vote and probably their own. These are judges, among those who have been promoted as new members of the SNS. So I think that if we're going to measure who the collective supported, who it didn't, then let's keep sticking to it, not when we choose judges, the president of the courts, to choose those who got one vote. With the hand twisting, who's going to attend the rally, they're probably best aware of the children of the Obrenovac that you're taking them out of school to come and touch Vukic, and then go eat pasta because they haven't made their houses yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16032	The word has a folk MP, head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16033	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that the colleague meant the 37 houses that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the help of friends from all over the world, restored and which the president of the state and the president of the Government of the Republic of Serbia shared with those who lost their roof over their heads in May floods, which is the pleasure of those people who won't stay on the street, will not wait for the winter on the street turned into a twist of arms, then says more about a colleague who said it. I'm always about people wondering and respecting their opinion, but on this principle, a colleague who spoke before me would have to speak primarily to his party leader, Mr. Pajtic. How is it possible for someone who demands and baseds their policy on values, on democratic values, to retain full power in the AP Vojvodina and has the support of 6% of people in Serbia? How is it possible to question someone who in his collective has received unmistakably greater support, and not question that only 6% of the people in Vojvodina said they wanted Bojan Pajtic and DS to continue to lead them? What are the higher arches? You can't just turn your head and say – now it suits us to use it, so it doesn't suit us a little bit, so now we're going to consume some tools, so now we won't. It's okay, I am, people have to wonder. What they say in the elections is sacred, and people in Vojvodina said no Bojan Pajtic, not DS, will not help instead, siphons and all that you buried the pensioners, not the Capital Investment Fund in that way, not Agrobank, not Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16034	Time, Mr. Granny. Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has an authorised representative, Dr Milorad Mijatovic. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: And I have no right) You called late, but when I gave my word to Mr. Mijatovic
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16035	I'm not going to speak the way it was said here. I will refer to what two colleagues are constantly talking about ethics and morality. I think this is exactly the time to talk about ethics and morality. We have two candidates behind whom the University of Novi Sad has stood. We respect what they said and their attitudes. Academic took it out, and I'm asking you to take care of it. Being a professor and a politician, I'm both a teacher and a politician. I teach students, I teach this mathematics, and at the same time I'm a politician, I speak here in the Assembly and in the Mythins. No one's ever resented me before. He won't mind, because my maths I teach are completely separate from politics. There are theorems about other problems, mathematically. So let's not mix those two things up. Why am I saying that? A colleague of Rada Doroslovaki and I, together we received a Ph.D. at the same natural and mathematical university, in a college that is very serious, with very high scientific references. Thus, the titles of Doctor of Mathematics at the Natural-Mathematic Faculty in Novi Sad have extraordinary weight. And so, please, don't let us insult everyone. Don't let us bring everything down to the field of petty politics. There are people who have worked, who have created and who have reached the top of their scientific field. One of these is Dr. Rade Doroslovsky. To be more specific, and more personal, we've known each other for 22 years, and together we've written a book, a very serious book that we've published. So it's about a man who's competent, who has scientific references and who knows very well about education. We have been very much discussing our school system together, since he worked in math high school and how he follows the state of education, he wants to promote it. I ask here that the competence of Professor Radet Doroslovačko be spoken in accordance with his scientific work, his scientific and professional work. Political engagement, if there is, I don't know, I didn't talk to him. I am the same as Professor Rade Doroslovsky, mathematician, but also politician. The fact that I'm a politician, that's what I use to talk to you, here, in the Assembly, that's what I use to do, that's where I talk to you, that's where I'm gonna talk to you, that's where I'm gonna use it, that's where I'm gonna talk to you, that's where I'm gonna talk to you, that's where my party accepts me to speak at the myths. I use policy to achieve some of the results I want in this Serbia, in education, in science, to achieve more and more important. One more thing, the Faculty of Technical Sciences is one of the largest universities in New Sad University, which has a very high rating. At this Faculty, Professor Rade Doroslovsky taught at one of the strongest universities, which is the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, where mathematics is the basis. Whoever studied knows very well what it is. It's the university that's currently training the most informative. That means somewhere in Novi Sad, you now have 3500 young people dealing with information. You have scientific parks that do business and work. Yesterday I had a meeting with a delegation from Korea, I don't know, some colleagues were with me, I just asked people from Korea to come to Novi Sad to hire our people to bring jobs. So we have one of the colleges that we need to be confident about exporting my own mind. We're now attacking the man who's doing it, who's doing it very successfully. I'd never use those references to bring something good down to the field of politics, and then make it all miserable. We often do it here in our home. Let's really watch how we live, which is our reality, and let it go, it's politics that will later perform some of the things that it does or doesn't perform. Since it's one of the two candidates, respecting the attitude of the University of Novi Sad, we'll have two candidates here to plead once. Mr. Rade Doroslovsky is a friend of mine. He didn't call me. He won't even call me, and whoever I vote for, I'll do it in public here. All Serbian citizens will see in what way. But I ask you never to let people who have worked hard in their lives, who are scientificly competent, who have created and created, let's not devalue them here. Let's point out what they've done well, what they're doing well. Often life isn't politics, but without politics sometimes you can't live. So political engagement, if it exists, I'm not going to get into it, put it in another plan. When I'm graded by students, when I'm graded by my fellow professors, when they choose me, they watch my scientific references, watch what I've written, do, my scientific papers, how much I quote, we all forget how much I've done, how many doctors I've done, and that's why professional and scientific competence is appreciated. So I'm asking you to have respect for these people, and how we're going to define ourselves, we're going to see that in the voting day. So I ask you that this debate goes that way, respecting what people have created, done, and choosing between the two good candidates the best candidates. It's democracy. I'm fighting for this democracy as a representative of the SDPS, and I'm going to fight, and I'm going to take care of ethics and morality. Ethics and morality are seen in arguments, in fact in the number of scientific papers, in the number of cited works, in how many books you have written, how many professional articles you have written, that is what this country, this country, can lead forward. They won't lead those who just talk and verify everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16036	Thank you, Mr. Mijatovic. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? We're moving on to the list of speakers, as Mr. Zivkovic is not in the O.R., nor is Mr. Risticevic. Do you, Mr. Risticevic, I didn't understand if you wanted to speak? (Marian Risticevic, from town: Yes. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm disappointed that my fellow farmer isn't here, he didn't even graduate from college and he wrote the Higher Education Act. So I expected him to contribute and give his view of the moral characteristics of these two candidates. I would appreciate such a favor from my colleague, since I have no experience with the Law on Higher Education, but given what I've heard about candidate Doroslovakia, as soon as the Democrats speak so badly of him, he must be good. I'll vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16038	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the election of a member of the National Educational Council. So today we are discussing education and education issues that are important for education, gentlemen. I think it's an important topic and we need to cultivate an appropriate approach to such a serious topic. Let me remind you here, because maybe it's the first time that some people have heard it, that ancient writers can suggest some reading works, suggest respected gentlemen, that out of all the things we've been getting since we were kids, education is the most important thing. And that's why it's important, I think that this is exactly how we talk about selecting a member of the National Educational Council. The functioning of the responsibilities of the Structures of the National Education Council has been defined by the law on the basis of the education and education systems in that second chapter on development, security and improvement of quality of education and education. So, is there anything more important than that, gentlemen? So I ask you for a little more attention, I see here that there is no attention to this subject, to talk to each other, not to listen to other MPs, I think the Honorable Chairman would be important.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16040	Mr Pavicevic, you are now misleading the public, I see that very carefully the representatives of the position and no one has spoken at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16041	Well, how is it not, sir?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16042	I beg you don't deceive the public and keep talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16043	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, the National Educational Council is in charge of pre-school, primary and secondary and artistic education and education. I have to remind you of all this because we are discussing today the selection of one of the 43 members of the National Educational Council. Mr. Becic, I don't know if this bell has now been sent back to me or the MPs of the Progressive Party who are talking to each other, and they're not listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16044	Mr. Pavicevic, for some reason, you don't want to finish your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16045	Was it a bell?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16046	The bell was to silence the MPs, but all the MPs at the moment, not at the moment when you made a complaint that someone was disturbing your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16047	Okay, Mr. Becic. Please, it would be very important, I think, if we were all here on what jurisdiction and the National Educational Council are. We have a full list of these responsibilities and a complete list of these suggests to us that a person elected as a member of the National Educational Council must be, gentlemen, one respected figure, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, one model personality, one person who has and enjoys an unimpeached authority who will be able to deal with the authority that will give that person the National Educational Council. In other words, gentlemen, today we choose between two candidates and we should choose this person who undoubtedly enjoys that kind of authority. By listening to Mrs. Jerkov, for example, but also Mr. Ninoslav here, we could hear it, and we could read about it before, about a candidate, Mr. Doroslovakia, I found out here, that this is the gentleman who participated in the miniature campaign campaigns. But, dear gentlemen, on behalf of me, as I understand Mrs. Jerkov, my university, and as a dean, I agree with Mr. Mijatovic, and I am a university teacher, but here or at the mittins, I do not perform on behalf of my university and university, as this gentleman did, but here and elsewhere in politics, I perform as a member of the New Party now respected Mr. Becic and the other gentlemen. The second thing, we heard here, I don't know how it goes over the fact that the State Auditing Institution established an irregularity at that university while the man was a dean and brought those irregularities to 160 pages of text. Can we claim, gentlemen, that it is then a man who enjoys such uncut authority that he will be able to deal with the authority that will give him the National Educational Council? We have an opportunity to choose between the two candidates, I suggest we choose the other candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16048	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic, a replica of the party's mention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16049	The chairman, the dictatorship is a form of rule that because one person, a dictator, can rule an unlimited power. We have just now seen this desire with a respected colleague, Pavicevic. When we're gonna talk, when we're gonna laugh, when we're gonna be in the O.R., when what my esteemed colleague Martinovic says we're gonna breathe, please what is this? Should I not consult the Rules of Procedure before the beginning of the session, but Mr Pavicevic when I can speak, when I can sit, when I can work, when I can communicate with my colleagues? What kind of property is this, what is it in Mr. Pavicevic and the New Party that dictatorically treats the National Assembly, according to their colleagues, so those who are not obedient like me send them a message that they will put a bag on their heads, so when others give a good bill to terrorise them with 600 amendments, "Delete, delete, delete... “ And now we move on, even the physiological needs or the need for communication that are perfectly normal in this congregation are being restricted and they say what we have to do and what we don’t have to do, what we can or can’t do. It is dangerous to promote in the National Assembly and I appreciate your desire and need and all that you have done to limit Mr Pavicevic to some normal civilizational communication and democratic principles on which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is built.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16050	Thank you, Mr. Granny. My only comment may be that Mr Pavicevic is now trying to explain to us, longtime MPs, that he knows the Rules of Procedure better than we do. Here's a replica by Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic to mention the name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16051	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Babic said earlier that I was acting dictatorically here in the National Assembly. Dear gentlemen, I believe there must be order in the National Assembly. I'm sorry Mr. Babic's okay to see the dictatorship. I see one more thing here, Mr. Babic keeps repeating, Mr. Becic, that in my performances I show some hate. Dear gentlemen, I consider this an inappropriate dictionary to be one of the people's MPs in this National Assembly. Why, dear gentlemen? Because when someone who criticises my authority or the advanced majority, for example in this assembly, when you declare that person someone who hates, you declare that person an enemy, a respected gentleman, and when you declare someone an enemy, then you declare a war zone and a war zone. Please, gentlemen, I believe that this is exactly why in late November I received a letter here in the National Assembly full of threats, honored gentlemen, many threats. Immediately after receiving that letter, I went to the PS Starr, where it is my place to report that case and I believe that this letter would not come to citizens who listen to the sessions, for example Mr Babic, do not think that when he says - he hates it, then that man should be referred to as someone threatening a letter, respected gentlemen, and especially I think we should all here respond to the speech of one MP, in this case Mr Babic, who calls terror the submission of amendments to the National Assembly as many as there are, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16052	Mr Pavicevic, I think that your behavior from a few minutes ago spoke to the public how you behave in the National Assembly and how you address the chairman and individual MPs, so that your exposure to a quiet tone cannot clean up what you said before, in the way you acted. Here you go, replica, and that closes the circle of replicas, Mr. Babic. I'd just like to point out that Mr. Mirko Krlić called, but you don't have the basis for the possibility of reporting. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16053	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, the last few sentences said by the previous speaker and when they were seen just like this, they might look honest, but after what I experienced last Friday, but what I experienced from that Friday to this day shows me that Mr. Pavicevic is not honest. Last Friday on a social network following Mr. Zivkovic's status, one of his followers, a friend of mine, sent a clear message that I, Zoran Babic, need to put a bag on my head. That's what I documented with a copy of those warrants. I did not go to the police station, nor will I, because in this country respects freedom, freedom of expression, freedom of writing, freedom of opinion, but I gave it to colleagues Zivkovic and Pavicevic. I did, but I didn't get at least one fence. He doesn't have to go public, he can go in the hallway, he can say - my colleague, I'm sorry about that. No, I didn't get a fence to say – hey, that's bad, that's not how you communicate, that's not how it is, but since it's about a promotional one, because it's about Zoran Babic, yes, he needs a bag on his head. Such a message was sent by both Zivkovic and Pavicevic by not being fenced or condemned because it happened on social networks, under orders they wrote, and therefore I do not believe in the honesty of the words that Mr Pavicevic had just said.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16054	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16055	Please, one more sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16056	Thank you, Mr. Granny. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16057	All right, I'll sign up one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16058	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, you listened very well and carefully to what I was saying earlier and I said that with Mr. Babic's exposure, it was a closed circle of replicas and please let us finish. Dr. Vladimir Orlic has a word for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16059	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I sincerely question the words I would use as the first to describe what I am currently feeling as I listen to this debate. I hesitate between a principled attitude to always be measured and to say how I really feel when I listen to the words spoken today. In particular, I hesitate between inappropriate and embarrassing, and I'll tell you why. It's inappropriate at least that we today don't understand that it doesn't have to, for God's sake, make everything a policy, and the shame that we can put such an attitude at risk with a subject like this. Let's remind one more time, it's possible that someone's said education too many times, and in the meantime he Googled the word itself and what it represents, that in education we have to post-poo, why for God's sake? Because it's the most important thing in the world, to push politics. I'm sure we don't have to, and I'm sure we're making a terrible mistake if we insist on it or make it sound normal. Well, it's not and it's really a shame that, unfortunately, this year, some people here don't understand that such a relationship with things, according to values, actually led to the fact that at some point the citizens of this country don't think very well when the National Assembly is mentioned, that they don't have a very high opinion when it's said politics, that they don't really appreciate someone too much if they're led by a political term. Such an attitude that everything is worth spilling bile and each other's reckoning, verbal overplaying for what? To make someone appear to be someone who's chronically right. It won't take us far, and it won't help us move away from the kind of social condition that we keep trying to translate into something better, something more valuable. Why am I saying this? Because I deeply agree with the words that we could hear today, it's about a respected colleague of Dr. Mijatovic's, that at least this is a topic in which we can be satisfied and complex, because the only dilemma that stands before us is to choose between two good solutions. Why two good solutions? We need to be clear about the personal support of one of the two candidates, with both candidates as regular professors, so people who have reached the highest degree in education. They're both important and educational and scientific workers. They're both people who have gained the support of the profession, their own colleagues, and now we need to make a choice. Whatever we do, we can't make a mistake, at least not so much as make a mistake to regret it tomorrow. This is a nice choice. This is an easy choice, but, no, we're such a nice and easy subject, unfortunately, we have to spoil policy with pure policy for the sake of it. It's amazing that someone who, and I told you what I think about both the other candidate and what I find worthy of both the proposed names, both the proposed personalities, is that we question this because of someone's personal political determination. Unbelievable, I'd even say scandalous. I don't know what kind of words to use. Is it possible that someone's expertise and competence are being questioned because of his political determination? It's really incomprehensible to me. Why incomprehensible? I don't think it's normal for someone to vote for, whose option he thinks is right, to appreciate as a human being and to look through any possible area with which he might have contact through those glasses. I have met many outstanding professors during my education, with many I have had the opportunity to cooperate. Many were known to support certain political options or are close to them or belong to a certain part of the political spectrum, and in enough cases, it was precisely the part of the political spectrum that was not personally close to me, and it could be close to those who today through political accusations and such a kind of personal disqualification are trying to make the subject as it should not be. Do you think it ever occurred to me that this makes me less esteem these people's expertise? Never. It's amazing to me that someone who's supposed to be a representative of the people can think of something like that, and even more amazing that someone who's involved in education and education can come up with something like that as an idea, whether someone who's involved professionally or someone who's supposed to cover it, who's responsible enough and competent enough to deal with it in this place here. It's a shock indeed. So, as I wouldn't allow anyone else or anyone else to disqualify me personally on the basis of the fact that someone here has dared to make a political statement and give someone their support, so I'm going to have to detest and loathe every time I hear something like that in this room. And how much that doesn't really mean to you when you're talking about a member of the National Educational Council, so tell me nicely why this body is important, what it's all about, what qualifications it's supposed to have, and then insert something completely tenth, so not only do I feel the need to react, but I'm going to make a very specific counter example right now. If you think, esteemed colleagues, that someone's political attitude is so important that it should define us how we're going to set ourselves up for someone like a man, here, listen now to the counter-proposal. I will join in the words of Dr. Mijatovic, and I will invite everyone here to vote on their conscience for a candidate who appreciates it more, but in that context which is important for the body for whom it is elected, and not by whether or not he loves this or that political option and certainly not by whether he understands himself in the procurement of goods and services, whether he is engaged, in what kind of human policy he could have been involved in in the institution he works in, whether or not he was involved in proposing some of the internal acts in the institution in which he works, etc., all of what we were able to hear today, and which is unconvinced enough that I really consider him to be the most common facade, for what I started and what I have to end up with, for political disqualification. Education, education, science as areas don't deserve that approach. Once again, let us be clear by what we think is best and let it be the conclusion not of some negative and bitter taste, but of a good message. I agree, we won't make any mistakes no matter how we define ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16060	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Miss Jerkov, you have three minutes left. The magistrate, Alexandra Jerkov, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm just wondering if the MPs have heard that I said that Mr. Doroslovakia's diploma was cancelled? Did they also hear that it was published in the “Official Messenger”? That's not what I said, but the Faculty of Technical Sciences has published a solution for him to be denied his diploma. Did they hear that the DRI reported on 160 pages on abuses at the Faculty of Technical Sciences at the time when he was a dean and found that he was responsible as a dean? All they heard was my request that his recommendation not be that he spoke at the SNS rally, no. On the words of Mr Risticevic that his super qualification is that they are Democrats against him and that is enough reason for SNS to support him, there were salves of applause and that is the attitude towards education. That's why the minister of police defended the doctorate in front of the commission... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16062	I beg you, you have begun to mention the MPs of the people, you have begun to give opportunity for replicas. Don't do this, but finish your presentation on the agenda and explain why you don't want to support a certain candidate. I ask you once again to complete this debate with dignity to the National Assembly. I think there's been enough misbehave to the National Assembly and this high house in previous discussions, so I'm asking you to finish your presentation until the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16063	I can once again appeal to the MPs that the person to whom the diploma has been annulled, who has a report by the DRI on irregularities and illegals in dealing with the financial business of the university and someone for whom it is even a question of whether the law allows him to be a member of the National Education Council, does not choose as a member of the National Educational Council, because if for no other reason, and that by moral parameters should not worry about the education of our children. I see the urgency of Mr. Doroslovsky being defended politically here, and that what the arguments are against him is ignored, prevented and completely ignored. He wasn't attacked politically here. He was attacked based on facts...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16064	Miss Jerkov, you've run out of time to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16065	I don't know how.59 and one-three is? Just to explain it to me. Please, Mr. Becic, one thing. That's what we're gonna deliver...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16066	I think I'm right. We'll check it out one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16067	However you turn, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16068	Thank you. As you said, we here on the agenda have a proposal for a candidate. It is certain that we need to explain why we support or do not support a candidate, but in such an inappropriate way that people who do not have the opportunity to defend themselves in this National Assembly are muddled, I do not think it is worthy of the National Assembly. The word is from the People's Messenger Mirko Krlić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16069	Mr. Chairman, although I think that in an extremely professional way in respecting the MPs, you are leading the Assembly, I think this time the Member of the 107th National Assembly, the MPs, has been violated, on the charge that they do not have a moral barometer and that they have no relation to science and science institutions. I would ask a folk MP if she was talking about this moral barometer or talking about a moral barometer when a few years ago, the truth in the other political party, in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and in the Serbian public defended the then president of the Zrenjanin City Assembly, who, as an academic diploma, showed a degree in the three-month course "Conrad Adenauer Foundation" and thus defended him not only, but also defended him. He remained until the end of his term as president of the Assembly and was recognised seventh degree, and today he is the same gentleman of the province MP and member of the Science, Culture and Education Council in the circuit assembly. I think it was only then that the entire academic public of this country was offended. I don't mind changing political parties. I'm glad that the moral and ethical vision of the MP has moved so positively, but you can't expect everything to be erased and forget everything just because you changed the political bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16070	Thank you. Miss Jerkov, I have at this time other MPs who have applied for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let me just answer Mr. Krlic. I have asked the MPs, especially Miss Jerkov, to try to challenge one candidate in the direction of speech in the National Assembly, and if we need to make arguments that someone is supporting or not supporting, it should not be the way a man who is currently unable to defend himself in the National Assembly. I think it is also appropriate that some MPs, like Dr Mijatovic, defend the reputation of the individual who cannot defend himself at this time in the National Assembly. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16071	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, right to the line, given that I was misread...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16072	Mr. Risticevic, you have the right to a replica, but there is an advantage to the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else hurt the Rules of Procedure? (No) Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16073	It was my turn, after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16074	I've had a few reports in front of you. I have to ask the MPs on what basis they're answering. You know that well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16075	I know. I think he's a injured member of 103. The previous speaker, instead of explaining what the breach of the Rules of Procedure consisted of, was replicating and personally insulting me, I experienced it. To be honest, I was never an MP in the Vojvodina Assembly, except for one session when I resigned immediately. If I were Mr Krlić, I wouldn't be talking about those who change parties while I'm sitting in the Parliament club where I sit, because I think that when it comes to changing political views, mine is the smallest.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16076	You've just done what you've come forward to and why you've challenged someone's desire to try to use a breach of the Rules of Procedure for Replication. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16077	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I am reporting for the replica because I am misread. I admitted that on these academic titles of higher education, I'm not entirely in the subject. I was sorry that my colleague who wrote the Higher Education Act wasn't there to explain it to me. I'm also sorry that certain magistrates are leaving the session. I admitted that it was my impression that since DS has so much against one candidate, that based on that impression I pleaded for the benefit of another candidate. I don't even understand the academics, especially these masters of European science. I didn't know sciences were shared territorially. I'm afraid we don't have a master's degree in French-Winerading science tomorrow. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to get all these professors and academic title holders, college-educated people first to pass an entrance exam for their college and all those diplomas admitted and once put an end to it. I also fell for the eye that any professor, the professor, challenged another professor, and the professor who challenged the vice president of one party, the MP on behalf of that party, enjoyed all the political rights even though he was a professor, and I might suspect that students at his university would feel it would be easier to pass if they entered his party, that such a professor challenged the political right of another professor to attend a rally. I'm really surprised, even though it's from Professor Pavicevic, it's a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-16-0.u16078	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. I'm concluding a search on a list of candidates to elect a member of the National Educational Council. (Milorad Mijatovic, from the post: I answered the word. Mr. Mijatovic, I've concluded the search. (Milorad Mijatovic, from the post: I answered the word in time. You didn't give me your word. You weren't in the system. Please, Mr. Mijatovic, you weren't in the system like I was starting to close the session. Please, and I'm telling you, if you weren't, I'd certainly give you my word if you were. You should have called in time. I'm concluding a search on a list of candidates to elect a member of the National Educational Council. The National Assembly will decide in voting day on the election of a member of the National Educational Council. Continuing tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., about the amendments. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 98 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Mirjana Dragas, Dr Miljana Nikolic, Miletic Mihajlović, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković and Olgica Batic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the points we discussed at the beginning of the session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that, apart from the representative of the motions of the governors of the NBS, I have called for the sittings to be attended by Dr Diana Dragutinović Vice Governor of the NBS, Bojan Terzic, Director General of the Legal Affairs Directorate, Đorđe Angelić, Director-General of the Labour Supervisory Executive, Dragan Stanic, Deputy Director-General of the Payment System Sector, Dejan Devic, Deputy Director-General of the Legal Affairs Directorate, Srdjan Milovanovic and Marina Papadakis, Assistant Director-General for Legal Affairs of the NBS Governor. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavićevic, Mirko Cikiriz, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamović, Riza Halimi, Shaip Kamberi, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Kostic, Mr Dejan Čapo, Goran Ćirić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Marko Djurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Karavidić, Dr. Muarem Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branko Boštnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. You have received the Report of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the opinion of the NBS on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
