ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 93 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 143 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vesna Martinović, Krstimir Pantic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Vladata Kostic, Dijana Vukomanovic, Branko Ružić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Aleksandar Senić and Aleksandar Čotriæ. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time from the deadline of Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and exceptional for Friday, so past the date set out in Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. As a result of the need for the National Assembly to review the draft agenda law set out in the Government's request to hold an emergency session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, I have called on the Minister of Justice to attend the session and Miroslav Panic, adviser to the Director of the Security and Information Agency. Before we move to work, I would like to inform you that the conditions have been met, and I propose that we establish the mandate of the MP in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary seat in order to enable his participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been given a report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly to comply with Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs of the peoples finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Dusan Jankovic, elected from the Electoral List ALEXANDAR VUČIĆ – FUTURE IN WHICH WE BELIEVE (Serbian Progressive Party, Social Democratic Party of Serbia, New Serbia, Serbian Renewal Movement, Socialist Movement). On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and of the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of the people of MP Dusan Jankovic. Congratulations to the People's MP. Dear People's MP, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly approach the swearing of an oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to approach the signing of the text of the oath. Let me wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you were sent a request to hold the Fourth Extraordinary Session in 2014, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2014, the following Dn e v n ir e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Security and Information Agency Act. We're going to work on the agenda. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Security Control. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Security and Information Agency Act. Does the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, the minister of justice, want a word? The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3386	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the debate in principle, I will make a few preliminary remarks on the draft law amending and supplementing the Security and Information Agency Act, which is today in front of you on the agenda. The most important reason for the adoption of such a law certainly lies in the fact that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, by its decision by 26 December 2013, established that the provisions of Articles 13,14 and 15. The security and information agency's laws are not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. By posting that decision, it was postponed by six months from the date of its adoption. It is a matter of very important legal provisions, of special measures which deviate from the constitutional principle of non-violence to letters and other means of disclosure, as well as the circle of persons and conditions under which such measures can be determined. These amendments should fully ensure constitutional law guaranteeing the non-violence of the confidentiality of letters and other means of communication, while prescribing the limitations of this right, if necessary in order to protect the security of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the provision of Article 41(2). The Constitution. In that sense, Article 1. Proposals to the law as opposed to the existing solution referred to in Article 13. The Security and Information Agency Act, a specific type of specific measure which may be deviated from the constitutional principle of non-violence to letters and other means of communication, and for the purpose of carrying out security tasks of the Republic of Serbia, for which the BIA is responsible. The bill sets out four specific measures: first – covert surveillance and recording of communication regardless of the form and technical means through which electronic or other address is carried out; two – covert surveillance and recording of communications in public places and places where access is restricted or in rooms; three – statistical and electronic surveillance of information systems in order to obtain information on the communication or location of use of mobile terminal equipment; under four – computer search of already processed personal and other data and their comparison with data collected using other measures. It should be noted that it is provided that, with two specific measures, relating to covert surveillance and recording of communication, covert surveillance and recording of places, premises and objects, including automatic data processing devices and equipment on which they are stored or can be stored by electronic records. Article 2 The bill is closer to a specific circle of persons according to which special measures can be determined, filling the gap from the applicable law. Namely, it is a person, group or organisation who is suspected of taking or preparing actions aimed at the security of the Republic of Serbia, and the circumstances of the case suggest that otherwise these actions could not be detected, prevented or proved or would cause disproportionate difficulties or serious dangers. It should also be noted that the application of specific measures is regulated in accordance with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity, and that they can only be applied to the extent of human rights restriction, which is necessary to protect the security of democratic society. Article 3 The draft law provides for proposals to determine the specific measure submitted by the Director of the Agency to the competent court. Unlike the current legal solution, it is envisaged that the agency director's proposal should be decided by the President of the High Court in Belgrade or by the judge designated by him among the judges of the special department of the court responsible for handling organised crime, corruption and other serious crimes. The proposed solution is in line with the powers of the High Court in Belgrade, which has been specifically laid down by law to judge crimes against the security of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the license for judges who specialize in the handling of the cases. In addition, this solution is correct from two other points of view. First, because the concentration of jurisdiction has been retained, which means that the proposal is decided in one court for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand, such a solution is in line with the principle of double-degree in a decision that did not exist, or does not exist in the applicable law, since under that law only the Supreme Cassation Court decides on the proposal of the Director of the Agency. Provision of Article 3. The draft law should be linked to the provisions of Article 4 of this Act which, among other things, propose the addition of a new Article 15a in the text of the Security Information Agency Act. Pursuant to Article 15a, the possibility of appeal by the Director of the Agency is given unless his proposal for a specific measure is adopted by the Court of First Instance. In line with the proposed solution, in the first instance, the Agency's proposal by the President of the Great Court in Belgrade, namely the judge of the special decision-making court in the second instance, is more than three judges of the Belgrade Special Court of Appeal who are handling organised crime, corruption and other serious crimes, including criminal acts of terrorism and certain crimes against the security of the Republic of Serbia. Given that special measures restrict human rights, the bill provides for a more frequent review of the eligibility of these measures, the determination of those measures. Namely, the bill retains an existing solution that the application of these measures may take up to 12 months, but unlike the existing legal framework, which prescribes the possibility of extending the measure after six months for another six months, the bill foresees that the justification for the application of the specific measures is reviewed every three months. I note that this is a maximum duration of special measures, with these measures always being abolished without delay unless there are reasons for their application anymore. The paper also presents the provision of Article 15b of the Bill, whose introduction is proposed, and concerns the possibility of the application of specific measures in case the persons against whom the measures are carried out use any other means of communication which is not contained in the court's decision. If a member of the Agency finds out that other means of communication are being used, he shall immediately inform the Director of the Agency which may order the extension of specific measures and those means of communication. However, the Director of the Agency shall immediately, and no later than 48 hours, submit a proposal to the competent court for subsequent approval of the extension of the specific measures, and the Court shall decide on that proposal within 48 hours. If the judge rejects the proposal to extend the measures, the collected material shall necessarily be destroyed in the presence of the judge. A similar solution is contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The paper also includes the obligation to keep a special register on the application of specific measures to be introduced in accordance with the Law governing the confidentiality of data. In view of the delayed fact of the Constitutional Court's decision, it is necessary for the law to enter into force on the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", because otherwise there could be adverse consequences for the work of the BIA, which would be left without significant authority by the law. This would also call into question the Agency's ability to effectively protect the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia, which could have adverse consequences for the security of citizens and the achievement and protection of their freedoms and rights. This is the essence of the most significant newspapers of this bill. Finally, allow me to express my first gratitude for your attention, but also hope that after the debate in the principles and particulars of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Security and Information Agency Act will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3387	I thank Minister Selakovic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Do representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups want a word? Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3388	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, representative in front of the BIA, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues, today we have before us a draft law amending and supplementing the BIA Act which essentially only represents the correction of those non-constitutional provisions of the basic text of the law, and whose unconstitution is determined by the Constitutional Court's decision of 26 December and the non-constitution is examined in the sense of the already mentioned Articles 13, 14 and 15. Since the Constitutional Court's decision, as explained by the Bill's proposal, was made on December 26th and its publication was due to take place six months for reasons of general knowledge, and these common known reasons are just holding elections. I am sorry that this period of six months has not been respected, and the Constitutional Court's decision has indeed been announced within a period of time, and that deadline expired yesterday, since yesterday was the 26th and also the last day for its publication. The amendments and additions to the bill that we have before us today, I think it's necessary. I think that we can absolutely all agree on this, just as we have the same opinions, such as these amendments and additions, and initiated by the Constitutional Court, and after that, the Guardian of Citizens who gave an opinion on the draft bill of this kind, amending and supplementing the Security and Information Agency Act. I think that this necessity and need could go one step further, that I am quite certain in front of the DHSS that some new amendments and additions to the Security and Information Agency Act will be found in some future period, since there is a need for such a thing, it makes sense. The reality is that existing provisions are just going in the direction of this and they are talking about that time has long been denied and that they simply have to be harmonised, in accordance with the modern needs of our country as well as our society. Certainly one shift has been made to define specific measures by changing, but at the same time to specify the content of specific measures, which is certainly a far more significant fact when we talk about this. It certainly enables better application of the law, and in practice, what is even better, this allows for its predictability just when we talk about applying in practice. This is an excellent step, unlike the basic text of the law, where exactly the deviations from the principle of inviolability and letters and other means of generalization were regulated in a rather confusing way, by completely incomprehensible provisions, so, for example, in the then Article 14, which is changed to God and has been declared unconstitutional, it was envisaged that the derogation from the principle of non-violability of letters and other means of communication, on the proposal of the Director of the Agency, was approved by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, or the Judge. This is a particularly confusing provision, i.e. part of the provision - of the court authorised to decide, under these proposals, in the case of the absence of the President of the Court, in the following text - by the authorised judge. Far longer deadlines were foreseen from now on. The powers of the Director of the Agency, from the hills-slow, in relation to its handling in cases of urgency, etc. have been completely rejected. I will try to go in some order, as they change and complement the three members that the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional. In Article 1, specific measures are taxed, there are four, which are currently deviating from the principle already mentioned, by the Constitution of the guaranteed principle of secrecy of letters and other means of disclosure, by providing that the last position of this Article 1 is to determine, with these first two specified specific measures, the covert surveillance, recording of the place, premises, objects, including automatic data processing devices and equipment to which the electronic records are kept or can be kept. It is a good thing that such a measure is provided for as a follow-up measure and that the decision of the court is required for this same measure. Of course, on this point, I must agree with what in my opinion, when it came to the draft of the bill, Mr Saša Jankovic pointed out, and this is that although I am speaking with one special measure of this kind, I am talking about a special measure from the last position of this member, it does not enter into the secrecy of communication in its full scope, however, it must be kept in mind that such special measures affect the right of citizens to privacy and the right to live at all. This is guaranteed by Article 8. The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and since such a European Convention is ratified, it is an integral part of our positive legal system. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in its Article 41st position 2, has just mentioned that member, allows for a derogation from the confidentiality of the generality only for the conduct of criminal proceedings and for the protection of the security of the Republic of Serbia, which is Article 2. Proposal for amendments and additions to this law and mentioned above. That's commendable, and I have to point that out. This amended the solution envisioned by the draft of this law, which allows specific measures to determine when there are grounds for suspicion of taking or preparing actions directed against the constitutional arrangement and security of the Republic of Serbia. If such a solution had remained and been copied precisely in this bill, and from its draft law, then there would have been that part - constitutional arrangement, and then someone could again raise the question of the assessment of the constitutionality of such a provision. I am sure that in that case, the Constitutional Court would take the position it has taken in relation to provisions 13, 14 and 15 and declare such a provision unconstitutional. It is good that this is precisely the kind of article that provides for the basis of suspicion as a material condition, and on the other hand, the protection facility takes the safety of the Republic of Serbia, and not the overall formulation – the constitutional arrangement and security of the Republic of Serbia, and thus the opinion given by the Citizens' Protector in its decadent paragraphs. What should also be noted, this article takes into account and respects the principles of subsidiarity, but also the principle of proportionality, as regards the application of these specific measures to the taxation of Article 1. First of all, it is seen in the part of the legislative formulation in Articles 2 and 2 of its position, in the scope of the need to satisfy the purpose of the restriction in a democratic society. Of course, with regard to this article, I had certain amendments that I think one such member can be specified. Let's say that instead of the point, we put the decimal point here and that it should be stated - and according to the Constitution and the ratified international conventions, since some of them were ratified. Furthermore, rather than deciding on the application of these specific measures, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, as provided for in the basic text of the law, or the judge appointed by him, as it was completely unambiguously stated - the authorised judge who changed him in the event of his absence, and how the entire article of the 14th basic text of the law, which was read by the judge of that court, who was determined to decide on these proposals in the case of the absence of the President of that court. Now such a solution is far more correct, and such a decision is now made by the President of the Great Court in Belgrade, which is, what is said to be, a judge appointed by him among the judges deployed in the special section of the court for which the law provides for him to act in cases of criminal offences, organised crime, corruption, particularly serious crimes. Of course, there is a need to subdue - never and in any way should be distracted from the mind that the jurisdiction of the Special Court in Belgrade extends to the entire territory of our country. What's further good about these changes and additions is that of Article 4. The bill introduces two stages in the court's decision to apply special measures. This is certainly a good solution, but it also seems to me to me that it may be a devastating fact that this two-stage approach, which is foreseen by such changes and additions, is not enabled and is not given to those persons whose rights, for example, are limited by the decision of the first degree court. I don't think it was a matter of taking care of it or simply missing something like that, and it shouldn't have been overlooked. And also, when a member of this bill says that the decision to appeal makes a bigger one, the bigger one you always have to define, you have to define it, you have to say that it's extrajudicially larger, because it's better for precision. In that sense, I also submitted the amendment. It is also better because of the nomotechnics, in fact from the point of view of the nomotechnics, because this law should not only be clear to the proposing, nor should it be clear only to us, but should be clear to anyone who wants to read it, or to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the possibility provided for in Article 4 of the same Act on Amendments and Supplements of the Security-Informative Agency, more precisely for the sake of a lighter review, it is stated in Article 15b, in its first position, and as regards, of course, the extension of the Special Measures by the Director of the Agency's decision, the solution is certainly more comprehensive, the solution is more efficient and, if you will, it may be more rational, but the solution must have its own balance, and that balance is restrictive. Such measures must be fully restrictively applied. Therefore, it would have to be strengthened, in fact, by this mechanism of controlling the implementation of the enlargement of specific measures. A proposal for subsequent approval of the extension of the specific measure shall be submitted by the Director of the Agency within 48 hours. My first question is, and what if the Director of the Agency, for example, is justifiably absent, is on a business trip, has gone to America or is God sick, or has a death case, who's going to change him? This is not foreseen by the legal provision, and I think it should be foreseen and I think one more attitude could be inserted. I guess he'd be changed by an agent on duty, or he'd be changed by his face, in any case, by someone he'd be authorized to do that. I think that this is exactly the kind of attitude that should have been decidently, legally and legally determined. To that end, I have submitted an amendment, technically, to be precise. As far as the deadlines are concerned, I believe that this solution is entirely justified, with the paradox that two different solutions can be defended completely, as stated by this bill, but also the solution that these deadlines are too large. I'll explain why I personally consider such deadlines too long. With regard to all these deadlines left, on the one hand, we have 48 hours available to the Director of the Agency to submit a proposal, I am talking about this extension, to submit a proposal for subsequent approval of the extension of the application of the specific measures, and then, on the other hand, we have 48 hours as far as the court is concerned to decide on such a once submitted proposal by the Director. If we add 48 hours mathematically, belonging to the Director of the Agency and to the Court, how much time is available for him to decide on this proposal by the Director of the Agency for the Post-Awards Approval of the Extension of the Measures, then we get 96 hours of time to submit and make a decision on the proposal. My question is, why are you doing deadlines like this? For example, in 96 hours, I, you or anyone can fly out of Australia, do something or do a lot of things, see and meet someone, or see and meet many, go back to Australia and not waste time of 96 hours. I just don't know why it's 48 hours and for the director. I think that this should go to automation immediately, and I shall state for the reason that one error was made in the explanation of this proposal and when you talk about the explanation of basic legal institutes and individual solutions, and on the fifth, paragraph two, sentence two, fifth row, you say – in that case, the Director of the Agency is obliged to immediately submit a proposal to extend the application of a specific measure decided by the Court of Justice. Or your argument is not in line with the provision of the text of the law, and I believe that what is stated in the explanation that the Director immediately, not within 48 hours, is certainly a more comprehensive and far more acceptable solution. When you speak in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing the confidentiality of data, I'm sure you're referring to the Law on the secrecy of information that entered into legal force on 1 January 2010, in the set of packages, it seems to me, correct me if I'm wrong, then 54 laws, which, of course, would have a lot to say and not quite so commendable, which was brought in to that effect, rather than to live in practice, because he can't live in practice, since his life in practice lacks necessary sublegal acts that have not yet been passed. It should certainly be noted here, that we have ratified the Agreement on the Exchange of Information both with the EU and NATO. My question is the same, which I have a clue about, when you speak in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing the confidentiality of information, do you always think about the confidentiality of information that came into force on 1 January 2010? In any case, respecting, above all, the Constitutional Court's decision and this proposal that we are discussing today, the DHSS will support such a bill in the voting day. I will point out here the fact that I have already mentioned several times in my reasoning is that I have submitted several amendments to which, I think, and technical precision is being made, and the essence does not change, and the sum of technical rules represent far, in my opinion at least personally, more comprehensive solutions, and that is actually one improved technical correction, for the work of greater precision and understanding, absolutely to all citizens of Serbia, and I hope that they will not just be rejected. In any case, the proposed solution, the collection of data is introduced into the track, and that is what must be pointed out as a commendable, one fully controlled process. Of course, such a bill allows for even greater transparency. In fact, such a bill only allows transparency, because the basic text of the law could not have done such a thing. This transparency regarding the very way of data collection is certainly commendable. Of course, there's something else I could say about all this, since I'm also applicants of the amendment, in some more detailed analysis of all of these members we're discussing today, I'm still going to talk about when I've been set up and when we talk about it in detail. As I have already mentioned, the SPO and DHSS parliamentary groups will certainly support such a proposal to amend and supplement the BIA Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3389	I thank Miss Batic. The word has been given by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3390	Dear Representative, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only explain with a few sentences on behalf of the JS parliamentary group why in the voting day we will support the amendment and addition of the BIA Act. The first and basic reason is that as this law is known in the basic text was adopted in 2002, and in 2011 amendments and additions to this law were made. After that, by certain applicants, an initiative for the assessment and constitutionality and legality of certain provisions of this law has been launched before the Constitutional Court. As we all know, the Constitutional Court decided at the end of last year with a delayed fact of six months that certain members of this law are not in agreement with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, we JS MPs, as well as all other MPs in this National Assembly, and also the Government of the Republic of Serbia, certainly did not have the possibility of a different, first government, and now we, rather, to simply consider the proposal for this law on amendments and additions, respecting all the objections that the Constitutional Court has made in its decision. Given that, the government has come forward with a proposal to amend and supplement the BIA Act and they are before us today. What is very important for the JS parliamentary club is that all these measures proposed in the amendments to this law provide that they cannot last indefinitely but may take a certain period of time for up to a year. It is very important that, every three months, the draft law assesses these proposed measures by the competent authorities in this country. It is also important that one newspaper was introduced, which is two-stage in the decision-making process, on whether the measures taken under the agency's proposal by the competent president of the Supreme Court in Belgrade or by a special judge appointed by him from a circle of judges working in a special department, that they can go to the Supreme Court of Cassation. This is very important in contrast to the existing legal provisions, since it is possible for some other and senior assessment bodies to assess whether some proposed measures by the Director and possibly adopted by the President of the Court or Judges in accordance with the existing regulations governing this area or in accordance with the Constitution. If we are a country that wants to join the EU, a country that has to monitor the current European legislation, we are obliged to accept and accept the opinion of the Constitutional Court and to put its opinion with certain objections and suggestions in the proposal for amendments and addition of the BIA Act. It's done this time. I would not, in particular, comment on every measure provided for by this law right now, enough is Mr. Minister in his opening statement in a core and reasonable way to explain it to all of us acceptablely. On us MPs of all, and especially for us from JS, it is clear enough that in the day of voting we give our support to the amendment and addition of the BIA Act. For this reason, and for the reasons that I have stated that in the first place it is most important that we have to respect, and to learn to respect in this country all decisions of the Constitutional Court, whether we like them or not, for that reason we will in the day to vote as the Parliamentary Club of Unity Serbia support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3391	Thank you, Mr. Petrovic. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3392	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for today's law, probably not in the order of these reform laws announced two months ago by the Prime Minister, when the government was elected, these are the changes that are necessary, due to the Constitutional Court's decision, made six months ago. What we don't understand is why we're waiting literally for the last day to pass this law, since I suppose the changes were written a long time ago, and they could have been written anyway. It is a law that has five members, which amends three existing members of the law, and what is bad, which we have put the state in a position that if this Parliament does not adopt the law in the next two days, practically by publishing the Constitutional Court Decision, it would cease to apply Articles 13, 14 and 15 of the applicable Law and the Security Information Agency could not apply secret measures against anyone legally in this country. I think it's one bad practice and that for the two months that the government's mandate has been enough time for this bill to be delivered to the Assembly and to be considered not in such a timed teat. The solutions of this law are, to say the good, they go one step forward in relation to the solutions of the previous law and respect to the highest extent the Constitutional Court's decision, i.e. the objections that the Constitutional Court had when it made a decision on the unconstitutional nature of paragraphs 13, 14 and 15, and I think it will contribute to better protecting the human rights of all citizens, which are under secret measures. What I don't see is that this law will pass, it's transparency in the work of a Security Information Agency and I don't think these points of the law are about transparency and I think that there should be any further amendments to the law in other members talking about the control of the work of a Security Information Agency as well as other agencies. The problem with the transparency of the work of the Security Information Agency has one longer time. In 2006, for the first time, an initiative by young people to protect human rights submitted a request by the BIA to deliver the number of total persons found under covert measures during the previous year 2005. The BIA rejected that request, used all possible legal methods in our legal system not to submit that request. Finally, the problem came before the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and it was in June this year when it decided that the BIA was obliged to deliver that information. Unfortunately, at the request of the same organisation from June this year to deliver the number to them, it practically becomes public, the Security Information Agency, as far as I know, has not responded positively. I failed to monitor that this was happening literally these days, perhaps I was wrong, there is Mr Panic from the BIA, so he may have information, since the Commissioner for Protection of Information has also asked the BIA to also call on the Court of Human Rights' decision in Strasbourg to deliver the decision, he called on the BIA to act in accordance with the request. I have no information that it was done and it's bad if it did, and then it wouldn't be bad to continue with the practice that the Court of Human Rights decisions in Strasbourg are not respected. What always follows the work of the BIA, other agencies and security services is this secrecy and the possibility to disrupt the secrecy of their work and is often the subject of various media speculations. So in the fall of 2012, we had a big affair when the President of the Republic said that our country's services were listening. It was a matter of days in the media, it was a topic and in the statements of the highest state officials, it was promised to clarify whether or not the listening was, what was going on, unfortunately, we never got an answer to that. We don't know whether it was listening or not, if it was, whether it was done by law or not, if it was done by law, how did the President of the Republic find himself under secret measures and what the consequences of all that was happening? One good thing about this control over the work of the Security Service and BIA is the fact that two years ago, by forming a call to the Assembly in 2012, a special Committee of the Security Control Assembly was formed and that is one step towards greater control and to say greater transparency. However, I think there is room and to move into the next steps to make this control better and to take it down, maybe to break down that one thought in Serbia that I see and the prime minister talked about yesterday, which is that everyone thinks is important and that everyone is listening to the phone in the state of Serbia. Also, we have these days of writing and in the papers that footage of some of the meetings of state officials and people working in the judiciary are responsible functions with people who are suspected of being involved in the work of criminal groups, that they met and that the BIA had these videos, and that these videos in a magical way have disappeared and I think it is very important that all these things are revealed, so that there is no doubt in the way and legality of the work of BIA, VBA and others that have this possibility of covert surveillance. I think one problem that we have is that unfortunately there is not enough transparency in the work of the state authorities dealing with secret measures, is the fact that there are several agencies involved in this. So, BIA, VBA, police. They all have techniques, technical opportunities to apply secret measures, and I think it's one bad solution, and maybe in the future you should think about one model that exists in some countries, which is that all techniques are put in one place, to form one special solution, whether an agency or administration, which then anyone who has a need in accordance with the law, to carry out secret measures, would address the court's decision and then the secret measures would be applied. So when I don't know, here's the example, when the president says he's been tapped, it's first to determine which of the state authorities that have that possibility and technical possibilities, which the state authority did, if at all, and I'm saying we still don't have an answer for it. It is good that now and so-called documents will need the court's decision, although I know that in the work, above all, police in the detection of some easier crimes were once helpful, means extracting documents or identifying the location of certain mobile numbers, i.e. subscribers. However, if the correct information that I read yesterday seems to me, that the control initiated by the Information Protection Trustee was established by only one operator that in the last year, 270,000 times was asked for a practical listing. I think that these are very large numbers and the question is whether the application of these measures is proportionate to the effects it gives in the fight against crime and I think that now it will be very difficult to work, to say some easier crimes, that it is still good that the decision of the court will be needed to take these so-called documents. A concrete solution to the law, there are certain things that we from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia think should change. We have given certain amendments, so we will have our final position on whether we will vote in favour of this law, see after the debate has ended in details and decisions of the Government whether to accept or not our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3393	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word has been authorised by the president of the parliamentary group, MP Borislav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3394	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, the work of the Security Service in general, and of course BIA, is such that, as always in all countries, it is in principle in conflict with the possibility of violating citizens' rights, i.e. they are always opposed to their work of secrecy and transparency. Therefore, the work of security services everywhere, including us, is one of the most prominent activities within a single country's overall security system. I think that these changes have achieved several things in this direction, which is that, in the application of specific security measures, i.e. in a specific case BIA, are guaranteed, more than ever, to ensure and safeguard the rights of citizens, on the one hand. On the other hand, I think these changes provide a safer approach to the application of these special measures by the service. So, I appreciate that more security has been given to people in the service in the application of these measures. Thirdly, I think it's been introduced far more than ever, so to speak, the role of probationary control by the judicial authorities. Thirdly, greater efficiency has been achieved in the effect of applying these measures, including by shortening time from the initiative to apply the measures to their application. As we know, there were times 76 hours, etc., now it's 48. However, I think that more texts of these amendments should be texted, the colleague Batic said about it, in the sense that some of these proposed provisions are somewhat textally unmistakable, so I should explain them. Third, I think there's still room for these leftover deadlines. If it takes the Director of BIA 48 hours when an inspector, a worker, indicates the need and knowledge that new rooms should be included, new communication means for the application of special measures, if left to him for 48 hours, that is understandable to me, because they need to obtain and specify all the facts they need to deliver to the court. But that's why I think maybe I'm wrong, I'm not a lawyer, I'm not from that branch, but I think it's 48 hours in court to make a decision, or an order to apply a special measure. I would like to say a few more things, which when things like this come up like these changes and additions, which encourages thinking and the need to expand a little bit, when it comes to security and the security system, I think that these things and a lot of other things that we talked about, remember when we discussed the Law on VOA and VBA, etc., I think it is necessary as soon as possible, and I suggest, if I can allow myself, simply ask as an MP, and also on behalf of my MP group, that as soon as possible the security strategy is completed for the reasons that we have new circumstances. By the way, it looks like it's a little ephemeral for this subject, but it's not. The floods have shown how much we need and on this plan the self-protection system. I think a security strategy needs to be built into a far stronger self-protection system when it comes to the most rooted things of the country's security system, that's one thing. Secondly, the strategy needs to be provided, which I do now not think is the case, that a citizen should not be a security object like that now mainly, but rather put himself in the position of a security entity to a far greater extent than it is now visible in the strategy, and that would obliterate then the need for such a setting up of an essential entity and through laws and would lead to some amendments to the laws as well as those which we are talking about here today and many others. The third thing that should be revised by the security strategy is the function and role of the media as a whole as part of the security system today. You can't talk about the media as part of the security system according to the strategy as it speaks, and at the same time you have media that have their sources through which we read every day, they get data on a concrete file, data from a file, and no one is directly and specifically required from the rules of the past, although they should do so by general regulations, that they have to investigate where confidentiality is violated. She's obviously been broken and no one's been responding to that kind of thing for years. Of course, I don't blame the media because, they're looking for exclusivity, they're looking for sensationalism, especially in private media, the owners are pushing editors, editors are pushing journalists into it, and it's kind of logical, but where are we state, as a system? I think it should also be upgraded from this two-year experience of the Committee on Service Control in that segment to security, mode, methodology, control content by the Assembly through the Committee on Security Services and in the Security System as such. Without wanting to hurt anyone, it seems to me that in this situation right now we have security control, or security services on the outside. I think for good control, you need to get into the system from the inside, if I'm well understood. Inside, I know the essence of things, and then it wouldn't happen to us, mentioned here, so I'm going to take that example, to speak, as you know, there's been a great deal of halabuca about it, that the president of the state, the Prime Minister, and so on. This is why it is asked as a crown question – who did it? The crown question is not who did it, the crown question is, what does the counterintelligence service do to us, or counterintelligence protection? The crown question is – how could he have come and penetrated a security officer? That's the essential question. So, we need to correct these things on this plan when I'm talking about the need to revise the security strategy. One more thing is very important. When it comes to security control, I'm sorry, but my impression is that we forgot about security control, when it comes to congregation control, and the Security Service Coordination Bureau as an integral segment of the complex. I'll just say one situation. We have a situation these days with the generals of the police, etc. It's been mentioned everywhere whether they should have done these or them sooner, but what was that Security Service Co-ordination Bureau doing? He had to see it and follow, or control of the congregation, the committee had to see it and warn if the Security Service Co-ordination Bureau had not seen it. That's why I think there's room for us to enter the security system as a security system and go studioically, systematically and systematically, and what we're doing today is the beginning of the issue of regulations in the area of country security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3395	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. The word has been authorised by a representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, MP Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3396	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of BIA, first of all, I would like to say that today we are really working in teats without need, given that we had a court decision in December of last year and that there was a time opportunity to do not only a change and complementing what the Constitutional Court had ordered, but to do a whole new law and finally put an end to a law that was passed in 2002, which was, at that point, modern, modern, which at that moment, for the first time in Serbia's history, pulled the BIA out of the interior ministry system, that the Agency had become a government, and not as part of the police, or State Security Resor. The Constitutional Court, by analysing the law, as I understand it as early as 2002, has in the meantime changed countries and the Constitution has changed in Serbia, has come to the conclusion that one word is essential, but one word in Article 13 should change because it should practically define and specify what are the specific measures that the BIA can apply to Serbian citizens. In that word that was there, it was said that these were general things, i.e. they were not finally and clearly defined. Today, there should have been either a change and an addition to that member alone, the adaptation of Articles 14 and 15, or that we finally have a new BIA law, which would allow BIA to function in a modern and modern way, i.e. work. To discuss these changes and additions, we must say that what has become a government and what is present in the Serbian Parliament is a series of fundamental changes in the law. It is not only in that member who was a member of the 13th that he would be a member of the 1st, but also in the other members. I will briefly try to analyze, without wanting to politicise these things in any way, because I think these things are essential to the citizens of Serbia. They penetrate the domain of human rights, the domain of classified personal data, etc. In fact, this Article 13, which has been challenged by the Constitutional Court, is very effectively changed in the proposal of a member given by the government, i.e. I assume the group in the BIA, and is proposed by the official government. I think there's only one thing to praise. Even though the Constitution finds that the apartment is invulnerable, I think it should stand as in the CAP, that the application of the measures can be where anything can, or where it cannot, be put – except in the apartment. That thing goes without saying, but if it's not in the law, the question is, what happens if someone breaks the Constitution? As we see, when the Constitution is broken, we come to the Assembly, we vote some new law, and if an operative or member of the service violates the Constitution, I don't know what prison sanctions or legal formal sanctions would be against him, regardless of what it is clearly defined. We also need to know that the former law that is being amended today or will still be in force with the changes, the measures proposed by the director of the BIA, approved, or agreed, by the new proposal gives the order of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Why am I stressing that? Because according to your new proposal, that's what the President of the High Court does, or the judge of the Special Court. To express myself in public, it is a judge of the Special Court, a court that judges organised crime or organised criminal groups, even terrorism. However, the threat to the security of the Republic of Serbia does not have to be organised. It may also be an individual act of a man who threatens the security or constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. I don't see why he's moving from the Supreme Cassation Court position to the High Court, so the President of the High Court has the opportunity to transfer that authority to the judge of a special department. There is also one thing that, in my opinion, is completely illogical, which is that when there are grounds and when the BIA seeks to apply special measures and the court refuses, there is the possibility that the BIA, or BIA director, should appeal to the Court of Appeal. Practically, BIA becomes a party in the process, in which there should not be a bit of a dilemma whether what BIA is required to do or not at that time. I think the way BIA currently has the possibility of working is not good, not because of BIA, but because of the law. I think the way measures are approved for persons, i.e. according to their registered telecommunications, makes it impossible for the BIA to work quality. I think it would be logical that when one person is observed in any way to apply the measures against him and that all the communications he has can automatically be placed on certain measures and to facilitate the operation and not to seek further consent to the extension of the measures. Here in the bill there is one thing that is absolutely absurd to me, which is that if a person who is under certain measures, measures that are highlighted in the proposal of point 1, changes in the means of communication, i.e. using another means of communication, when I say a means of communication, that is if he uses another phone, another Internet account or even another room in which he meets a person who is also from a criminal or some other security-hazard environment, in that situation, the Director of BIA has the right to issue an order or instruction for the use of the measure and according to that new means, and then leaves him for 48 hours, practically two days, to refer that order to the court that the court should decide whether that order is in accordance with the assessment of the court, whether that measure can be used or not. First of all, I think it's completely illogical for BIA's director to keep that decision to himself for two days, and it's already being applied. On the other hand, it is disputed, in my opinion, that it takes the court two days to make such a decision. So, I'm taking you back to the beginning. I'm much more liberal in that attitude and I think that those people who are on track and should be, I say, conditionally, on general terms, on all communication means. In this way, we come into a situation where really one absurdity is being created in which the director of BIA practically has the exclusive to hold someone to some extent for two days without need, because I don't think he even needs that much power. He's the first administrator of the Agency to have other powers. Also, there is a problem, it is found in this article proposal, which is very important for all citizens of Serbia, especially for people who are in position, because we have had this situation in the past, and that is that if a particular person against whom special measures apply, I draw attention to the importance of this and the MPs, change his means of communication and communicate with a person who is not from a crime scene. So you get the opportunity to listen for four days, then the court finds that there was no legal basis for using that measure. It can also be a follow-up measure, a listening measure, a measure of each other's surveillance. Then that material isn't used and it's destroyed. In parallel with the legislation of other countries in the world, there is a rule that people who have come into contact with people who are under measures and who are found not to be accomplices to any criminal act, or in anything that threatens the security of the Republic of Serbia or any republic, are informed that they have been in such a situation. Practically, when the court finds that there was no basis, the whole case is being packed, the whole case goes to annihilation defined by your proposal is not disputed. I have submitted the amendment, and I ask that this citizen, who can be you tomorrow or some deputy prime minister, as was, be informed that he was in a position to communicate with a person who's on the other side of the law, whether it's safe or criminal, doesn't matter and that it can't finally happen in Serbia to say -- I didn't know who he is, I was just hanging out with him, etc. A man can hang out with whoever he wants, but then I think it's a duty for the service to protect him counterintelligence, like all citizens in Serbia, to say -- you had a situation of communication with someone who has no good intentions. That goes for, let's say, a simple world. Someone's gonna call to rent an apartment. The one who betrays will talk, it will last, we will visit the apartment, they will see, they will be under surveillance all the time, it is concluded that there were no elements for the crime, but on the other hand, which is why this man would suffer all of this and why wouldn't he come up with information that he had and warned in another time period so that something like this might happen again? I think that the deadline that's been given here for 48 hours is completely unadjusted, unnecessary. As far as I know, BIA's retirement solutions are being issued in a few hours. Mr. Panic knows that well. A man is called Friday afternoon at 5 p.m., at 6 p.m. he signs a retirement solution and is already retired from Monday. Is it possible that you have to wait this important thing 48 hours? He doesn't have to. At the same time as he gives the order to include special measures, the application can be sent to court, the time limit is shortened. If these measures are established, the court will make a decision. If not established, then the possibility of "abuse" will be prevented. I'm not someone who thinks the service is being abused, but unfortunately, the legacy we have in the past has shown that that's what individuals have been doing. To be honest, we need to be aware that the law passed in 2002 is practically and then considered transitional. I told you what the point was, what the reform indicators were then, which is why the BIA was pulled out of the MUP, which is usually not under the same hat around the world. It's been 12 years. You've been in office for two years. We were supposed to decide today about a whole new BIA law, and not just about the BIA, but specifically about the BIA, I have a feeling of great bitterness that we're doing something quick. I was even suggested that if I didn't have to, I couldn't stand the amendment, so we wouldn't work on Sunday, it doesn't matter who, but friendly. We'll work on Sunday, if we have to Monday. I think this thing that gets into the privacy of all of us, the citizens of Serbia, is unrelated to who's in what positions, the thing that needs to be treated seriously. On the other hand, I think that this new law should create some mechanisms for much better control, essential control, which will prevent even the desire to abuse the law, someone can achieve it. What does that mean? There are countries that have their offices, bureaus, telecommunications agencies. These are agencies that employ a small number of people, with extremely strong technical resources. Vendors are for all those agencies and police that are legally authorized to reach the possibility of diverting calls and so on. The secret control of phone conversations and virtually no one influences them, they are not able to do it, because on other frequencies they operate relationships, they are not able to listen secretly. People come in, official, whether the BIA, the VBA, the police, brought a court order. Right now, it's on, it's got its own deadline. If it doesn't end in time, or if the BIA don't deliver the extension, the measure will be extinguished in itself. The people who run that agency don't depend on the BIA, the BIA depends on the court. A system is created in which no one will ever have a dilemma about whether or not a president can listen to it the way it's said. Unfortunately, there are funds available today for relatively small money, which can be packed into one suitcase, which can be uploaded to the base station, which can virtually listen to most of the citizens of Serbia who have regular phones, but to know that it is not the service, that it is finally and only someone who is not authorized and that we do not have the dilemma that when the president says - someone is listening to me, that it refers to someone who does it. I mean, by the law, someone does, but whoever does it, not for our salary, not for the pay of the citizens who give it to him. That's the point. It's one of the things that needs to be in the new law. I think it would relieve the B.I.A., so it would somehow give the possibility that the B.I.A. would do its job a lot easier. Also, there are things I'd like them to change. I think both BIA and VBA have a rather restrictive relationship with foreign citizens. There are a number of complications that meet in their operational work compared to foreign citizens who are even accredited here as members of various services. It's something that can change and speed up. In the end, I have one question for you, and when this whole discussion is over, I'm interested, given that we had a Secret Service Coordination Bureau, that this Bureau came first from the need to end the UN tribunal's problem, that it still exists today, who is the head of the Bureau for Co-ordination of Secret Services today? We've had two months, the prime minister was head of the Bureau, the prime minister is no longer in that position. Is it possible that Serbia cannot set up a head of the Bureau for the co-ordination of secret services for two months in a situation where the whole top of the MUP has been replaced, in which there is one serious service work, not in a literal sense, but in the work of people who are trying to take certain positions and make room for their progress or for someone's setback. I don't think Serbia should, in such conditions, allow itself to have people who have come to the minister's position with the experience of being extremely small, take over for themselves to solve such a thing. The interior minister announced a secret group that will investigate the origin of the property. What's the IRS for? Why would the M.O.P. do that? All citizens of Serbia who have more than 350,000 euros were tasked with reporting this last year. Today, the tax administration needs to cross-examination. It's not a job for the police. There has been one elemental ignorance of functioning or of turning from serious issues to another topic, so we keep going round and round, chasing some bears, and in fact we don't see that the essence is ahead of us and that it can be solved today without any problems. Please if you know how to tell me if there's a V.D. The chief of the bureau either doesn't exist or is the Bureau, conditionally said, decapitated? If that's the case, then no wonder what's happening to us is happening to you, and you have practically daily news. There is no news in Belgrade anymore that someone has been injured, now news is in what part of the city, whether it is in Slavia or in Bezanski hair, whether it is on Vozdovac, Vrakar. Now people are looking not to be in his area, and it's not about whether someone is hurt or not, because it's become a daily thing and there's just not a tourist tour of those positions that's happening yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3397	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group, MP Dr Suleiman Ugljanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3398	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, BIA, before the MPs of the National Assembly today is the proposal for a law on one of the security services in the Republic of Serbia. The bill promoter claims that the provisions of the laws we are discussing today are in line with the Constitution. In the opinion of SDA Sandzak, it was necessary to move on. It's something we've proposed by amendment to this bill. Effective parliamentary control of the work of security services is essential for the development of democracy in Serbia, strengthening institutions and establishing the rule of law, and in particular from the aspect of the security of members of the national minorities, developing the sense of belonging of minorities to the country in which they live. If BIA is already given the right to enter into some of the fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution, then it must be done under the full control of parliament. The promoter of this amendment and the addition of the Law has well and dealt with the subject we are talking about very precisely. But I will speak from a minority aspect, especially from the aspect of Bosniaks in Serbia. I will talk about the essential things that burden Bosniaks and cause a lasting sense of uncertainty with Bosniaks in Serbia. Which is why today we are looking for additional control and some additional measures in this proposed law when it comes to controlling this segment of work BIA. The proposer of this law had no constitutional and legal right of minorities, especially Bosniaks to learn about the fate of the missing Bosniaks mass-absorbed in mass abductions, killed, about the fate of those who burned the entire Bosniak villages and settlements along the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what happened in our close history, close to the past, that is, between 1991 and 1999. The Bosniaks in this country were victims, I can say freely, of organized state terror by the then ruling regime and their armed forces, especially in our country's work along the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. Many documents testify, both domestic and international reports. These amendments and additions to the Law show no intention or interest in allowing Bosniaks living in Serbia to learn something, as I said about their missing relatives, about those who were abducted, coerced into several mass abductions that took place by the Yugoslav Army and other armed units in the presence of the Serbian or Serbian or Montenegrin police. Unfortunately, active participants in organizing, committing and concealing crimes against Bosniaks...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3399	Mr. Ugljanin, please return to the topic. What you're talking about has nothing to do with this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3400	Let me just say a sentence. It's about the BIA.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3401	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3402	Let me use my time, talk about the subject, and the topic is BIA, which is the national security that is preceding the BIA. We cannot, Mr. Chairman, skip the sufferings of one of the small people, the Bosniaks, who make up in Serbia a one-counted minority. I think it's my turn, if I've spoken in government for five years, and no one has brought it out in public, I have the right to use this home of mine and to convey the sufferings of the Bosniak national minority in the Republic of Serbia. I would ask the promoter to include it in the BIA's obligation to investigate all those on behalf of the then state security, as you know, convicted of participating in crimes against minorities, Serbian citizens. Back then, members of the BIA, you know that both in The Hague and with us are convicted of such misdemeanors...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3403	Mr. Ugljanin, this is merely the alignment of individual members and provisions with the Constitution, with the Constitutional Court's decision. There's a new BIA law in preparation, and when it's on the agenda, then you can talk and give suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3404	Please allow me...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3405	Here you go, but please get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3406	I'll be back on the subject. Let me tell the promoter what I'm asking for, because we don't do cosmetics. In my opinion, this is cosmetics, not essential. Full lighting and processing of crimes committed against minorities, especially the Bosniak people in Sandzak, and serious violations of human rights must be the imperative of this country on its European path, as well as the building of solid democracy and the rule of law. Today's BIA must address the issue of the responsibilities of its members, former and active, who have participated in these misdemeanors and human rights violations in any way. We need to look ourselves in the eye with the truth. It's for the benefit of our European path. Avoiding talking about these things takes us only backwards. Until today, it is not clear who gave the order and who the perpetrators of the shelling village of Poturovici were by the Yugoslav Army on 18 February 1993, when three locals of the village were killed and the village burned down.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3407	Mr. Ugljanin, just tell me what this has to do with what you just said about changing these three members.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3408	It's about fundamental changes in the law, not...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3409	I'm telling you, this is just harmonising these members of the law with the Constitutional Court's decision. The new BIA law will be in preparation, at a public hearing and then you will be able to direct your objections and suggestions and ask to be incorporated into that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3410	Please allow me to use my time and on behalf of the Bosniak national minority...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3411	I have great respect for the Bosniak national minority, but please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3412	If you continue this way, I will review and suggest that the SDA of Sandzak consider our further involvement in this House's work. A few words were taken from me, and so were my MPs. Mr. Imamovic's word was taken away. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been violated. The president violated the Constitution when our amendments to the work of the regulatory bodies were removed without discussion and without considering the board of directors. Is it a good thing we're suing the Constitutional Court now? I thought we should...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3413	As chairman, I need you to comply with the Rules of Procedure's notice, and you go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3414	I've already been distracted, and I have no intention of taking your word for it anymore. My time is running out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3415	You have time. Ten more minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3416	Please consider your attitude towards minorities, especially the Bosniak national minority I started talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3417	Believe me, I respect you. Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3418	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a few reasons. In fact, the respected predecessor mentioned several times as a member of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous term that he spoke of certain security problems that prevail in six municipalities of southwestern Serbia, especially with a view to problems in the City of Novi Pazar. The two of us had one meeting on the subject in the previous term. The meeting lasted almost two hours and our conclusions from the meeting were notified to the competent authorities of the prosecution. I can't say there's nothing done about it. I can tell you about what I did on that basis and I had a lot of understanding that I would then listen to my distinguished colleague about it. Of course, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a place, if I may state my position, as someone who is not an MP, where it should be presented and what are essential problems. Of course, the congregation procedure gives space when it can be done. I had to react here as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when someone said that the state of Serbia had conducted state terror. I am the minister of justice, and the Republic of Serbia is an example of a country of the region that has been prosecuted by individuals suspected of committing crimes against international humanitarian law, humanity and the rights and customs of war. Compare what has been done by the Special Court in Belgrade and the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes with any specialised or regular treatment of the judicial authorities of the region's state and you will see that what our judicial authorities have done absolutely bounced from all other judicial authorities in the former Yugoslavia, without leading at all the biased policy that nationalities were suspected or later convicted of a certain criminal offence which the nationalities of religion or other belongings were the victim of the crime. Every crime has its perpetrator's name and last name. I don't think it's right for me to be in this home, and I'm acting as a resolute minister says that the Republic of Serbia has conducted a state terror against anyone, so whether it's members at the time, when you speak Muslim national minorities, and today, Bosniaks or others. Every crime has its perpetrator's name and last name. I'm just asking you to choose words when we're talking about such sensitive and difficult things and not to say that this country has exercised state terror. Look, it's an extremely difficult and serious qualification. As far as I know, there were people of different ethnicities in this army of Yugoslavia that you mentioned were both Bosniaks and Serbs and Albanians and Hungarians and Roma, but they were not counted by it, and there was also a military judiciary at that time. So, I want to say something more in response to what you said. Since I come from the parts where you come from, since I know that these regions are characterized by an extremely good inter-human communication of people who are religious or nation, because I grew up in such an environment, in me as a resolute minister you will always have a conversation about such problems, as it was when we sat together in government. But I ask you, when we have a particular problem, let's sit down and talk about it, if you think some state institutions aren't doing their job well, let's see how to fix it in a legitimate and good way, but with something that's extremely sensitive. In addition to you there are also in your parliamentary group of colleagues from southern Serbia, whenever there was something we needed to meet to talk, I have always had time for that, and I will always have time, something more for all members of the national minorities than for members of the majority people because it is in a good spirit and tradition of the Serbian state and of the Serbian people as majority here. But don't, please, make this a subject that can sometimes sound cheaper, more political. Say that the state of Serbia has conducted a state terror. Don't, please, let's talk about it. There were sometimes some criminal proceedings that were conducted, so they stopped being led, and the social and political climate changed and the arrangement and a lot of it. This Serbian government is facing the future, but it is based on everything that has been happening here, not in the past 15 or 20, but in the previous 200 or perhaps more than 200 years. Please, that when it comes to such difficult qualifications, we too have consideration for those who speak for the Government and those who speak for the Government in the Assembly and those who attack it. I think these things are above daily politics. Thank you. Like I said, I'll tell you again. My door to problems like this is always open, and if I won't do anything, I'll give it a lot of help to get over it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3419	I thank Minister Selakovic. Mr. Ugljanin, I'll give you my word just to say one more sentence. I ask you to have an understanding for me as chairman, I greatly respect your MP group and I personally and deeply appreciate the interests of national minorities and I am always ready to help, but you must have the understanding that I, as chairman, must react at certain times when I was talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3420	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I had an extraordinary cooperation with you while we were in the government together. However, as you say yourself, and I say, no positive results have been raised on any of the issues that we have spoken. Why don't people respect your word on the ground? There's one thing in the field and there's another in Belgrade. When I was talking about state terror, please, I was talking about the armed forces of the Yugoslav Army that shelled Kukurovic on February 18, 1993. We're witnessing it. I was a 40-year-old man then, 40 and a change of years, and I know it well. I'm talking about it consciously. Secondly, the murder of Ram Berb, Selaudin Causevic, Hasan Mujovic, Sabludin Celj, Mustafa Logli, were committed either by the unformed police officers of the Serbian Army or the Army, let's not run from the truth. I don't give a shit. That was my army. I was hoping for that army. What kind of army and police kill their citizens just because they're other religions and nations? I, Mr. Minister, have, along with you, restored over 70 houses that have been burned down. Of the 275, our government, which we were in together, funded the construction of 22 new houses, installed and over 50 houses, we refurbished with 50%. It was set on fire by the Yugoslav Army. The Bosniaks have been expelled from New Zealand to Los Angeles. The Bosniak waved. Who was responsible for the Bosniak Mahal? My family house is on fire. The house of Vehiba and Murat Ugljanina, my family house. There were two men, inspectors of the M.O.P., and they said, "We're burning this house tonight." That was April 29, 1999. The house is on fire. They didn't even give a picture to get out of that house. That's what I never talked about. I'm forced to speak. It's not terror for individuals. It's organized state terror. It's a shame. If we had worked this out in the government, Minister, you wouldn't be hearing from me here today. Please understand. You're a decent man and a good expert and I trust you. Let's find time to talk so that we don't talk about this mess in front of Serbia and that we don't disturb those people who have suffered basic disasters, floods, and pay attention to Bosniaks who are insecure in Serbia. I want the Bosniaks to gain a sense of belonging to this country, to feel security in this country. That's my goal. I want all Bosniaks to feel safe. Please make time to talk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3421	Thank you, Mr. Ugljanin. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3422	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, the Honorable Representative of the BIA, ladies and gentlemen, in his presentation for the reason that the mandated representative, the Honorable Minister explained nicely what amendments and additions to the BIA Act would not be discussed on these amendments and additions. In my presentation, I will try to look back at some of the raised dilemmas that are the result of the lack of recognition of the essence of intelligence and security work or the ignorance of the BIA Act itself. Today, who knows what time we're discussing the intelligence and security sector, we're facing a few dilemmas. In the work of all the services of all the countries in the world, including our security services, two basic principles must be met. One is the principle of legality, and another is the principle of efficiency. In legal solutions over the past 12 years, in order for us to put the services under democratic civilian control and parliamentary control, it seems to me as chairman of the Security Service Control Committee to discuss with the service managers that we have overemphasised this principle of legality at the expense of the principles of efficiency. You will allow, ladies and gentlemen, inefficient services are not needed by anyone, nor by this state. We must make the necessary harmony between the principles of legality and the principles of efficiency. I agree that we should, we must urgently approach the creation of a new comprehensive, comprehensive BIA law and use the presence of a minister to say that in this direction we are already thinking, in the formation of a quality working group that will make a draft law not only from the aspect of the application of specific methods and means of work which encroach on the Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms of citizens, but also from the aspect of, I would say, the necessary and necessary redefining of the section and tasks of the RS Security Service and their adaptation to the real security challenges, risks and threats. From the reports we adopted these days, six months ago, on the work of the Security Service as president of the Committee, I have noticed, and other members, that time has run over some of the jobs and tasks on which our services are now engaged and that this requires redefining the workarounds and tasks and realistic adaptation to real security challenges, risks and threats. We're facing another dilemma. We say that by applying specific methods and means of work, the Constitution guarantees a guaranteed right of citizens to privacy. I'd say that same constitution guaranteed the right of the citizens to safety. Only a safe citizen can enjoy the right to privacy. An insecure citizen cannot enjoy this right to privacy. It is therefore necessary to respect each other equally with the Constitution guaranteed the right of citizens. When we consider what was in the past and when I wasn't in this House, and I've been working on security matters for a long time, we're discussing the work of security services on purpose or unwittingly neglecting some facts. I have asked the head of the country's security services to provide me with legal solutions on the country's security services with more developed democracy, leading EU and US countries, so I will try to give you some convenient opportunity in this House what legal solutions there are in these security services laws, much more liberal in the application of specific methods and means of work than legal solutions are in our current law. I asked for it. I will get translations of these laws and we want in our new law on BIA, VBA and VOA, because they too are mature for comprehensive development, to install a good practice of the country's security services law with more developed democracy or leading countries or all EU countries, adapted to our real needs, and you will see that there is a much more liberal view of applying specific methods that affect citizens' privacy. Another fact that we always ignore when we discuss such laws, which are specific by their weight, is that the intelligence and security sector in our country is a civilian security service and makes up one military intelligence and one military counterintelligence service. I'll tell you that in the intelligence and security sector of other countries, Germany, France, Great Britain and other countries there are many more services and intelligence and counterintelligence, because our BIA, colleague Panic, will agree with me, has both an intelligence and counterintelligence component. What solutions have the leading EU countries, countries economically, security, territorially applied, however you will, much greater and much stronger than our country? What is not permitted with regard to the application of specific methods and means of one service is allowed to the other. What is not permitted by another is allowed for the third to apply specific methods and means of work to cover almost everything and ensure the country's security. When it comes to BIA, the eyes of the public question whether there are infringements or abuses regarding the application of specific measures and means, since there is a subliminal and intelligence and counterintelligence component, we view it as a single service. If this country, and the need is, I would take advantage of the presence of the Justice Minister, what we once talked about, and later I'll talk about it when it comes to the abuse of special measures and means, to form a special service that will deal with organised crime, something like the FBA, which exists in the United States. The Security Control Committee is now in control of the work of three security services. I ask this Parliament, and I have asked this on the Committee – who controls the legality of the work of the Anti-Organised Crime Service, which also applies the specific methods and means of work that are affecting the privacy of citizens, especially – who controls the work of the Special Measures Unit in the MUP that implements these measures? It's not in the Security Control Committee's custody. That should change. What needs to be changed, which is agreed by the minister, is that, due to frequent accusations of the application of specific methods and means of data collection work, the need to form a single monitoring centre at the Ministry of Justice, to remove the Office for the Combating Organized Crime from the Ministry of Justice and to be the new core of some new FBA-like service dealing with organised crime, high-tech crime. This achieves several goals, that we have in one place specific methods and means of work from people who do not depend on BIA, VOA and VBA, nor are they on the payroll of one, second and third services, and thus are not subject to the influence of the Head of the Service, but in the Justice Ministry's management, who would only technically serve the work of all security services. What you want to do by applying the secret measure, the secret listening and recording, the secret tracking, the covert search, whatever you want, the covert control of postal shipments, I speak for the born, so these methods are not indicated in the bill's amendment and supplementation, but to make it clear to the citizens, it would be in this special monitoring centre that would collect that data, and the clerk would come, take, return and answer. This team before we, Mr. Minister, introduced the Code of Criminal Procedure into a prosecutor's investigation. We would have the prosecution, the SBPOK, a unique monitoring centre and something else needed for the efficiency of the work, and that would be with the justice ministry. This would relieve security services if service directors tried in one way or another, I think not, and I'm sure as chairman of the Security Services Control Committee at the moment that they are not, that they are committing abuses with regard to the application of specific methods and means of work. I will remind you that the collected data, these are special measures, these are not investigative measures, will be agreed by a BIA colleague with me, these are only special measures to be delivered to the D.A., and the D.A.'s office, if it considers that these measures are applied to persons for criminal offences prescribed in the Criminal Procedure Act and for the offences for which the application of special measures is envisaged, can turn that material into evidence in the trial. Most often not, because the defendants and their lawyers will dispute the data obtained in this way, but by applying these special measures, the prosecutor has enough material to impose other measures that would shed light on the crime in question. I would like to remind you that the application of a special measure is done only according to those crimes committed by individuals, organisations, groups or institutions in order to undermine the security of the Republic of Serbia. Applying these measures is not for low-level crimes, it is about jeopardising the security of the Republic of Serbia. It is justified here that, within 48 hours, the Director of BIA may also impose an extended application of the covert surveillance measure if it is established that the person, individual, group or organisation is using other premises or using other means. It is, indeed, in conversation with both the BIA representative and the Security Service Control Committee, the position that it has been too long is prevailing. I wouldn't say that these other 48 hours that need a senior court to make a decision, given our courts, will be excused by the minister, for expensive evaluations, from practice, because I've been doing it my whole life. It could remain for the court to approve or refuse to apply the measures within 48 hours, but I think it's too much to give the Director of the Agency 48 hours. There I agree with counterpart Batic that it should be specified who is changing directors, there is probably a deputy if he is on a journey, etc. And he can suggest. In this context, some amendments to the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are possible. But, give 48 hours, I'd say right now, but that right now, definition right now, but no later than 12 hours or 24 hours. This may be the most liberal position, but 48 hours, I agree, and we will consider and ask the legislator to consider amendments and additions because some parliamentary groups have even conditioned support for these amendments and additions by adopting such an amendment. I see no reason not to adopt that amendment. I think it's too many 48 hours. Then we get into a situation where the person is under 48 hours without any approval. I don't think that's a correct solution. As regards the destruction of the collected material, if the application of the method is granted, if the Director of the Agency orders that an extended application of the method of secret collection be applied, and that is to say, the competent court does not approve the application of that method within 48 hours, what shall be done with the material collected during that time? There have been opinions from DS representatives here that the person to whom the measure has been applied and that material is destroyed in the presence of the competent judge and commission. I don't think there is a need for such a measure when it is known that the Data Accessibility Act allows each person to ask through the Public Information Commissioner whether it has been applied to him, to what extent, to which knowledge has occurred, etc. I think the BIA, or Protector of such demands, has hundreds a day. Why not in the presence of the face? If we had introduced this practice that this material that was collected in those 48 hours on the person concerned was destroyed, then in some way we would have been harassed by a security-intelligence agency with it and harassed by a competent court. Secondly, we would then be dealing with, or in some way, making it difficult for the security-information agency itself to work. Personally, I believe that any citizen who is honorable, honest and honest can ask, and often some do not ask. This ammonism towards the work of the security service and the constant fear that someone is on top of it, do you know who has it? One who is often in need of safety or who fears that he might be processed for something. There have been objections to the Security Control Committee, when we discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the law in principle, that the extended fact of applying the secret collection measures should the Director of the VBA assess that the person benefiting from the second room, other means of communication, that this is also an attack on the constitutional provision of the privacy of the apartment. In the provision you saw, it's not said - apartment, it's said - rooms. The premises can be bus stations, there could be any room. On the other hand, I don't think that these remarks stand for 90% of the citizens, because the explanation of that remark was that there were many people who betrayed their apartments in Belgrade, and probably in the south of me much less. Well, those faces that have so many apartments to rent, the question is, how did they get them? So, 99% of citizens wouldn't have hit that level. How rigidly access to security control here is the very fact that we had the opportunity earlier to take six months, plus six months, on the basis of the decision of the competent court, to apply the secret data collection measure, and now, with these proposed changes and additions, we have placed that every three months, the competent court can assess the purpose of further application of the measure. So, within a year earlier, we had twice as much to consider whether a specific measure is justified, and now we have four times over the year, suggesting that every three months, the competent court assesses whether there is a need and justification for applying and for making a decision to apply the measures. A colleague, Djurisic, made an observation -- why has it been so long that these amendments and amendments to the law, based on the Constitutional Court's decision, are being discussed today in parliament? Ladies and gentlemen, it sounds very strange. If, in 2002, on the basis of the opinion of the NGO sector, firstly brought to the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and then the initiative to amend the non-constitutional provisions of the Constitution waited until 26 December 2013, all possible constitutional courts did not do so until 2013, and now the problem arises why we are these two or three days, from 26 or 29 when these amendments and additions will take place. I think it's declassified and I don't think there are valid reasons, so before the representatives of the Security and Information Agency say it will have no negative consequences for their work these two or three days. It was also waiting because we asked for the opinion of the Protector of the Citizens. You have seen the annual report by the Protectors in the work relating to the work of the Security Service, which was made by the objections. In particular, these amendments and additions to this law are subject to four proposals by the Citizens' Protector, three of whom have been adopted, one of whom has given up. So the views and the Protectors of the citizens and the opinion of the Commissioner for Information are respected in public interest. I agree with my colleague Kovacevic, and with this I will end up, reminding me that it is time, there is much more to say about this, that we need to urgently in the Government to initiate the adoption of a comprehensive, comprehensive, new law on the Security and Information Agency. I believe that we will have the support of both the Government and the Security and Information Agency, and we in the Security Control Committee will give through a system of public hearings of objections, proposals and suggestions for making such a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3423	I thank Mr. Stojanovic. The reply to the presentation of the previous speaker is given by MP Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3424	I'm reporting for replication. I think I'm misread. Namely, the untrustability of the apartment is defined by the Constitution and I didn't talk about when an apartment is issued, who betrays the apartment and whether it has the right to betray it. Mr. Stojanovic didn't understand me. I'm saying it's supposed to be that these measures apply, where they can do anything except in the apartment, not whether the apartment's rented or not. One more thing short, and it concerns an extremely dangerous finding, I say, dangerous, whether the principle of legality is above the principle of efficiency. So we're a democratically arranged society in which the law is law. If it's a bad law and it doesn't allow us to be effective, it needs to change, but we can't put efficiency above the law. What does that mean? So tomorrow in order to get some information, we're talking about applying a measure, someone's also a pendrek measure, and someone's going to come up with that information by beating up their detainee and getting the efficiency he thinks he needs. We can't here in the legislative body, the highest state body to talk about being efficient ahead or above the law. So that's the basic principle of functioning democratic society, protecting legality. So if there's a need for us to be more efficient, then we're changing the law that makes it impossible for us, and we're not letting in a certain way when efficiency is a violation of the law, and the assessment of it will be given by the person who violates it and on the basis of which information it will receive or how it will come to it. So it's something you can't even assume. If we don't change the law, if it's wrong, we adapt to what will be more effective, but that means protecting human rights in a way that is defined by the laws and respect for the UN Charter. I'm going back to the beginning. So it's been my time. I'm sorry, that's all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3425	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The Minister, Mr Nikola Selakovic, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3426	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am really trying to closely monitor the discussion and use only a few seconds to say that injury to the integrity of the apartment is a crime. The crime is prescribed by the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, and it is more difficult to form it if it is made official. So by criminal law, it's prescribed as a felony. Since there is a more serious form of crime when the perpetrator of the crime is an official, of course, that persons who work and in the security services absolutely must be familiar with it and refuse to execute a warrant that is by nature a crime. So I don't see why it would be redefined by this law. We can say – and what would not be and then by prescribing other laws, we would be burdened further. I don't see a single time anyone here is trying to amnest someone who would do something like that with the state. So it's a crime that's being prosecuted by official duty and it's absolutely and unequivocally clear that that's the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3427	We thank Mr. Justice Minister. The replica was reported by MP Momir Stojanovic, and that closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3428	It seems to me that Mr. Sutanovac wasn't in the O.R. during my presentation? Okay, so you were there. I didn't say one or the other principle should be favored, I said that there should be harmony between the principles of efficiency and legality. I said that existing legal solutions seriously call into question the efficiency of the work of the security service and require the adoption of a new comprehensive law both in the BIA and military security services. This is needed not only because of the definition but because of the adaptation of the segments and tasks to real security challenges, risks and threats, because some of the tasks from the report we read together, the six-monthly, say that some of the tasks on which the services have been hired have been overcome. I wouldn't want you to put that on me right now, even if I don't, as chairman of the Security Service Committee, as former head of the Security Service, that I want to sort of bypass the legal principle. Of course, services can only work and only in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3429	I thank Mr. Stojanovic. The word is Mr. Sutanovac, but I only beg you in one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3430	You can't just do it in one sentence. So when we talk about the principle of legality, or efficiency when we say harmony, it's like telling you that there are balanced human rights in Serbia. What does that mean? Someone's got more, someone's got less, and when we balance it, it comes to the same thing. So the harmony, so now we have a legislative principle, we have an efficient, so a little bit of this, and a little bit of that, and then we're in tune. It can't be like that. It's just that it can't and it's not a debate, and don't throw this away, because we're really talking about something that's a very serious thing. So I'm just insisting that the legality be the one that will result in efficiency. It is something that is the basic postulate of a democratic society. I insist on that, and I think the minister appreciates it as a minister of justice, not a minister of efficiency. After all, I think if justice is the way it should be then it'll be effective, that's how it's done with the services. So I don't have any evil intentions or criticism, I'm just saying that people will just think that when they have to do something effectively, they can go around the law a little bit because it's so much more effective. Unfortunately, both for the service and for the service. Let's change the law, make it better. I used to say in my speech that unfortunately giving the law makes it impossible in some segments to work more efficiently, all services, and let's change it, so it's easier for people to work, but to know that they work by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3431	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Now we move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3432	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, at first I should say that the SPS Group will support the draft law amending and supplementing the BIA Act for several reasons that I will talk about later, and the two are basic. The first reason is that it is precisely with this debate that the process of harmonising the BIA Act, with the Constitution and respect for the Constitutional Court's decision, and the other far more important reason is that the MP's group insists that these positive and legal regulations which relate to this law continue to be followed as regards compliance with the Constitution and the law, and we insist on monitoring, not only existing legal solutions, but also future ones, which Mr Momir Stojanovic suggested. What seems very important to me to point out, and what the SPS parliamentary group particularly insists on, is one part of the inspiring speech that Mr. Momir Stojanovic gave, and others what colleagues here have made as certain suggestions even remarks. What good is that? It is good that these amendments and additions to the law introduce judicial control of the conduct of the security services, and it is good that in that judicial control, very clearly and precisely defined mechanisms for which that control is being established. However, what we all agreed today, obviously, is certain procedural and legal solutions, which we in the SPS parliamentary group consider to be in line with other procedural and legal laws, and above all with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, I think it is necessary to consider both amendments and additions to the CAP, when it comes to amendments and additions to the BIA Act. Why? Because, at least we practitioners know that this procedural law cannot be interpreted as a lex specialis in relation to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. On the other hand, if these interventions are not done, there will be room for free interpretation and an automatic cause of unequal judicial practice with which the courts are already overly burdened, which is otherwise a major problem for our judiciary. When we talk about concrete solutions, it is no doubt that what I have praised stands, but what should be the subject of our analysis and discussion is individual provisions of these legal solutions. Article 15b states that, where specific measures are applied, they must be extended, that the Director of the Agency is authorised to issue an order to extend them. Dear Ministers, whether it is in this way affecting the independence of the judiciary and the judicial institutions, primarily the courts, because the provision of Article 15a contains something which is unequivocally clear, and that only the court can issue an order based on an orderly submission by the Director of the Agency. If the sole court is in charge, and is the only one competent to issue an order, then the question is, how can the order be brought at the same time by the director of the agency? In this situation, procedurally-legal in me, something that is collapsing with the provisions of the positive legal regulations, especially procedural laws, and yet if that is the case, we come to that field where my colleague, Momir Stojanović, and especially my distinguished colleague, Olgica Batic, has already intervened, if it is given authority, and not an order to extend the appropriate or certain measures that are prescribed here, with which the SPS parliamentary group absolutely agrees, then there is no time limit that can be given to inform the court that it has used this authority. Then it seems according to our rule of conduct in court practice immediately and without delay, not within 12 hours, not 24 hours, but at least 48 hours. Why immediately and without delay? Because it narrows down the possibility of over-disposition, of broad discretionary authority, I don't want to be rude in any case, so finally, why not abuse. In any case, here, the deadline must in no case be stretching, and any time limit that implies not applying the institute immediately and without delay as a procedural legal solution is an automatic stretching time limit. On the other hand, I would agree that the deadline under which the Court of Justice of 48 hours decides may, in certain situations, but I say again only in certain situations, be acceptable, because yet with the Court one such deadline is necessary in order to provide a comprehensive and caring analysis of the evidence to be applied to the request, and these evidence again justify basic doubts, that these measures must be applied, and then we can accept that deadline in some way, and in this direction I do not think that the amendments should be intervened, i.e. that these interventions should be accepted. With all due respect to counterpart Batic, I would draw attention to only one technical old man she pointed to, and this is about the authority of others, except the director of the agency. What if the Director of the Agency is not physically present, so in this situation who will file a request or who will inform the court in the event of an extension of the measure? A respected colleague Panic is here in front of the agency, so before I even engage in an analysis of such a technical intervention, it would be necessary to consider the agency's normative act. If those normative acts of the Agency provide for who to amend the Director of the Agency in the event of its absence, if so, then it is logical that this normative act has already defined who will apply or take a procedural and legal action relating to the environment when the Director of the Agency is not physically present. If this is a normative act, and I suppose it is and I already see your approvals in that direction, then I don't think that this technical solution must be covered in any case by the amendment, except for this suggestion, which is well-intentioned by her colleague Batic, given that special measures are at stake. In any case, I think it would be good if we didn't fluctuate too much, because every excessive norm brings us back to another extreme that needs to be avoided, which is the wholeness and efficiency, and especially the application of the law. Finally, given that I have already said that the parliamentary group will in any case support, without backing the proposed text of the law on amendments to the law that we are discussing today, I just have to draw attention to one more fact, we may have touched it a little in the course of the debate, that in no case is this deadline that has been critically observed, which is why we have not previously acted upon by the Constitutional Court's decision. It simply could not have been done for various procedural and legal reasons earlier and in this direction, criticism was not established. On the other hand, I think that Parliament, as the most legislative body, is obliged to continue to monitor the harmonisation of such procedural and legal solutions, because it is nevertheless the procedural and legal elements of a law, to continue to monitor whether they are fully in line with the Constitution, so that we do not again come into the situation, that in the case of some initiative, for the examination of the constitutionality and legality of these provisions, the Constitutional Court takes the same or similar decision, after which we will be forced to re-change existing legal solutions. In any case, I am convinced that this Parliament will soon bring about one comprehensive, consistent, applicable and effective law that will remove all these dilemmas that we have discussed today, and in particular correct certain procedural and legal shortcomings, which may not be corrected, given that we are limited to amendments only to the proposed text of the law, and not to the whole law. Finally, the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3433	The word has a minister of justice, Mr Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3434	I would really like to respond to one thesis that is more often than respected predecessors, speakers, highlighted, so it is now by Mr. Neđa Jovanovic and to draw attention to something that is, I suppose, accidentally neglected and accidentally passed over. The first was said by distinguished counterpart Olgica Batic and a few other MPs, including Mr. Momir Stojanovic, the subject, or security interest, is a person, not a certain number of phones. Ignore the fact that when there is an expansion of the measure, it is an extension of the measure towards the person that is already under measures. So it's about the person that the court has set special measures for before. You know that in a world of organized crime and how it is present that people who deal with such affairs often change the sight of communication to cover their tracks. So we can't say "safely one phone number is interesting", whoever is using it. No, I don't. Interestingly, the person who uses it and in case of a change in vision of communication, you extend the measure to the person to whom a special measure has already been set. That's why I don't think it's like you said something that violates the independence of the judiciary. The court has already said that one person has security interest and approved the application of certain special measures to that person. Of course, we'll discuss this in detail, but I've now responded to this particular detail, as well as to the 48 hours everyone really looked back on and with full right, criticised this solution. We'll talk more about it in the discussion of details, but here, since whether or not an MP who supports the government has all turned a blind eye to this, I just wanted to draw attention to that other aspect, therefore, a more liberal person, to him, are already certain measures, and the measures are being extended, and therefore this mechanism, the process mechanism, we can say something more liberal than the first measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3435	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's MP Nedjo Jovanovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3436	First of all, I don't want you to take this as a classic replica, but as a way to find the best solution, anyway, which is why we're here. When I said I was inspired by Mr. Momir Stojanovic, I said something else, because he gave guidance for one future law. When we talk about measures, I will fully agree with you that it is the person to whom the measures are already being set, but at the same time it is also the jurisdiction of the institution that determines these measures, which is the court, because the court receives a request. Who's legitimized to file a motion? Director of the agency. The only one has the authority to file a request. Who decides on a request? It's the court's decision. How does he decide in what form? It decides in the form of orders, and already in Article 15b we have a systematic or normised or I fear if we adopt perhaps even wrongly, not only interpretation but in application, one provision that says it will order an extension of a special measure. Now that term ‘order an extension of a special measure’ is collapsing with what I was saying in relation to the provision of Article 15a, because an order or order can only be issued by a court. And it's the only decision that the court makes in accordance with the provisions of this law, which is why I said that there is a danger of us entering the usurpation of jurisdiction, which will be done if this formulation remains. It is not disputed to refer to one person and it is not disputed that this person is covered by measures and it is not disputed that measures should be extended to that person, but it is disputed who extends them and who orders their expansion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3437	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The Minister, Mr Nikola Selakovic, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3438	To a good extent, I agree with what you said and I would suggest that the wording, or the term "order" be changed by the term "imposed". (Momir Stojanovic, from the post: Don't make a solution. But the court is also making a decision, which is why we can't. When the court refuses to apply the measures, it is not an order, but a solution, so it is not true that the court is only giving the order. The court shall give the order when it determines the measures and the solution when it rejects the proposal for a measure. So, come on, we can also find out about it, in particular we'll talk, and through a committee session to propose through the amendment some other term. I'll take the opportunity to mention something else now. We're one of the few countries where you can buy, say, a card with a cell phone connection, without personal documents, without having to register as a user of a particular number of phones. I know the BIA suggested, say, introducing that obligation and I'm okay with it. Look, as a tourist, you go to some of the surrounding countries and ask for a passport when you want to buy a mobile connection, or SIM card, and in Serbia you don't. I fully agree with what you said and Mr. Stojanović and you and Mr. Sutanovac and Mr. Djurisic and my colleague Batić, let's seriously work on the new law, but here are some things that are being opened now as questions and in just one sentence, I support what you said just before – why did this take so long? Because we wanted to bring this text into line and get positive opinions from independent state bodies, such as the Protector, citizens or the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. It is not an easy way to go, and to risk making provisions that will again apply for the assessment of constitutionality would be much more unserious than someone would find inconclusive delays of one day. I don't justify anyone, but I think a quality solution was an absolute priority in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3439	Thank you, Mr. Selakovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3440	Thank you. This bill, which deals with a very important topic and the rule of life in one country -- security, human rights, rule of law; is another proof that the Serbian government continues to nipods to the Assembly and treat it as to its own body that is there to sometimes vote something if it gets some kind of bill. Why am I saying that? For a number of reasons. The first thing is because we got a proposal from the government, which is signed by no one knows who. It says in a document that we all got that was signed by the Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic, and reading the signature says it's Alexander Vukic. Tell me it's serious, tell me it's one real serious relationship with this government, if not the BIA who doesn't have a job, at least the minister of justice could have told the Prime Minister to sign something that wasn't an adequate document. The second question is, why was the deadline that the Constitutional Court gave to amend this law broken? That explanation that six months have been spent agreeing to hear the views of the Information Commissioner, the Citizens' Protector, is completely incorrect. One and the other, in public yesterday, published their disagreements with this bill, explicitly, with which members disagree, where they are dissatisfied, where they are partially satisfied and it is very interesting that you do not know it now, and you spent six months agreeing with the bill with them. Why wasn't the session of the Assembly scheduled yesterday when he said six months? The reason is bizarre, because yesterday was Thursday, the last of this month, and then the government must come before MPs if a session is scheduled for Thursday, which is the last of the month, to come to the whole government in front of MPs and to suffer asking questions in which I thought I was taking part very actively. I'm inclined to think, and it's not far from being right, that the deadline given by the Constitutional Court was broken so the session wouldn't be yesterday and that the government wouldn't have to answer parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3441	Mr. Zivkovic, please return to your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3442	I'm just talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3443	You didn't talk about the agenda. Please return to your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3444	I'm talking about anomalies that are in the appointment of this session where one item of the agenda is this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3445	We're not talking about an appointment. There is no debate on the appointment of the sitting, the debate is under way on the amendments of three members to the BIA Act and on compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3446	I'm talking about the fact that the Constitutional Court's decision was violated again by the government because yesterday's session wasn't scheduled.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3447	This will be assessed by the Constitutional Court again if it reconsiders that decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3448	It's mine to warn you. The opposition has this educational function, to warn the authorities when they're wrong. One important question, and it was asked by other MPs, so I don't think it will be denied to ask him -- who's the head of the Security Service Co-ordination Bureau, and what does this Bureau, the Serbian government and the BIA think about the generals who were appointed to the police the other day? Are they to blame for something or has it been changed because he was a whim of someone? If there was a reason for them to be replaced, why haven't they been replaced before? What's the position of intelligence on that? If you've already given that information how many people have been observed last year by your measurements, I think it would be nice for the MPs to find out. However, parliament is one important body, so it would be perfectly natural that if you had already sent it to an NGO or I don't know which other body, that we would hear it today. It's a question for the minister. It is very unusual for a number of my colleagues to speak very clearly against this bill. I am talking about Mr. General Stojanovic, Mrs. Batic, about Sutanovac, about Jovanovic, and that three of them will say that they will vote unreservedly for the law, and they have made objections to this text that came before all of us. I would like to remember a little bit that we have been chosen here by not a coalition agreement but by the will of the Serbian citizens and that we should protect the interests of Serbian citizens in this parliament, not by acting as someone has agreed in a secret place. Of course, we will not vote in favour of this bill and I think it would be a good idea that, when the deadline has been broken, the government withdraws this bill, that during the summer break we are working a little seriously on a new law that we all agree on that there is a need and that this is a bad solution, the minister said, and that at the beginning of the next regular session we have a good law on this topic and that it is then adopted in a way that is appropriate to a parliament in Serbia at the beginning of the XXI century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3449	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3450	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have said that I think a new law should be passed, but a new law that needs to be governed by the BIA cannot be passed in six months. Why? For a simple reason, because the law to this extent is of interest to all those who assess the government's legislative and proposing work, including the Council of Europe as a pan-European human rights organisation, including the European Commission, which gives opinions on certain laws, including the participation of the entire public and the implementation of a good public debate. It can't be done during the summer break, and especially not to fend for public debate when people are on vacation. So, this is, as certain opposition MPs noted very well at the beginning of the debate, an extorted bill. Why? Because someone was passing laws that were against constitutional law. Then the Constitutional Court assessed certain provisions of a law that were not in agreement with the Constitution and then it was necessary to deal with the correction of those provisions. Sometimes it's easier to write a new law than to correct something that's wrong, but in this case, given that it's very important provisions for protecting the country's security, it was necessary to react in this way. I am convinced that the people who lead the BIA will also be transferred, and I will work as a representative of the government, an authorised representative of the promoters, to give them some general impressions and consent that both the MPs and MPs of the opposition have come to see. This is something that was necessary, and that's why we're discussing this today. No more than that. If there's a break, I'll take a break, if not when there's a debate in particular, to see where the Guardian and the Trustee have explicitly delivered their negative opinion on this law. I have their opinions in writing before me. I can also show that, I can also read it for the public, because it is said here that they did not give a positive opinion, and they gave a positive opinion. I'm asking someone who claims otherwise to also present the signature in writing, with the seal of the state authorities that are mentioned and to say in what way he claims the opposite of what I said. The government has also taken these opinions into account by establishing the bill. Here – Opinion on the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BIA Act with the heading of the Republic of Serbia, Protector of Citizens, Act 45-479/2014 with the seal and signature of the Protector of Citizens. I think this is an absolutely relevant opinion. When the second regulatory authority is asked, and this is the Commissioner for Public Information, here is the opinion of the Commissioner for Public Information and Data Protection of Loyalty, where the seal of the Trustee stands and the signature of the Deputy Trustee. I think this is what's relevant to us when we determine the bill today when we're discussing it. It is possible that someone may change their mind, but it is known precisely by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government which is the procedure. It is true that the Guardian and the Trustee have made certain remarks and it is also true that the draftr of the law has respected the objection. I don't know what's going on here. Don't place any misinformation. On the one hand, I say they gave their positive opinion. Even in the first sentence, the Guardian of Citizens stands clear and says: "The Protector of Citizens welcomes the work done to prepare the necessary but not sufficient changes to the organic BIA law. The opinion of the Citizens' Protector on the draft is positive. “ Therefore, the view of the bill is positive with the exception of one provision and with several important notes. This exception to a provision is in line with the opinion of the Citizens' Protector, and you can read it in the draft, or in the draft law under discussion today. I am pleased that MPs and authorities and opposition have drawn attention to those provisions that the Citizens' Protector has placed an important note on, but the opinion is positive. If that opinion were not positive, we would not be discussing this bill today. I'm asking you to take things out the way they are. It's a positive opinion. The remark that has been placed has been respected. The notes that have been given have also been respected. I think that's the main quality of this bill, which on one and how sensitive the subject is, we can achieve agreement with both the Citizens' Protector and the Trustee. Don't be like us as promoters advertised for inconclusiveness and for allegedly disrespecting objections. Please, once again, tell me where are these documentary statements from the Guardians of Citizens and Trustees, that this bill has no positive opinion?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3451	Thank you, Mr. Selakovic. After the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Babic, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3452	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, Rule 107 has been violated. I hope you'll allow me a few sentences to explain to you what injured the Rules of Procedure. (President: here you go. ) It makes me sad that the fact that there's a MP in this room who's not ready, I don't want to say either, to read one bill longer than one and that first party, but it's tragic when that first page is badly interpreted. The citizens of Serbia are still looking at us. Everything we say, the interpretation of what we say is very important, and I see in it a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and in that I see that you had to have a fellow MP who spoke before Mr Selakovic to warn, when he said that the session of the Assembly was not scheduled yesterday. The National Assembly session, which is the wrong interpretation, that is, the first page he was able to read, was scheduled on Wednesday 25 June for Friday 27 June, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the law, in accordance with all that defines the work of the National Assembly. The desire to manifest itself as someone before whom, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, my God, trembles, is an additional humiliation to the dignity of the National Assembly, because I think we are building a society in which opinions are exchanged, different political views, where no one is shivering or fleeing, especially the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has received a mandate from Serbian citizens, and this is the overwhelming support of Serbian citizens, in front of some who have two members and two MPs in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3453	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, because I warned Mr. Zivkovic when he was talking about what wasn't the point of the agenda. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3454	Thank you. I point out the violation of Article 104(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, given that fellow MP Zivkovic was the least misread by my presentation, stating that I am in one collapsing if, as it is stated, I am bringing myself into collapsing by supporting the law at the same time. I must draw attention to all of us here, exclusively in order to respect the Rules of Procedure. It is our democratic right of all MPs to debate, but it is also our business obligation, and since we already have a business obligation to discuss the law, then we are discussing to raise its quality, to point out our suggestions, remarks, all that we can help to make this law here efficient and applicable. It's obligations and positions and opposition. When I said that the SPS parliamentary group would support this law, and will support it, I guess it's quite logical that part of the ruling coalition and the coalition itself supports the government in its quest to bring all that is unconstitutional to the Constitutional Court's decision, in order to be fully in line with the Constitution, which is what we are doing today as a point of the agenda right now. No one can take that right from us, nor can it be misread. That's why I'm asking you to sanction the Rules of Procedure in future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3455	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You have three reasons to give me the right to the replica. Mr. Jovanovic also mentioned me. Mr. Babic called me. Mr. Zivkovic, there is no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: And the minister called me to say... ) Mr Babic and Mr Jovanovic spoke about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You only have the possibility of replicating the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3456	Even though the minister isn't here, but if the hand of justice is a debt, I guess some other bodies of justice are long, too, so they hear. I was asked to point out what was not accepted by the people's protector on this bill. That's exactly the part, I'm trying to figure out which member it is, where it indicates what to do with the material that's been collected about someone in 48 hours, and then it turns out there's no basis for it. The proposal was to destroy it. I think it's Article 15v, if I'm not mistaken. The BIA gentlemen can help me if I'm wrong or not. This is a proposal by the Protector of Citizens, to destroy or show the person who has been unauthorizedly processed and that proposal is not included in the draft law. That's what I'm talking about and it's clear as day. Secondly, I've said five more arguments about the way the government treats this body, the Assembly. I asked five questions the minister didn't give me the answer to, and he could have given it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3457	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marjan Rističević, upon application for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3458	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to continue with this much heat, with this much pace, and when it comes to agriculture, some of my fellow Members are also discussing the topic of agriculture, and apparently this topic around the BIA, which was once a lame information agency, and then I'll say why I think it, I'd like to say that as a farmer, when agriculture is on the agenda, with this much heat, even if we farmers, to defend the subject. Since we farmers still had the honour of dispensing a federal interior minister in our career, I think I'm qualified as his colleague to speak on this subject. Not only were we able to bring down a federal minister without saying that in the distant past we had brought out many famous names such as Tesla, Pupin, not to mention Karadjordz, Obrenović, but here we had in the recent history of 2000 and the federal interior minister, as well as the prime minister in 2003. If the services had done their job in the way they were supposed to, if they had collected information in the manner provided for by this law, amendments and additions to the BIA Act, that service would not have been meaningless at the time, but would have been safe. But why was she lame at the time? For the simple reason that at that time in front of the government building, in the government's yard, the prime minister was shot, who at that time went on crutches and was disabled. Look at the wonders, someone who advocates the rule of law here so loudly, and I support it, at that point he was in charge of security along with the Republic's Home Secretary, who was also supposed to take care of security measures, etc., not that he wasn't responding, but he was adventing. Therefore, one who should in a certain way take care of the security of the country, officials, Member States, etc., together with the Minister for Security of a Member State, has taken an adventure. One became prime minister, and the other did not bear any sanctions, but was himself proposed as prime minister in the new government. Not to say that that agency was lame back then, I'll give you the next reason. A person has been elected Deputy Prime Minister who has admitted to visiting those people who were suspected of killing the prime minister in prison. When we talk about the rule of law, we should know that it was then that an anti-constitutional emergency was introduced. So, what security measures were, as was the rule of law, when instead of in part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, what the Constitution then predicted, the state of emergency was introduced throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. At the time, various security measures were combined, and one was very interesting, and that was a combination of measures from war and emergency. Since I was an MP back then, I'm a witness to that time. At that time, the rule of law was such that you could listen to whoever you wanted, you could arrest whoever you wanted, so you introduced a state of emergency to remove the reasons that led to the emergency, which was killing the prime minister, and instead of arresting those who were taking a bath with the killers, 13,000 people were arrested, who obviously couldn't have been involved in killing the prime minister. That's how the security services did it. That's how a lame security guard worked, instead of a security-dealing information agency. So, people have been arrested. There are 12,000 people under arrest. I guess several hundred were processed, and the state had to pay, or the citizens of the budget, all of which failed by the then federal interior minister, the republican interior minister, to miss the then government headed by the prime minister, and of course they didn't pay the cost. The best were those who were responsible for what happened in the government's yard, and not for not bearing any sanctions, but for not answering. History is full of strange cases, including the changed generals who were the subject here. My colleague, a farmer, most likely to have an objection to the appointed generals, I don't. So, I believe that now after the general's shift, there will be some new general, some chief, etc., the CAP that will begin to investigate security cases that are very interesting for the country's security. For example, the Beopetroll question, Sartida, which has so many of our tanks melted. That's very interesting for the country's safety. I believe that a new general will question how it will sell Sartid, under what conditions, in which way, who was then prime minister, who was then the finance minister, who was responsible for everything that happened. I think some new general will do it. The Ustasha building. It's a former building that used to be the Central Committee, which was also safely interesting with its height, with its transmitters, could serve for nothing. It should be examined how this was sold, as one contract came before the lawyer, the other signed, that there was no firm in the competition with which the contract was signed six months later. At the time the competition was announced, the company didn't even exist, it was created six months later. It would be good to get...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3459	Mr. Zivkovic, just connect it to the BIA. I'm trying. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Mr. Chairman, I am Zivkovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3460	Sure that's to connect it to the B.I.A. If we had measures... Please calm down these unarticulated screams. I understand my colleagues, especially my fellow farmers, but I'm asking you to try and calm him down, because he can't concentrate on me or outwit me. Listen, I can handle the noise, but unarticulated a little harder, but I don't get to deconcentrate. I can't even outwit myself. To outsmart me, people must have the privilege of being wise, and those who are so unarticulated, obviously lack something in wisdom. I'm saying that BIA, if there were these measures, might not have happened if we had such privatisations that were safely interesting to the country, and you agree that Sartide, Beopetrol, were and how important to the country's security, since Beopetrol was supposed to be able to pay for the damage to another country. Someone had to go to the BIA, at the time, to pay particular attention that we do not have such savage privatisations that harm the country's citizens and the country's security. I didn't mention generals, some others mentioned them. It is likely that some of the cases, of which I have listed, will be opened, and perhaps it will be an open vineyard, which is also of security interest. You know why? Because there's a surveillance radar nearby. So it can be very easy to open, but I don't want to spoil your time. You will agree that the "Satellite" affair is a security case for discussion. I would like to remind you that our own presidencies consisted of three members of the citizens of Montenegro or members of the Montenegrin nation have made a decision to buy, rent a satellite, together for two states, but to pay out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which was also safely interesting. He's been leased a satellite to fight terrorism, to have communication and to monitor what we're discussing today. Look at the wonders, we rented it so that we get the footage 48 hours later and get it even to the country that rented us a satellite, so they need to know what we need to know and what we paid with that lease of over tens of millions of euros. I think that more than 30m euros have been paid by our country for a contract that is a member of the presidency of Montenegro, the then president of the SRJ or the SCG signed at a hotel in Paris, if I recall, in France. We paid dearly for that security measure. So, those footage we're getting with a 48-hour delay, which we paid 50m euros, can't defend us against terrorism. Imagine now, terrorists enter the Presevo Valley, come somewhere on the Serbian border, enter Serbia, make a terrorist act, and we get footage after 48 hours. Then they can reach Australia, Syria, Angola, Jar. In 48 hours, they can change 5-6 continents. I'm talking about the fact that we've had a lot of security failures, that we haven't been able to monitor some important things, that we've had some terrible things happen to us because of the failure of the security services, that the security services haven't been sanctioned, that all this has been done to harm the citizens, and that's the "Satellite" affair we've paid for. Often equipment has been changed during the rule of former governments and such prime ministers due to decommissioning at ties. They couldn't possibly understand that it wasn't a malfunction to the frequency, that it wasn't a malfunction to the equipment, but that it was a cramping of the people because of their authority, that they left them hungry. They built their own castles, lived like a fairy tale, and the people animalized and lived like a fable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3461	I thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica. I apologize again for the lapus.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3462	I hope it doesn't happen again. Since I was called by the previous speaker very explicitly, only a few things for the sake of the Serbian public. It's about Sartide and the privatisation of Sartide. First, it was not privatisation and in no way depended on the Serbian government, but depended on the competent court. On the other hand, political and economic I am absolutely proud of that decision and privatisation, today and always. The privatisation of Beopetrola was made through a tender. The biggest guarantee, apart from other government members and other people who worked at the state administration at the time, was done by law and for the benefit of the state, is the current mayor of Belgrade, who at the time, when the privatisation of the tobacco industries, Beopetrol and some other firms were the head of the tendering sector at the Privatisation Agency. If you have any objections to those privatisations, to the mayor of Belgrade, across the street, you can assume that. I'm sure it's absolutely clean. The proof is that these are companies that work and that the state has no problem, nor will they ever have it. It is true that at some point I was also the Prime Minister of Serbia, and it is true that at that moment, I was voted by DOS MPs, and among them by some whom I, and even today, felt contempt. One of them spoke after me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3463	I thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Replica, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3464	Some feeling despised doesn't even bother me at all. I don't see my previous colleague as an opponent. A man is valued for how great his opponents are. So I can't appreciate myself for an opponent who's trying to be my opponent, because his size is nothing to me. It's so small that if I were to treat my opponent, then I wouldn't be worth anything. What I claimed - that the overheated tanks in Sartid were and that the privatisation was made during the "Sablje". So, security damage to the country was done. In doing so, the entire debt of one billion euros was taken over by the state, and Sartid was sold without any debts, it seems to me to an American company that mainly used the hardware to melt these tanks. So, everything I was saying, I was talking about security risks that occurred during some prime ministers. I was even honored to have one of our fellow farmers, even if they were for a certain time, achieve such high functions. Someone who has been a farmer for three years has, unlike other farmers, very expensively charged their agricultural activity for a certain period of time. When someone gets 525 thousand euros from the country or 170 and some thousand euros per year for three years, the country's most paid person is the most paid farmer in Serbia, Europe, and perhaps in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3465	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Let MP Dragan Shormaz be prepared. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: According to the Rules of Procedure.) Mr. Sutanovac, you've now entered the O.R. You weren't in the O.R. You can't get a word in. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I am right, according to the Rules of Procedure.) Mr. Sutanovac, you weren't in the O.R. (Dear Sutanovac, from the city: I insist. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac, if you insist, but I don't think this is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3466	Article 107. I insist, because you've allowed a debate to take place that has nothing to do with the agenda. It's your fault. We've been working on a lot of correct conditions all day, talking about things that are very serious, and then let's say a series of false things. No tank has ever been melted in the Sartide. The fact is that by 2005, in 2006, some tanks were sold as old iron, as it happened at the end of 2012, just at the time of your government. This case of the retired colonel and the active colonel's arrests takes place from November 2012 until April 2013, and the whole case is tied to cutting off tanks exported through a company that gets a pricer how to buy and at what price. And these tanks weren't melted in Sartide, they were supposed to be exported. I'm asking you not to let yourself be manipulated here with things that are common knowledge. Sartid does not have the technical ability to melt this alloy of steel from which the tank is made of. Remember that. You're also a member of the Defence and Security Committee, you should know things like that. And what you've allowed the previous speaker, it's really embarrassing, because the federal interior minister was never in charge of the security of the republican authorities. If you don't know that, Mr. Panic is on break, he can explain. He knows it well because he worked in that BIA and in 2003, that sad 12th of March, and he knows what was going on and he knows how it worked. I'm asking you not to let this session get that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3467	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Do you want us to make a statement in voter's day? (No) Thank you. After the breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3468	The Honorable Chairman, a member of the 103 was injured because a former MP appeared after the breach of the Rules of Procedure and was not quoted by any member who had actually been injured by that part of the Rules of Procedure. And I don't know what ground he got his word on? If someone really gets excited, they're talking about melting tanks, so the second floor has to fly down to the O.R. to deny us or confirm what was going on back then, then that's enough to tell us that there's really no clean business at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3469	Thank you. According to the application, the People's MP Vera Paunovic. Let MP Dragan Shormaz be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3470	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. Minister and other members of the Government, the adoption of these legal amendments and the addition of the harmonisation of the provisions of several members of the Security and Information Agency Act with the Constitution. Dispute members whose alterations are regulated by one of the most sensitive areas in the law itself, which is a matter of protection of the right to privacy, i.e. seeking the right balance between the exercise of the right to the privacy of citizens, on the one hand, and the creation of an effective system for the collection of information important for national security, on the other. Making the right balance between these two demands is an extremely demanding task for every legal system and even for those in the most developed countries. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court has brought down three members of the Law that regulated this issue, and as it is a very important matter, which directly entangles the individual's interest and the interests of the state, I believe it is a good idea that these changes are made by an emergency procedure, so that no legal voids are left to be left behind, in order to subsequently devalue the efforts of the workers of the Security and Information Agency through the destruction of the evidence collected in the court or through possible litigation of rights to the privacy of citizens. If we look at the proposed amendments and the additions of the Law, we can conclude that these substances are much more extensive, more detailed and more precise than in the current Law, i.e. clearer rules under which specific data collection measures can be prescribed. What I consider to be a key change is that the rules in this area are in line with the Code of Criminal Procedure which already contains such and similar provisions in the section relating to specific evidence actions. This will avoid dualism of legal norms in this area, as most of these special evidence actions are related to the work of the BIA, the fight against organised crime and the protection of national security. I think it is a good thing that the power to decide on the application of special measures is being removed from the President of the Supreme Cassation Court to the President of the Great Court in Belgrade, given that he is in a position of superior to the Judges of the Department of Organized Crime, and that he must therefore be significantly more familiar with the practical application of this law and will be able to decide more effectively when the application of these measures is really necessary. If amendments to the law will adopt the principle that the application of these specific measures must represent only the ultimate possibility of collecting information, then a solution to limit the application of these measures and possibly reassess every three months instead of six months, as well as a reduction of deadlines for the court to declare the possible application of measures from 72 to 48 hours is justified. The third positive newspaper, which I notice, is the possibility of a two-stage decision or appeal by the BIA to a possible solution to the refusal to apply the measure to the Court of Appeal. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the PUPS parliamentary group believes that the proposed Security and Information Agency Act will contribute to its better quality work, while at the same time increasing the level of protection of the privacy of our citizens, and will certainly support this legislative proposal in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3471	Thank you, Mrs. Paunovic. The People's MP Dragan Šormaz has the word, and let the MP Vladimir Djukanovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3472	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's all so clear here that we have one working day and we need to finish everything about that day the way it is in the Rules of Procedure. I don't think there's any big reason for a lot of talking. It is a law that was passed several years ago, which was supported by many who are now the opposition, some were also power when it was passed, like me. We have all participated in this in some way, but we have come to the situation that the Constitutional Court of Serbia, by its decision of 26 December 2013, established that the provisions of Articles 13, 14 and 15 of the Law, which we are talking about, are not in agreement with the Constitution of Serbia, and therefore it was the government's obligation to prepare a new proposal for us, as well as for us as the National Assembly, to end all of this by this day, to adopt, in order first of all, that the BIA may continue its work and be effective in the fight against organised crime, against terrorism, corruption and all that threatens our national security. Here, above all, these members refer, as we all know, to these so-called so-called members. Special measures. I'm going to take this opportunity to read. Everything and everything that I've noticed so far and that "Sabreya" has been debated. I just have to say one thing intimately about what was discussed and who was doing what then. However, I personally know a man who is now a senior official of our country and who is held in "Sabrelja" in a windowless room, with a few days of a single light bulb lit above him that he does not know when the day is and when the night is. He received compensation in court because it was done to him and without any grounds. "Sabela" is not Serbia's pretty face, and it would be better if we all forgot it and didn't talk much about it here. What's important to say for this law is what are top-notch measures and what we mean by special measures of secret data collection. These measures are numerous and diverse. I'm going to read something that can be called definition, although given the technology, the technique, everything that happens in the world, and these measures themselves are subject to changes in maltene every day, not to say very often. They are diverse and are constantly developing and changing. It should be stressed that special measures are applied for two basic purposes - in the investigation of criminal offences and for the protection of national security - the Council of Europe, which is already mentioned here, as a common denominator of special investigation techniques used in criminal proceedings, accepts their secrecy, and the fact that their application can endanger fundamental rights and freedoms - the secrecy of data collection is a basic feature of specific measures not only when it comes to criminal proceedings, but also when they are applied for the protection of national security, but also when controlling transactions of financial assets and goods. More precise specific measures can be found in the laws of both our countries and other countries, and these are mostly secret surveillance, telecommunications and mail. In this bill, we write – letters, which is just as little antiquated as communication is much more done in some other way than letters, especially those who deal with organised crime and hardly apply letters as a form of communication and agreement between themselves, but my God. It's a topic for this future law. I support the minister in what he said. Of course we need a new law, and of course we're going to have to bring it in because of European integration and everything and not just here. Even in this area, many do not have certain standards in the EU. There are different situations as security services are organised in different countries. In that part of the military security sector, we're going to have to change things pretty much because, let's say, our VBA has some activities and some powers that are entrusted to it that shouldn't work. In the coming period, we're going to have to change the same thing with legal proposals. It's such sensitive questions that it can't be done backwards application, it can't be done in a hurry. A wide public must be involved in the country and we must have agreement with both the Council of Europe and the European Commission and possibly the OSCE, etc. It's one job more than a year for sure. Again on the other hand, I would also appeal to the Minister and the Government that it may be time to go and this shows us to go to that job so that some terms do not wait for us again because I am convinced that we will enter the EU very quickly so that we cannot be able to move quickly. We better get ready now than to do it in two, three years' time. Basically, and I'll end up with, the remarks I hear are again, they'll talk when they're amendments and we'll talk, more formal nature -- which is what this last date is about. That they are not in this way essential remarks made by representatives of the public sector. They said it. They got the support for that, and in essence, I think that we should support all of this and get this job done now for the weekend so that the BIA can do all its competences in its full capacity and give its contribution that has been really great so far in the fight against organised crime and corruption, because it's all waiting for us in the reforms that we have both in the police and in the BIA and in other security sectors, to fight against and those that continue to trade drugs on our streets, and also those who are used to being privileged in the markets, to use monopolies, to use corruption, and also in state bodies and to calculate themselves to gain some personal benefit. For all that, I think we should support this bill and vote. In the day that we discuss amendments, we can also discuss these petty remarks that I see on this proposal, but then seriously go to work on a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3473	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3474	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister, the Honorable Mr. Councilor of the BIA, we may have come into an awkward situation right now because we are at risk if such a law, or amendments and additions to such a law, were refused, would endanger the work of the BIA itself. The Constitutional Court's decision is what it is. She must be respected, but I would really ask you, Mr. Minister, what you just said, which is that you will make sure that in a recent period, and I agree with you that it can't just happen within about two months, it takes a wide public debate for this law, to get a new quality law on BIA work, because this one too has been told that it's temporary, so for God's sakes 12 years. So much for this temporaryity, and it would be good if we really got one quality law. I have to admit, I have some remarks about these changes and additions, but I'd like to look back on the work and what we're reading in the press. It seems to me now that we're going to a completely different extreme, that we have certain people, especially in the NGO sector, where it's about required by the Security Information Agency that it's about to give up a list of employees and agents and what they're doing and what they're doing, which is certainly not normal again. With that in mind, I would really ask for a measure to be found here, simply to make a law that would really harmonize the position of the security-informative agency itself in this society, because it can't be discovered there, given that it's an agency that is working on the security of the state and fundamental interests of some state. On the other hand, don't let it be some kind of conspiracy organization, like sometimes in the Soviet Union, so we can get some new Barry here or I don't know what. We often get a variety of objections about how we have a variety of secret organizations and a secret listening system, and then you find out, however, when some Snowdenpa goes there, there's a place in Moscow, that someone else is doing it, and that's very abundant, and that's where we often complain that we have all these secret services here. So each state has certain interests and is obliged to protect them, especially now. Why is the new law very important, and why should we need it? It's precisely because we have various sophisticated aspects of the attack, namely endangering the security of the state itself and its citizens. For example, we have a big problem with this so-called economic security. If our agency, or service at the time, had worked better and better, there might not have been any of these privatisations that had completely economically destroyed the country. It might not even occur if the state were somehow made economically dependent, literally dependent on certain structures from some other countries, and we might not have these economic problems today, if, for example, the service had acted as it might have been. The problems with economic security, I have that remark when it's listed here. It's, like, wrong for me that there's no left to measure for six months, so it's been looking for six months again. Still, that continuity is important. We have three months here, then three times three. You know, you have highly organized spy agencies today, or whatever you want to call it, that are economically undermining your country. It will be difficult for you to collect all the data that they are doing in three months, and the court may tell you that you can't follow it now and do it, and you have to stop your work. Of course, then we experience a situation where, for example, this country's economic security is at risk. And we have a situation here, we've heard recently about this Cosmic, that he was actually a blanket, he was guarding a grandchild, he was walking around the end, he was a nice man, he was leading a family life, and now we find out, after all, that it was a serious drug dealer, that he had a serious network of who knows what, criminally, whatever you want. Imagine the situation now, the service's been following him for three months, but then the court estimates it's a nice blanket, let's not do that, let's let him go and after three months you end up doing that. So, I'm afraid it's not good that this is done in this way. Continuity is needed, and I can't collect adequate data in three months. It takes, of course, one continuity. I think it was supposed to stay for six months, then ask for another six months. Also, Article 14 says - when deciding and determining and the duration of the specific measures, it will be particularly appreciated whether the same result could be achieved in a way that less limits citizens' rights in terms of the need for the purpose of the restriction to be met in a democratic society. This in itself, unless someone calls Kennedy, it doesn't mean anything. I am now interested, since the court will assess this, how will the court assess what extent it is necessary to satisfy the purpose of the restriction in a democratic society? What does that phrase essentially mean, and why did something like this have to be introduced into the law, unless it was a very compromise with the Guardian of Citizens, so he insists on such sentences? Then it had to be far more meaningful, because this doesn't make any sense. I don't see how it's going to be able to assess what it's necessary for the purpose of limiting to be satisfied in a democratic society. So, I understand the needs of control, civil control, the needs of everything, but we can't because someone insists on some amazing things, and apparently has some power here and is particularly influencing it through various independent bodies, to jeopardize the work of a security-informative agency or any other service itself. I would like you to consider this, and of course in the voting day, we will support this law for the simple reason why we do not see another way that the BIA itself can function, given the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3475	I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The word has been given by the People's MP Mr. Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3476	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will only briefly express my hope that these amendments and additions to this law will improve, that improving the provisions of the law will improve and the work of the Security and Information Agency on the ground and, of course, in that direction would probably mean that there are fewer violations of human rights in these procedures when intimacy and privacy are threatened. Of course, I'd like to mention the current situation that differs significantly from some practice we had in the former state. Back in the tenth, 15 years an elegant security-information agency has freed members of the minority, a bar in our space. It used to be a different practice. I know from some discussions on this subject that there are doubts about minorities, and when it comes to confidentiality, how confidentially they can do this specific job of special importance to the state. And the minority had this feeling when they were working for these agencies whose eyes would be viewed in front of their community, but the state is a state and it must take care in all segments of the integration and inclusion of all citizens, including all minority members. It's strange, in Presevo, not only Albanian, we don't have any locals, everyone's on the side of people who work at the Security Information Agency. I'm not an expert in this area, but I'm just asking how can this job be done properly? There are mistakes in the field. Just to remind you, in December 2008, half of Presheva was then blocked by the use of the gendarmes to arrest members of the so-called. "Gjilan groups", which were released after five years of trial and detention because they were neither guilty nor debtors. The question is, what was the assessment of the Security Information Agency when only one gas and hunting gun with permission was found during the arrests in these houses and in the search, and only one of the wedding's weapons of gas and hunting rifles with permission were hired, and the big, bulky powers of the gendarmes were hired? I say, at least six hours, half of Preshev was blocked. The same situation you had two days before the previous elections in Bujanovac. Also because of these poor estimates, there was a massive use of no use. The point of what I'm trying to say is that these changes should probably also affect the quality of work, to accomplish what is the interest of the state, not to endanger the human rights of any citizen. But in order for the work to be better quality, it is likely that some changes must be made. Minority members are an equal part of this society and they must be included in all areas of state functioning. That is why I want this law to be both these amendments and the amendments to the law an incentive for better quality work that is in the spirit of European values. Let's hope that the amendments and amendments will improve the law and that in the next period we will have better law and better working conditions in this sensitive area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3477	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3478	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, Mr Panic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a draft law on amendments to the BIA Act on the agenda. I would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction that this bill, in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner, regulates specific measures that deviate from the non-violence of secret letters and other means of disclosure unlike the existing law. I think it's celery and good that the human rights that are necessary for the security of the country or for the conduct of the criminal procedure are prescribed, so they are prescribed what are the specific measures. The Constitution itself in its Article 20 says – that human rights are allowed only because of the purpose that the Constitution itself prescribes or because of the permission of the Constitution itself. Also, I would like to stress that it is good that the measure of covert surveillance and the recording of the site of the subject's premises includes devices for the automatic processing of data and equipment to which electronic records are stored or may be preserved. Until now, this measure has been somehow derivatives, carried out from the very permission of covert surveillance and recording of communications, but in this bill, it is also decidently prescribed. I believe this bill meets two aspects. A aspect of proportionality and subsidiarity, as it relates, I would not say, to a particular circle of face but to a specific circle of face which I think is in accordance with the Constitution and that, as I said on the one hand, it can satisfy what the Constitution prescribes and, on the other hand, provide the necessary documentation for the conduct of criminal proceedings or for the protection of the country's security. Also, I would like to point out that the Bill's proposal rejected what was set out in the Bill's Draft, that measures can be set for constitutional regulation, in fact, for the protection of constitutional regulation. The protection of constitutional arrangements is not provided for by the Constitution itself, but is foreseen that special measures can be determined because, as I have said several times, security, or criminal proceedings, I consider it to be legal, but we have before us a constitution that does not prescribe it, and I think it is a good thing that the bill does not stand by what was in the bill of law, because it could later also lead to proceedings before the Constitutional Court. In fact, this bill raises one broader question, and that is the question of all those measures that the Constitution itself prescribes. I believe that the Constitution has not consistently prescribed a certain incursion of human rights, especially if we are talking about the inviolability of the apartment. If we look at article 40. The constitution says in its first attitude that the apartment is invulnerable. In his second attitude, he says that no one, without a written decision, can enter an apartment or other rooms against the will of their holder, nor search them. In view of the third, and now I don't read until the end, he says – that it is only possible to deprive the freedom of the perpetrator of a crime or to eliminate direct and serious dangers for people and property. So, if this member of the Constitution is consistently looked at, then it can be concluded that only if it is necessary to deprive the classrooms of a criminal offence or to remove the immediate danger. I know that in practice it's not possible and that it shouldn't stay on it. However, I was also a witness that when the current Code of Criminal Procedure was written, it introduced the biggest dilemmas among people who participated in the Working Group for the Making of the Codes of Criminal Procedure and These Things, meaning, this member, but many others need to be a guideline to future amendments to the Constitution that no longer consistent and confused regulates in human rights. Now I would go back to the bill and I would say that in this bill, unlike the existing one, there is two degrees which I think is good. I think it's a good thing now that the president of the High Court in Belgrade decides on the measure in the first degree. Recently, a few years ago, the jurisdiction of the High Court in Belgrade was expanded, i.e. the special department and acts of terrorism, so largely when we talk about the country's security, it is in the eyes of those who propose these measures, that they are in particular protecting the country from terrorism. As I said, I think it is good that the President of the Supreme Court in Belgrade, or the person he determines and what there is two degrees. So far, there has been no matter who thinks it's damaged whether the director of BIA or anyone else. We've proposed some amendments. We believe that extending the specific measures if it is not possible to do so immediately on the basis of the Court's decision, but rather the Director of the Agency's decision should be shorter. So, for theirs, I'd say, a conquistador. I know it is the same solution as in the Code of Criminal Procedure, but I'm simply suggesting that we might consider adopting this amendment. As I said, in one comprehensive way, it regulates the determination of special measures. I believe he will contribute to fully respecting the Constitutional Court's decision to repeal certain provisions of the BIA Law. Of course, I must finally point out the fact that the law could have been found before the MPs. I think there's plenty of time for that. This is how we find ourselves in a teat and literally in a situation where there's a hole in the law. I also want to point out the fact that human rights are not a static category, they are developing and they need to be paid attention daily to their protection. Sometimes and unconsciously there is a violation of human rights. I don't want to put the system in everything, the principle of malice so that it should continue to develop, continue to pay attention to the provisions that can contribute to their protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3479	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic. The word has a folk letter from Biljana Ilic Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3480	The respected chairman, Mr. Minister, respected colleagues, respected citizens of the Serbian state, the issue of monitoring electronic and other forms of citizen communication is one of the most prominent in any society that seeks to regulate itself as democratic. There we only have perhaps seemingly, and perhaps essentially two mutually exclusive goals. The first goal is to ensure that the state as an institution and as a personification of society's arrangements in the obligation to ensure security for all its citizens and other conditions for a smooth life. Another obligation is the boundness of privacy where the right to secrecy and inviolability of written, oral, electronic, interpersonal and any other communication is, in fact, an alpha and an omega of anything that connots the rule of law, the rule of law and the postulate of democracy. How to resolve this galamatias, it is a million-dollar issue, not only for us but for societies that have a more age-old and stable functioning of democratic institutions. This makes it as legal as the one we are considering today always a reason to launch a wider debate that exceeds the walls of a building in which even the highest state body of the national parliament works, and that is how it has to be. We have a mission here today. First, to determine whether the proposed members of the amendments and the addition of laws giving extended powers to security structures in accordance with the Constitution, as the Supreme Regulator, which examines all other systemic solutions. Secondly, to make sure that what we call the parliamentary control of security intelligence structures works, i.e. not to allow the creation of conditions for these institutions to be removed from the state and thus from society, and that, through a monopoly on privileged information, they do not start using them for purposes other than those prescribed by the legislator. All other debates should be moved to the second stage, to the highest level of expertise, but to the highest public who has the right to know and the freedom to speak his opinion openly without fear of any repression, wherever she threatens to come from. In this open public parliament, all citizens, whether they belong to different profiles of the professional public, whether they are at some state public or social function or role, whether it is an ordinary man, have the right and the responsibility to debate freely and from all aspects. These aspects are very diverse. On the one hand, we have an unevenly installed threshold of sensitivity when it comes to any control and endangering the inviolability of the right to privacy. On the other hand, we have demands that society be cleansed of all the criminal and corrupt elements of the structure. Among these are the institutions of democratic provinces that, by vocality and formally and essentially, must be independent, impartial and objective. We can call them whatever we want. Some call them the Ministry of Forces, or the Ministry of Fear or Monopoly, which stems from everything we call a state, only they have to fulfill their constitutional and legal role, which consists of the already mentioned obligation to provide citizens with security and security, but also the right to presuppose innocence with the obligation to present evidence valid for judicial matters. We live in an information society, in a global communication village that opens up unprecedented possibilities every day to yet another unimaginable communication on a planetary level. With numerous advantages, there are no doubt obvious dangers and temptations that are very often difficult to resist. In Great Britain, the official cradle of parliamentaryism, as a bomb, echoed the news that nearly a decade and a half of social networks are being monitored and that this is not contrary to the current legislation. The lives of U.S. citizens changed dramatically after 9/11 because of the continuing and growing fear of international terrorism, not to mention Snouden and everything he has revealed to the world public so far, pointing to the real address of the all-seeing eye of the "great brother". In all this time, we are convulsing in an inadmissible criminalised society where certain individuals of suspicious pasts and even more doubtful futures dare to think they are stronger than the state that has to, if not to serve them that bar to hide them while they're entangled by the net they're getting involved in and enslaving our society. The only one who has the right, but more importantly the obligation to deal with such anomalies is the sanctioning state, and part of that country is. I'm the top of it. We've been elected from the citizens and authorized representatives. So I believe that neither today nor in the future when we discuss or decide something like this, we will not forget for one moment or have a dilemma about what is more, more important and sacred. That is why my party and I will personally support these changes and additions, with a renewed appeal for the permanent parliamentary supervision of the institutions in charge of security, but also the democratic functioning of our society and state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3481	The word has been given by MP Borislav Stefanovic, as the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3482	Thank you, sir, for pointing that out. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, we have one already seen situation which, by emergency procedure, the Government is passing laws in the Serbian Parliament, and unfortunately, the representatives of the majority in the Assembly are dealing with the definition and school classes that explain to us here what services are and what they serve. I think it is unnecessary to lose both the resources and the time and the energy and everything else, when it is clear that the amendment of the BIA Act is made primarily because of a clear decision of the Constitutional Court and in that sense Articles 13, 14 and 15 have been changed and, as my colleagues have already mentioned, everything that is problematic in that regard, I have to underline a few things. First, if only for precision of measures, this law would get absolute support in the Serbian Parliament and there would be no problems. However, we have immediately seen several very problematic things that only further determine our belief that a new BIA law is needed within the shortest possible time, which I believe the minister agrees, and that the majority MPs who spoke of it today agree. I think that the disputed members should have been changed and the supplement that fellow Sutanovac mentioned was left, except in the apartment, because we believe that something that determines the constitutional principle and constitutional right of citizens, and has never been repeated, even in the Security Act, and especially in the BIA Act. I think it's unclear, inaccurate and insufficiently explained, which is why now a request is submitted by the director of the BIA to the President of the High Court, not the Supreme Court of Cassation. I know it's about things that are related to organized crime, and I think it's perfectly clear, even to someone who's not a lawyer, who's a layman, what is the Supreme Casation Court and is a principle of law inherited from the past system. I believe that as the highest judicial authority in the state, after the Constitutional Court, it gives certain assurance to the citizens that some things will be done with a higher degree of seriousness. I'm asking you to tell us why, once again, to repeat and specify, we're going to the High Court, to the President of the High Court, not the Supreme Cassation? Which is why it was necessary, as we have already asked, to introduce a complaint from the Director of BIA, which is why BIA becomes a party to the proceedings, which, on the one hand, delays the proceedings and, on the other hand, leads to something, I do not know whether it is said here that a state body is entering a judicial dispute, with judicial authority and its sovereign decision, and we believe that the judicial authority is absolutely above the other decisions made in this country. We don't understand this institute. If I understand correctly, even in the BIA, it didn't come across any support or understanding. We believe that this will further make it difficult for them to act and delay them. I think we have another problematic provision that was also discussed, and that's the procedure being conducted in case the BIA comes up with some information, so it delivers it to the prosecution. Given that we have introduced a prosecutor's investigation through the laws, I think that's fine, but here this pre-criminal aspect is lost and the BIA remains the sovereign right to bring that information on its own, past the MUP, past the investigations, but directly to the prosecution, which in some way creates inequality in the legal order and an unequal way of treating criminal acts. We don't live in perfect society, there can be abuse of this institute. I'm asking that question sign, with a big problem on us, from these two days to the BIA and two days to the court, which is four days to the void. That's where we agreed, because there were various examples and from the retirement solution and everything else, and I think it's one too long period of time to leave the possibility of possible abuses. Except that it is necessary to pass a new BIA law, there should be better control mechanisms than there are now. It is absolutely necessary and that I agree with the majority colleague who talked about it, create a special service that would deal with listening measures and that would be removed from Serbia's current security services. That idea is, now there's a lot of fathers, and I think it's Mr. Sutanovac's idea, but anyway, it's a good thing, as I think UBPOK must be removed from the MUP and put it in the Department of Justice. These are the things that are essential reforms and that's what we urge the government to do as soon as possible. Until this is done, both control and implementation will be difficult and everything that happens in Serbia through the tabloids and through everything we watch every day will continue in this country. Let me also add, that I resented the previous government and the one that was the Democratic Party, that Serbia is probably the only state in Europe that has no intelligence service and that the BIA has a intelligence segment, but that this segment because of its heritage and because of, let me say, insufficient personnel equipment and, if you will, technically and everything else has always been kind of stuck in the water. Any professional will confirm that. It is not normal for Serbia to have no intelligence. This service must be formed and should be independent if we have three security forces to have a intelligence service, which in my opinion should be even outside the Foreign Ministry as it was, in my opinion, completely wrong, unnecessary, harmful suspension of the intelligence segment at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was done during Mr. Vuk Draskovic's ministry. I think it's largely one medium-sized state that took away Serbia, I think, the normal instruments it had in her hands. Now what? Now BIA operatives who have spent their entire lives working counter-intelligence, who have spent their entire career in security, now need these people to make intelligence. Very hard. I'm not saying there aren't any people like that. I even think that many of them are very professionally doing that part of the job, but it's a strong pressure on that service. I think it generally goes in line with our intentions that security services should be left to professionals and that politics should not be involved. It is up to us to create conditions for them to work independently and to do their job unburdened by political differences, abuses they have made or service in service of certain political interests which has always been in Serbia. Of course, you add to that a proverbial Serbian fascination with security services that unfortunately does not extend just in the dramatic texts and in our theatres, but extends into political life and also in this Assembly as we are here today and then we have an endemic problem of our country where every problem that arises in society is easily explained – that's what the service did, that's what the service allowed, that's what the service listens to, which is what we show maturity as a society. You need to free yourself of fascination with security services and let them do their job professionally. I think it is very harmful, bad, even scandalous that a majority MP said, yes, I quote, "It is necessary to put the right to security before citizens' personal rights." That's a big problem, you can't say that. Personal rights of citizens, rights and freedoms can never be placed above any other rights, except when an emergency is introduced, and it is known when it is introduced and under any difficult circumstances, and even then, human and civil rights must not be violated. It's sad because there are people among you who haven't learned a lesson yet that the Prime Minister is just trying to teach you. I think in any case this law of inadequacy. We're going through the amendment process looking for an opportunity to fix it. We believe and are glad that there is an understanding that a new BIA law is needed. We ask that these things be placed in the text of the law, especially about the vulnerability of the apartment. We're asking to stop the practice of abuse of service. We're looking as DS to finally reveal who he is, when and why he was listening to the president of the state, and how do we hear the prime minister? That's dangerous stuff. If the prime minister says something in a private conversation, and this is then turned into a certain activity that is absolutely at the expense of him and his family and the state, whoever is the prime minister of this country, it must not remain unexplored now. We also find that the country's huge problem, the big problem is that we don't have a security coordinator. Mr. Wolf has retired from that place. The institute was introduced for co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Maybe he's outdone himself, maybe he doesn't need to anymore, maybe we should let our services do their job, but then we told you to do it for personal reasons to strengthen the functioning and role of Mr. Vukic. Now that he's retired from head office as security coordinator, what's going on now? What's going on now and who's coordinating?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3483	Please, Mr. Stefanovic, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3484	Yeah. So, the topic is that, respected citizens and MPs, at this point Serbian citizens can listen to three or four services and of those three -- four services there is no coordination between who listens and why. They appear to the judicial authority, but not to the executive authority in the same way in full coordination, especially now that Mr. Vukic has resigned, it is a huge problem. There are also unofficial ways of listening, which are done without the court's approval with the aim of likely accomplishing some political benefits, which is, of course, out of the law, and you know it. If any citizen can buy surveillance equipment, then you understand what that means specifically. It is a terrible problem and it is a flagrant violation of the rights of citizens of Serbia, not only of state officials, but of every citizen. So at this point we hear when we're being replaced by generals at the MUP that those about each other or government officials have some information that they've come to listen to. How is that possible? Does BIA know or doesn't know? Was the BIA listening or not? It's not. So they're in the M.O.P. playing. These are serious problems. So once again I underline, it is necessary to remove this service, put under rigorous control both the Assembly and the Government and to know what the court is doing, and the court must be above it absolutely. We consider it a soul, we're a little vague about this descent, I'd like to ask you one more time to explain. Secondly, this thing must no longer be out of control, otherwise what happens today is that citizens are delivering information about each other to the tabloids, listening to political opponents and using it for blackmail. That, gentlemen of the BIA, is not what you were made for. That's not what your function is, and that's not what your job is, and I know that there are honest and honest people who are ashamed of such actions in the BIA and other security services. Don't let the politicians, whoever they are, throw away your professions to get you to be a cannon in the hands of those who want to gain political benefit. At this point, in that segment we have an alarming situation in Serbia, a terrible situation. We have a detachment of a full police top, we have a situation where the tabloids tell us what's going on. Criminals are being informed that they can escape the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3485	Please come back, Mr. Stefanovic, on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3486	I'll be right back. So the topic is very interesting when it comes to BIA, what is achieved by this law, when it's said -- what have these changes brought so far; then let me go back to the topic. That's unclear to me. How is it not a theme when I talk about BIA and other security services all the time and what does this law actually help them to be independent to the end, is it clear to anyone here? I don't think it's good, it's not right for us to listen to definitions and references, to be explained here as students in class for what security services are for. I understand someone has to say something, but you don't have to say anything. Guys, the problem is clear. We're changing three members. The Constitutional Court said -- okay, you've figured out what the measures are, every honor, but why these other changes, what they're doing, why BIA goes into litigation, isn't litigious literally but into litigation with their country? Where does that go and why is it done? Our goal, of course, is for BIA to be an independent body that strictly professionally does its job without the influence of politics. Unfortunately, what we're looking at these days in Serbia is exactly the opposite image.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3487	I thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3488	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Some things spoken by the previous speaker really go with democracy. First, a sentence that teaches and disciplines the other MPs and says what is needed and what is not to be said. I think we're all reasonable people here, that we don't need a teacher, that we're all behind our words behind the policy we're conducting and that no one's going to tell us what we're going to do and at what point we're talking. On the other hand, I think the National Assembly is a place where we debate, a place where we can't keep our mouths shut. What does it mean -- some MP from the ruling majority said that, that and that, and now you're all horrible and disgusting? What MP? Name and last name. What is most important is that the effects of the Biroom's chairmanship of the Security Service Co-ordination Office by Aleksandr Vucic, that the SNS is proud of that period, proud of everything Mr. Vukic has done to the chairman of the Biroom and not alone which is proud of the SNS, is also proud of the state because we have placed the point of 24 controversial privatisations, because Mr. Saric has been arrested and brought to justice, because they are placed in the place where they should be, and this is on the defendant's benches of a gang that sells daily narcotics to children on the streets of Serbia. We are proud of everything Mr. Vukic has done in the past two years as chairman of the Biroom. Is it someone who says it's a political reckoning, dealing with those who've been smuggling a few kilos or tons of narcotics, a political shootout, and that identifies it with those who are now on the defendant's benches?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3489	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word came through the line, by direct mention of the name, MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the city: Sin. Mr. Stefanovic, you mentioned Mr. Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3490	Yeah, I recognized myself. That's not what my colleague Stefanovic said, but I don't want him to stay so that someone puts in my mouth what I didn't say. Mr. Stefanovic, you said we don't need someone to lecture us on what services are and what they serve. I can see from your presentation that you really need a good lecture on services, what they serve and what services they are. Let me answer your questions in a row in these two minutes, and I'm ready to take a break a little closer to clarify that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3491	Mr. Stojanovic, just speak to me as chairman, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3492	Why do they give the approval to senior courts and not to the Casation Court? Just, if you know the organization of BIA, if you know the methodology of work, then imagine in Bujanovac an operative who attaches that measure, then comes to the head of BIA, so that BIA chief has to do this, and if it's, say, terrorism or urgency of action, and you know we have one Supreme Casation Court, then you can think of it as a behavior of BIA in that case? You have more vessels almost at all BIA centers. Why does he have the right to propose an extension of the BIA director, why does he have a complaint about the decision to reject the measure? It is simply because, in its perdogram for a decision on the application of special measures, the Director of BIA cannot have the full context of one operational action, one operational processing, one case to state, and the competent court may refuse to apply those measures, and then he is obliged, because he is responsible for the security of the country. He's more responsible than the President of the High Court, or if you want the Cassation Court. Officially responsible. He must warn him through the appeal of possible adverse consequences if the measure is approved.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3493	Thank you, Mr. Stojanovic. Right on line, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3494	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Okay, you can give us a lecture. I think our questions are very substantial and clear. You shouldn't try to represent this assembly as the esnafian community of security. It serves to try to make something out of the bill, which has been delivered to us, when you are not already able to do it. If you've done 24 controversial privatisations, I'm really shocked by what you said. Dear citizens, 24 controversial privatisations are over. Has anyone in Serbia heard that one has been resolved to this day? What did you do with the ATP "Vojvodina", for example? Well, you have to ask the President of the Assembly for example. It doesn't occur to you. Five SNS Presidencies cannot be replaced by the Director of Railways. What are you talking about? Narcotics? Of course. Narcotics and drug dealers should be rooted out of Serbian society if possible. It is not a political matter, but your party president, the prime minister of Serbia, at a press conference, criticised the impact of the fight against drug dealers so far. You've seen it. You're not listening to your president again. You're saying that Saric is the result of a good work by the BIA? I agree. Then why are you changing now? Then what's wrong? Then why don't you leave things the way they are if everything's okay? Why doesn't Mr. Wolf continue to be the head of coordination if everything is great, but the man goes away. Well, we changed the laws so he could be elected to that place. People, that's when we told you - you can't have it all in the hands of one man. Here, he figured it out, and you still don't understand. Next time you start talking about these things, think about what your president said first, and then raise your voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3495	The Minister of Justice, Mr Nikola Selakovic, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3496	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, more things have been said, and more questions have been asked, and I will really take the opportunity to respond to that, and also to some qualifications that, when it comes to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the policy that we are leading, absolutely do not stand. I have tried to be present throughout this session, and I have not heard anyone here dispute the words of the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic when it comes to the issue of the work of the security authorities, internal security authorities and the fight against drug trafficking and intoxicating substances. Just remember that in the police actions "Thunder 1" and "Thunder 2" we went out with claims that actions had been broken and that someone in the drug dealers' security system reported when police action would be carried out. This all points to an extremely large and difficult problem in Serbia's security system, a problem that has been laid to rest for years, a problem that is not a fruit of unhappiness or poor work of a government, a problem of one, I would say, a completely outdated concept of the state's security system, something that may have been characteristic of the past, when people in long leather coats went around scaring people, extorting statements, and I don't know what they were doing. Of course, I'm metaphorically expressing myself. I believe that comes to an understanding. Do we have any serious problems in our security system? We do, and it's no secret. You said we didn't have intelligence. That's not true, we have one, a military. I can agree with what's been said when it comes to the absence of more intelligence services within the former foreign ministry. It must have taken a wider political agreement to do so. Someone provided it, it wasn't one man, and unfortunately it doesn't exist anymore. It is much more problematic how this is done and what has been done with people who have worked in the service or in the ministry. There's no conflict with the judiciary. Let's get along. The Supreme Cassation Court is the highest court in this country. However, the Supreme Court of Cassation is not judging the court. He is a court who decides in exceptional situations on emergency legal medicines and has one very, very important jurisdiction, which is the jurisdiction of equating judicial practice. Probably under the influence that the law was passed 12 years ago, if I'm not mistaken, when there was no Supreme Cassation Court, it was becoming the Supreme Court of Serbia, when there was a completely different organisation of the judiciary and the prosecution in our country, it remained. You know how, even a court is not infallible. If you have one Supreme Court in Serbia that has special jurisdiction for the territory of the entire state, and it is not Serbia, you have a similar situation in Austria, and this court has a special section of the Court of Appeal that examines its decisions. I don't see why it could harm anyone here to verify that a particular judge's decision, so the judges of an individual, and we'll agree that the larger one is made up of three judges, and that judge directly of a higher court, should by the nature of things more experienced, that this is stronger than that individual judge, whatever individual he is. It's possible that we're logically discussing what three judges are like, like this one judge, etc., but then we're going into some details of what it would be like to be. The system is designed on these bases. I think this is a good solution. It may seem to be unnecessary. I think it's a good solution, because a double-degree judicial check provides a lot more, and protection of the interests of the security of the state, but also protection of the interests of one's human rights. There's no intention of a conflict with the judiciary, either. If you want to finally, even when the case is completed before the Supreme Cassation Court, you have a constitutional appeal institute before the Constitutional Court, even when you wear it out, the citizen has the right to address the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which is not explicitly provided for by our constitutional provisions, that it is listed as such on the basis of a confirmed international contract. That's it. I don't think we've had any problems here since we moved from one-degree to a two-degree court check, and we shouldn't have any problems. Something that I think was really correct to say besides everything, take a look at the provisions that are changing or supplementing and look at the level of seriousness and precision of the provisions that are being changed and the provisions that are being proposed. That's a generational difference. That's the difference between two completely different political systems. Someone said in the debate that this work BIA doesn't seem more transparent. I think it also makes it more transparent, much more precise, which is extremely important. A question has been asked several times – who is at the head of the Bureau? Of course, the Bureau now formally has no secretary on its forehead who performs that duty and it is no secret. You have pointed to many serious problems that have been printed and publicly informed lately and how much they talk. I know these things are being conducted by the authorities and without tabulating anything, but given the sensitivity of the whole story, I think we should wait for the results of these organs to work. Someone said, I don't want to bid on who, I have it written down, but I think it's important. He quoted my colleague, Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, as saying – what does some working group have to check the origin of the property? Wait, you have a financial investigation unit. In the case of extremely complex cases, which are of interest to national security, that unit operates within the framework of the MUP. Of course, that should include the tax administration. Of course, what we have provided for the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, which is the unification of different state bodies that will give maximum support to the main criminal prosecution body to do its job as best as possible, because you will allow me only in two, three sentences to say something that is very important, what is happening to us, and these are the experiences of other countries, not just our countries. We're chronically suffering from a lack of a broader expertise in a public prosecutor's organization. You have a situation, and that's why we're trying to raise ourselves to the highest level and introduce financial forensics within the so-called. A special prosecutor's office to begin with, because we are in a position for the prosecutor to get evidence, to come up with an indictment, that he must be in need of much more professional support in that than is available, the indictment takes effect, a court case, which seems to be going on indefinitely. Judges are trying to squeeze out dry dreno, and then you have a situation where the defendant, who sits on the opposite side, who in some strange way or suspiciously acquired an indescribable fortune, comes into a situation where he can invest in his defense in an incomparable amount of funds than the state could have invested in the preparation, or investigation that led against him. So that I didn't jump out of the picture, I think it's all about how this works. I'll go back to the Bureau you mentioned. I am convinced of what my colleague Babic said, that the Bureau for the Co-ordination of the Security Service is a good institute, which was introduced by law that was passed at the time of the government in which the DS was. I don't have anything to say. That's a good thing. I must tell you that there are countries that have been working towards Serbia to introduce such a way of coordinating the work of the Security Service and their legal systems. You said it was formed in one way, but time also showed good behavior of the biroom in the previous period that it and how it can contribute to better work of the security service, but also of the pursuit and, hopefully, by giving one contribution to sanctioning what can threaten both the state's external and internal security. Once again, when you asked the question – why not the Supreme Cassation Court, why the Supreme Court in Belgrade? Because, you yourself said nicely within that court, there is a special department where there are judges who specialize in those crimes where, when there are some basic doubts, these measures are just being applied, so the judges that are most professional for it, as in the Court of Appeal, there are judges who decide to do so in the second degree. I think this is good. I think this is a much better way to do that job. My colleague Batić spoke, quoting the first member about changes and additions, please read the member who changed, as he said it was written – legally very clumsy, poor, inaccurate. Now you have unquestionably preciseness. There are things about which, I think, to a good extent, a large number of MPs who spoke of it were right, the question is really asked, and you have constructively pointed out why it says in the explanation "right now", and the text of the law says: "48 hours". I am convinced that in the discussion of details we will come up with the best solution and that we will correct the bill in those parts where we establish a general agreement with these things. I am convinced that the President of the Republic will appoint a new head of the Bureau, although I find it difficult to find out who would do this better than the current Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic did. This job was once done by Mr. Rakic, God rest his soul, and he did it quality and good. And you know that in a country with fragile institutions, the most common success of the work of an institution depends on the individual who is in charge of it and the people who make it. Maybe that's one of the reasons why we still don't have that man? Because such a person is extremely difficult to find, which you will be fully aware will work properly. Many of the things that have been happening to me lately personally, as a resolute minister and part of this government, suggest that a basis is being created to radically improve the security of the Republic of Serbia. You've talked about a lot of these things and I don't want to talk about it, just so I don't jeopardize something that's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3497	I thank you, Mr. Selakovic. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic, a replica, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3498	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for the exhaustive answers to all the questions asked. I admit that I'm not a lawyer by profession, but I really try every day to find out the more things I learn, the more things I learn. But what's bad is when someone who's a lawyer breaks basic postulate rights. I was very precise when I was talking about 24 controversial privatisations. The investigation ended in 24 controversial privatisations. There's a big difference between a closed investigation, criminal charges filed, open trial, trial, indictments, convictions, justice. It's a procedure. But not for that first step that the late Verica Barac, which the EU also pointed to, which is that the investigation into the 24 privatisations in question was completed, you did not have the strength, will, knowledge, political will, anything, to at least end it. 24 investigations into 24 controversial privatisations have been completed. I don't want to get involved in justice. I have no right. As I call upon all of you not to interfere in the judiciary, because you have no right, nor that you should say who is guilty, nor who is not guilty. For this determination and the final court must give the judiciary and the judiciary which is an independent branch of government. The question has been asked again and the aim, this time towards Parliament's president, is to interfere again in some procedures. I'm going to ask one question - by 2012 any of us that he was guilty, that he was involved in something bad in our society, why didn't you prove it? Why didn't you judge? Why didn't you punish us?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3499	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3500	Didn't you have all the power in these hands then? Didn't you have every opportunity in these hands? What does that mean after two, three years? You either didn't have the strength and the brains to do something like that, or things like that didn't happen. And I believe this is a different matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3501	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dragan Sutanovac. You've got three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3502	I'll use the time and time left of the parliamentary group, which is about seven, eight minutes away. I have the right to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3503	You're only right for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3504	That's not true. There are about four, five minutes left after Bork. I'm authorized and I can use it all the time. Come on, please, take over this Rules of Procedure, so we don't fight here every day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3505	I'm telling you you have three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3506	It's not three minutes, I've got time for a parliamentary group. (Borko Stefanovic, from the post: He has an authorised representative right to both. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3507	You have no right. You cannot end up using the right of the parliamentary group. Please, you have three minutes from now. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: When it comes to the end, then you cannot go back.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3508	I don't know why you keep trying to make it impossible for the opposition to express its views here, in one way that is completely inappropriate? Do we have six minutes, or three minutes, which makes you so afraid? You're obviously afraid to hear a spoken word. Here, let the lady say - how many minutes do we have?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3509	Mr. Sutanovac, you have article 96. The Rules of Procedure, which says: “The President, or representative of the parliamentary group, who has the right to speak for 20 minutes, can split that time into two parts. ” You spoke in the first part for 17 minutes, you've got three minutes left, and please, you can't take advantage of the right of the parliamentary group at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3510	Where does that say?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3511	And where does it say you can?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3512	Tell me where it says it can't. It always could.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3513	Mr. Sutanovac, please, you have three minutes. If you want to use it, use it, and if not, I'll move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3514	I'm asking you to give me my time back to zero.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3515	You have three minutes from now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3516	It can't be like that. I've been having a dialogue with you all along. Give me back my time and I'll talk for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3517	I'm telling you, technically, I can't get the time back from here. It's a minute and 52, you have three minutes after this. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3518	So it's till 6:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3519	I'll turn you off, then re-apply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3520	Dear counterpart Babic said, quote, I wrote: "The 24 privatization points have been put in place." He didn't mention the investigation. This only explains how the phenomenal work of Serbia's MUP has been cleared of the investigation of 24 privatisations, and then whoever reads the newspaper can read that all the people who worked on these privatisations have been replaced. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Who? ) So, these phenomenal people who have done these investigations have been replaced, all of them, by the leader of the group Usic, Roæko Milovic. I'd like to ask you not to throw it at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3521	Please, let the speaker finish the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3522	Mr. Minister, we disagree that you have given an explanation, that is, to be brought down to a higher court. It's our right, and you have your right. If so, if you introduce two degrees, then you ask the question – why is there no two degrees in this area where special measures are introduced when a person uses another telecommunications agent? Why there's no double-degree, but that court decides it can't, and then the materials are destroyed. Which the director of BIA can't complain about and ask to be allowed to do, too. You're not consistent with your proposal. Do you agree? I see you're nodding your head? (Nikola Selakovic, from the scene: You did not listen to me very carefully. That's right. I listened very carefully. On the other hand, you didn't answer the question why the person who came into touch, let's say, with a face that's on the scales, came because he doesn't know who the criminal he's never heard of, recently told you there's a criminal he hasn't heard of, and nobody's ever said a word, why would a person know who it's about? If it came into contact and fell under measures and these measures lasted four days, why wouldn't that face be notified that it was under measures? Why wouldn't that person get information from the court so he could attend the destruction of materials that don't serve as court evidence, and where is it mentioned? It's basic human rights, not politicizing. I think so, too, and we think it's necessary for these people to see that they were, so they don't make the same mistake again. We have a situation where a senior state official here says he doesn't know he's been in contact with a criminal and I trust him. But then the question arises – why did the services not inform him, who were paid to do so? After all, if a situation like this happens, then the court would inform him and tell him – you have a situation where you have entered a network of circumstances, you are not guilty, but it must be made known to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3523	Thank you. Time. Three minutes and 12 seconds. I've exceeded 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3524	The way you do it...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3525	Thank you. As I was informed, no one has reported to use the law of Article 96. Rules of Procedure, I give the word to Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3526	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I won't mind my predecessor, because he obviously wasn't in the O.R. when I was talking about the difference between the measure and the extension of the measure. It does not measure the number of phones, nor the address of e-mails, but rather the person who is safety-interesting in a particular matter. That's the key difference. You're not hurting the human rights of the phone number, you're hurting the man. If the court once decided that it was a person of security for a certain matter, there is no allowed way for a service that should not be applied to reveal the facts that justify reasonable doubt that someone has committed a crime. I don't know why you guys got so caught up in it. I explained very closely why it was such a thing. We can argue over that, not to argue, but to agree that maybe it's an unfavourable termology and that the director of the BIA can order. In order not to lead to confusion, because the order brings judgment, I think we should intervene with some kind of amendment to change that term. But I don't know why this would be so controversial, because we just realized that the people who work on the other side of the law are using every possible way to fool their tracks. Is it the use of different means of communication, of using other rooms compared to the rooms they otherwise use, etc. I think there's no room, as I agree, there are some things that we agree on, there are some things that we're not about, thank God. That's why we're in different political places, as I think you're quite right about those 48 hours. Why? Because when it comes to expanding the measures, it's mostly about emergency situations. Most of the time, it's about emergency situations. My colleague Batic was setting that example twice a week so you could come back from Australia and go back to Australia and not run out of 96 hours and it's a great example. You have a face that comes to Serbia only for half an hour because of some of the shops, and based on previous operational work, you expect it to do something that will be crucial to detecting a possible crime in those half hours. It does, and it does. It has to do with the expansion of the measure, it has to do with what you mentioned, among other things, in another context when it comes to the destruction of those acquired data, material, based on something that the court did not subsequently approve. I think you've opened up another question - why the authorities didn't inform anyone that he was communicating with persons who were securely sensitive. It's a security question. It is a question for those who work, as Mr Kovacevic said, who should deal with counterintelligence protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3527	All I'm asking is that you don't communicate with the minister from the bench because he doesn't have to answer. I'm sorry, Minister. I had to intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3528	In the end, I have to say something. You know what, I know a colleague named Babic, I respect him, and I respect him. If he said so - 24 privatisations were put on point, he certainly didn't think the bureau was someone who tried. A point has been placed in that domain in which it has not been placed in the previous few years. One thing has been said: all those who have conducted investigations have been removed. That's not true. That's absolutely not true. After the new CAP, the investigation is being conducted by a public prosecutor. The investigation is being conducted by a public prosecutor. If someone had been replaced, I would have asked a question - and why didn't someone finish that investigation four years ago? Why? Or are you saying that maybe the one for which the investigation isn't closed is no longer in power? Why isn't that the point of the investigation that Verica Baraq pointed out? Why? Why do we have to wait for the epilogue for some privatisations that took place almost a decade ago? One of yours is why we've changed the birth of our hundred why. I think it's important that something has ended and I think it's important that in Serbia, in a social sphere, there is finally order. I think conditions are being created in Serbia, and let me also say something that is within the scope of my jurisdiction, for the first time creating conditions serious for serious, fundamental and effective judicial reform, because without reforming the justice system there is no reform. You can bring in the best judges, you can bring in the best prosecutors, you don't have a security system to support it. They're not worth anything to you. It's something that, in Serbia, thank God, has started to work, and by adopting this law, I'm going back to the beginning, which is necessary, we've seen how bad the existing BIA law is in some things. Someone said, I mean, colleague Shormaz, why are you using non-vulnerability letters? It's a constitutional termology, a constitutional category. Why is it said: freedom of speech or freedom of assembly? It's simply some of the things that the Constitution reads and represents terms that are vastly broader than language interpretations. Once again, thank God for some things in Serbia that seemed unimaginable by yesterday began to come true, with heavy and huge obstacles, but important that there is a solution at the highest state level to carry them out until the end, and I am proud to be part of the Serbian government, which, unlike many before itself, and thanks to its Prime Minister, is the weeds, desires and courage to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-27-0.u3529	Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. As the MPs have tabled 11 amendments, I would like to inform you that the extension of the session is on June 29th, Sunday at 11.00 p.m., with a discussion of the details. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 161 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vesna Martinović, Vladimir Pavicevic, Meso Omerovic, Miroljub Stankovic, Dijana Vukomanovic, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic. In accordance with Article 87(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have decided to continue this session in a week, so beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to discuss the draft agenda law, set out in the Government's request, to hold an extraordinary session. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that I, in addition to the representative of the promoter Nikola Selakovic, invited the minister of justice to attend the session and Miroslav Panic, adviser to the director of the Security and Information Agency. We continue to work on the draft law amending and supplementing the Security and Information Agency Act. You have received amendments submitted by Parliamentarians Olgica Batić, Dragan Sutanovac, Zlata Đerić, Dubravka Filipovski, Snezana Malović, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Enis Imamović, Sabina Dazdarevic and Zoran Zivkovic. You have received a report from the Security Control Committee and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives pursuant to Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure, he rejected the amendment to Article 4, which was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Enis Imamovic and Sabina Dazdarevic. Pursuant to Article 4 of that Rules of Procedure, the amendments rejected may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted upon. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Security Service Control Committee have not accepted the amendment and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Security Service Control Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is proposed by Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
