ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8819	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 104 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Tuesdays and Thursdays, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, may be asked for information and explanations. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8820	Mr. Chairman, there are a lot of Serbian citizens talking to us as MPs these days. Problems are forced power outages and bills for spent electricity. What's this about? Serbia's electricity, as a very important state-owned firm, has apparently set out to collect its claims and we, as a serious party, believe that each other should be paid and there should be no privileges, no selections and no injustices. However, the way the EPS started to collect its claims is at the beginning unfair, and this is not the first time it has happened. It's an EPS strategy that lasts for years. For several thousand dinars of unpaid electricity, Serbia's citizens are threatened with power outages, lawsuits, forced collection, confiscation of things, etc. On the other hand, there are no forced collection procedures for the biggest debtors in the economy, and the economic debtors owe 1/3 more money to the EPS than the citizens of Serbia, around 12.5 billion dinars. Out of 100,000 households in Serbia, citizens' debtors, it is about 8.6 billion dinars, meaning one third less debt than the economy. If this continues, we may be in a position to keep close to half a million citizens in the dark without the biggest debtors still under the burden of forced collection, as citizens of Serbia. The problem with citizens' debt is that citizens are not being charged with electricity consumption for the last year, as citizens are obliged to pay by law, but are being charged for several years. This results in a double negative effect. First, the EPS suggests that there are greater claims than the actual claims. Secondly, citizens are shown to owe more than they really owe. If the EPS calculated electricity consumption for only the last year, many citizens would pay much easier for electricity, and could reach an agreement on the cost of electricity to wars. In the Chamber of Private Executors, they say forced payments came from debtors with a minimum debt, mainly claims of up to 30,000 dinars, and are often targeted by an EPS of only 1,000 dinar claims. Business buyers in their contracts with the EPS also have financial means to secure the contract, so they only resort to forced collection when they cannot realise the financial means of security, which is fine. On this issue several times the EPS director announced, but not Energy and Mining Minister Aleksandar Antic. I think this is the right time for the minister to get involved in solving this problem together with the EPS, not in dealing with some things that are not so important to the citizens of Serbia. That's why I have questions for Minister of Mining and Energy Alexander Antic and the head of the EPS. First of all, why is the EPS strategy, as important state-owned firms, to first be pursued by the poorest citizens of Serbia with the lowest electricity debts, to first be sued, to exclude electricity and to take away their assets first? Does the EPS have a strategy with the ministry to charge electricity consumption from the biggest debtors in the economy? Why do citizens pump up electricity bills and why do debts for many years, which are obsolete? Why does interest count on interest? Why is it that it makes it impossible for citizens to monitor real debts of electricity consumption for the last year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8821	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8822	Dear Chairman, I have a question for the Prime Minister and for the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. My question is: why have works to build the Iron Bridge in Novi Sad been suspended, as one of the key investments in this country, and whose consequences will also be felt by Railways and Serbia as a state? Namely, these works were to be completed in November 2013. It began on 10 March 2011. So far, about 27% of the projected work has been done. I was walking past that construction site today. It looks really creepy. In the pipes that should pass that bridge, the homeless have moved in, and the worker is nowhere to be seen. I ask the Prime Minister and the Minister – will the contract with the contractor break? If a new tender is launched and a new performer is selected, when will the "Jell bridge" be completed? If it were subsequently found that the breakup was unfounded, would the cost, according to Serbian citizens, of building this bridge be extremely high? They sort of pay the price of disorganization in this respect, because the bridge is not finished within the planned deadline. The second question is for both the Prime Minister and the Minister – what is happening on the bridge at Beska? There, in November 2013, Minister Antic, said, opened the bridge without ceremony, a renewed bridge. But that bridge worked, so to speak, for several months and it's closed and until today it's still closed. Because of the unquality work done. Now I must remind the Minister and current minister of a tragic statement about the opening of the bridge. It says – the works are in rehabilitation, as stated quality and fundamentally, so that the old and grounded construction of the Danube Bridge is extended to modern and high-quality materials, thus ensuring uninterrupted use without major investment in the coming decades. It was stated in a statement. It turned out not to be secured not for the next decade, but even for the next year. So that bridge was only used for a few months. I ask the Prime Minister and the Minister – who is responsible for such misrepresented work to oversee these works and who will ultimately pay for it? Another question, this time to the Prime Minister and the governor of the National Republic of Serbia, which concerns the course of the dinars. In fact, the dinar of these days is 119 dinars for one euro and that is the largest amount in the last period. In this year, the National Bank sold incredible billions and 50m euros to protect dinar courses. In the last month alone, the euro has increased 1.7% compared to the dinar and 3.7% in this year alone. My question is, what will the governor do to stabilize the course of the dinar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8823	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8824	I thank the chairman. I ask the question to the Minister of Culture Ivan Tasovac on behalf of 30 domestic TV stations that have evidence that the Law on Electronic Media is being violated in the most harsh way, because cross-border channels unauthorizedly broadcast advertisements by domestic companies on their own programs, operating in a gray zone and thus have no obligations towards the state, while domestic broadcasters, domestic televisions, who are obliged to record each broadcast advertising and pay taxes, as well as other taxes to the state are not legally equalised in this way. We have two basic problems here. The first is that they are not the same market conditions for domestic and cross-border broadcasters and others that cross-border broadcasters operate in the gray zone according to these evidences. I would also remind citizens of Serbia that the state of Serbia has committed itself to the Convention on Cross-border Television to guarantee freedom of reception and re-emission of the programme in its original form. The Law on Electronic Media in Article 4th of Article 29th and Article 74th of the legislator prohibits the termination of the original programme broadcast from abroad and re-emissions in Serbia, which means that advertising contributions cannot be included on these channels. According to my knowledge, dozens of domestic broadcasters will launch a campaign aimed at not paying compensation to the regulator if cross-border broadcasters continue to break the law. I must also remind myself that I have submitted two amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, which regulate this area and impose sanctions on those who violate it, but the government has not accepted them. That is why I would ask the Minister of Culture to answer my following questions – are cross-border channels in Serbia registered as taxpayers? Does the tax administration have data on how many TV channels from abroad are recasting the programme in Serbia, on which commercials are broadcast daily? Are they employees or people who work on these programs in a working relationship? Do these channels pay compensation to Sokoya and other organizations that protect copyright and other rights? What exactly will the Ministry of Culture do to ensure that this law applies to all and what are the sanctions for those who violate it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8825	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8826	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, a question for Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection Snezana Boskovic Bogosavljevic. As to the repeated question asked by the National MP Nada Lazic on July 29th, and the issue is when and how will it remove a wild dump that does nothing on the Belgrade highway – Novi Sad, at the turn of Novi Banovac? Except that a colleague of mine lost her answer a long time ago, and passing every day past that locality, so to speak, I'm asking again. So, when a wild dump will be removed, how will those who illegally leave waste be punished, almost on the highway. The special interest of one of the newly created wild dumps is that across the highway there is an object of a company that otherwise wastes secondary raw materials. I repeat the question because there is no answer. I will ask 12 other MPs to ask the same question, we may need a 5% censorship of all members of the National Assembly to answer the question the minister is legally obliged to give us within 15 days. My second question for the minister is to request a report on the state of temporary dumps and locations prescribed for temporary dumps following the terrible and tragic floods of May this year. temporary dumps are designated for the disposal of non-standard waste in various forms, of different origins, after any such accidents as floods. I demand a report to know what's going on with these sites where certain temporary dumps are and what's going on with the non-standard waste that's been delayed to temporary dumps. With regard to the same jurisdiction, as well as the jurisdiction which is practically the Law on the Elimination of Floods taken from the Ministry, I request the minister to report on what biocidal products and on which basis they are approved for use in the area of Serbia affected by the floods. The environment area is otherwise one of the biggest topics for the EU negotiation process. The ligislative that it is necessary for this negotiation to be so as to verify whether we are applying the laws that we are making and the lack of rules that have been removed from the legal system out of ignorance, which we will have to return are the reasons why I think this should be one of the first topics and our questions and the first topics of response and the competent minister and all of the government, if we are really serious, and not the sausages think that European integrations are the reform course of this government, which I agree with, and I fully support it in that course. But he can't just say, he has to do things. You can't just talk, you gotta watch what anybody does. In the area of environmental protection, the smallest possible example is either insufficient or indemnification is general or damage is done. The laws ahead of us in the negotiation process in Chapter 27 concerning environmental protection are what is called – expensive laws. Negotiations on when they will be applied represent the most difficult area of European integration, and I consider more than negligence and ignorance an obvious fact that the dump on the Novi Sad highway is growing, that counterpart Nada Lazic has already asked the question, and that there is no answer, and the dump continues to grow. The damage is common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8827	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8828	Thank you, Your Honor. I'll have two questions, they're kind of connected, but we just need to figure out some things out. One question has been addressed to the Minister of the Interior, and another question has been addressed to the Minister of Finance, and also to the new, or assistant director of the Tax Administration, and to both of them the second issue of course. As you know, the MUP is very present in the media these days, of course we would like to have it as little as possible since we all want this country to have as little crime as possible, but some cases that many have thought will never be discovered or will never work on it, we can see that it's working very hard. This way, I would like to commend the new minister of the MUP, first of all, on a decisive move to take some people off at the MUP, because it obviously took personnel changes to get someone on the force, and I need to remind you of some of these cases that are truly tragic, and God forbid the police should never have worked on them, but they did, of course, happen, which is the case of the murder on the Brank Bridge, where one clearly hung-up driver, who later fled the country, killed Luka Jovanovic. We see that the police have done an extremely good job on this case. A murderer was found, extradited from China. Also, I have to commend the police for intensive work and very good work on the monstrous murder of little Tianna in Baimok, as well as some other cases that have been and how they have shaken the public. What's most important is that I'm kind of glad, given that I know the mother of the murdered Ranko Panic, I have to express the satisfaction that the police finally found Ranko Panic's killer after six years. In a way, to satisfy this justice, although of course no one will ever be able to bring back her son, but this monstrous murder that took place at the rally six years ago, it's really scandalous and embarrassing that six years ago no one wanted to start anything related to the subject and that, as I read in the media, the gendarme itself conducted an investigation within itself, and it seems that their member definitely killed Ranko Panic. Therefore, I must commend the MUP, which some things have triggered from a dead end, but what interests me most about it is the issue, because there has been a change of staff in the New Sad police department that I welcome. The city had major problems, at least that's what the media wrote, with violence, especially underage, but what I'm interested in, are certain investigations that were generally launched in Novi Sad, which are related to the Vojvodina Development Bank and the Regional Capital Investment Fund. I'm interested - as long as it's been investigated in this case, because the citizens of the AP Vojvodina were primarily damaged, since the money from the Vojvodina Development Bank was drawn on the party line, however necessary to someone, in a beautiful way? Citizens are severely damaged, not to mention some investment, which the Regional Fund allegedly invested in, and the essential investment is gone, the money has been embezzled. I'm interested -- as long as it's arrived, and that's a particular issue for the interior minister, with these investigations, and of course, can we expect some epilogue soon, given that the real immeasurable damage has been done to the citizens of the AP Vojvodina themselves? There's another question about that. We've been reading it backwards for days, and again, I'd like to commend the MUP, which and what logistics it provides to people in the IRS. The second issue concerns the finance minister and the new assistant director who is now serving as director of the Tax Administration. We read every day about the extremely successful actions of this country related to curbing the grey economy especially in the gambling sector, especially in the catering sector that we see that many of them, who are such glamorous and large catering facilities, have never issued fiscal accounts, or have falsely reported their traffic, and I support the state in this action. But I'm interested, given that it's so much represented and that we're reading about incredibly large actions, is the finance minister and the people himself in the IRS who are now executives going to take certain measures against those who have watched all these silences, who have been watching it, who seem to have helped develop a grey economy, who have been growing? So I'm interested in answering whether people who have allowed such a thing will respond and, of course, I'm interested in some of these staff changes, or if there will be any new proposals for our financial sector shortly before the assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8829	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Miljana Nikolic, Miroslav Markicevic and Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović. We continue to work and move on to a search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Dr. Srdjan Verbić, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, I have called on Professor Zoran Lužanin, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Dr. Milovan Šuvakov, Special Advisor of Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, and Dr. Miodrag Popović, professional consultant at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. You have received amendments submitted to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Higher Education by Members: Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavićevic, Mirko Čikiriz, Mr Aleksandar Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović, Borislav Stefanović, Dr Ljubisa Stomirović, Jovan Marković, Goran Ćirić, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarević, Enis Karić, Riza Halimi, Shaip Kamberi, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Prof. Dr. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milanka Karić, Dragomir Karić, Academyist Ninoslav Stojadinović, Prof. Dr. Janko Želinović, Zlatna Đerić, Dr. Blaže Bradić, Dr. Milorad Mijatović, Milena Bijan, Ljana Karić, Ljiljan Nestarjanažarjana, Nestor, Neštor, Neštor Štor Žović, Mražić, Mir, Mr. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he rejected as incomplete, which is proposed to add a new article 17a, which was jointly submitted by the MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. To Article 1. The amendment was brought together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the Amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Ministers and Guests, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which calls for the principle of academic integrity to be introduced into the higher education system in Serbia. We felt, continue to believe, and we will believe that after the great damages caused by the higher education system, because of the suspicion that the high-ranking officials of this country plagiarised parts of their works and doctoral dissertations, it was necessary to introduce the principle of academic integrity by amending the Law on Higher Education, in order to have a strong obstacle to the serious violations of the principles of academic integrity in our system of higher education. The Serbian government, honourable MPs, has rejected this proposal with the following explanation - that the amendment is not accepted for technical reasons, because they believe it would be necessary to amend Article 4 in order to have the principle of academic integrity in Article 4, and since our amendment changes 6, then, for technical reasons, this is not possible. Gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I think this is a very important question. I don't think this is a technical matter. I believe that this argument was first announced by Minister Verbic that he himself was wrong when he did not send to the Assembly a bill amending Article 4. The law on higher education, and when we helped him correct his first mistake, he continued to make mistakes by avoiding, in article 6, accepting a wording that replaced this mistake he had previously made. Mr. Verbic, I ask you to reconsider, and all of you MPs, please read this amendment one more time, to think about it. It is important that in the higher education system in Serbia we have the principle of academic integrity immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8831	You've used 20 seconds from the time of your own MP. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8832	Dear Ambassador Pavicevic, you are certainly right that the principle of honesty is an important thing for higher education. What we as promoters think is necessary for all levels of education to introduce this principle and formal, or technical reasoning in this case, is, therefore, being rejected for technical reasons, but we essentially believe that such a principle should stand and that it should also stand in Article 4 of the now applicable law. We've been talking about this law for months. We had a public discussion, we had a public hearing. At no time did it come to the agenda to change Article 4, that where the principles based on higher education are otherwise not matured the idea that there should be a principle of honesty. There's certainly a gap, if we wanted to put it on, but as the promoter, so does all of you why we didn't do it at that time. So, for technical reasons, the amendment is not a good solution. In any case, everything that is content and everything that is the meaning of this proposal regarding the principle of honesty should be an integral part of the new education law that will come on the agenda next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8833	Word has Dr Marko Atlagic My apologies, colleague Atlagic. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Right to replica.]] I don't see in any part that you've acquired the right to a replica. The minister even spoke highly of your amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Can I explain? You can't explain it, except those five minutes that belong to you as a MP. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Can I explain why I think you should give me the right to a replica? You can't, I'm sorry. Here's a colleague of Atlagic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8834	Dear President, Mr. Minister, this amendment that counterpart Pavicevic filed at the very least, I don't think it makes sense. I'll say why and his explanation even more. The amendment's objection that the law lacks a clearly formulated principle of openness, even the first part, does not stand. On the contrary, he is clearly indicated. I'll explain here to see what's going on. In fact, universities, or colleges, will list all areas of the university's work to which the principle of openness is concerned by their most important act, i.e. the statute. That's what we've been doing so far. As for the second part of the amendment, I quote: “The openness of the university should be with respect to the rules of academic honesty. “ I also feel that it should not appear that the legislator has put it well, for academic honesty is just one of the moral qualities of teachers. Why do I say that? What are the other features? Dignity, honesty, tolerance, responsibility, ethical integrity. We have 10 principles, and the openness of the university, I think there's been a confusion here, is a very complex process. It's one of the principles on which high education in general works. I will list several principles – academic freedoms, university autonomy, the unity of teaching and scientific work, openness to citizens and the public, which is to say no further. Even the Education Strategy by 2020, on page 144, defined international, besides openness. I'm sorry, two, three sentences to say. Among other things, what does that mean? The participation of foreign teachers in the teaching course in doctoral studies is what the statute should define. Furthermore, studying foreign students at our universities, this statute needs to be resolved, and he has now solved it. Thirdly, the mobility of teachers and students through participation in international research projects, please, this means openness, etc., common student programmes, although with abroad today we do not have 10% in general, publication, publications issued by the university and their impact on the world, depending on the index of citation, this is thought besides other, further, the public examines, it is now defined by statutes, the openness of teaching, not to mention. What the colleague suggested was the moral qualities of teachers, and the openness of the university is one of the principles on which the entire activity of higher education institutions is based. I counted four. My college statute I'm working on has ten of those defined. I'm just surprised my colleague didn't look at the statutes of his college, so he saw it was defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8835	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica, now to Mr Atlagic. I'm really not at any time, okay, you have a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8836	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Arsic, Minister Verbic, the honored guests, I would like to replicate to Mr Atlagic, as Mr Atlagic said that there is no meaningful amendment containing the recommendation that the principle of academic integrity become part of the higher education system in Serbia. I think it is the most meaningful and necessary thing right now within the higher education system in Serbia. I also want to show Mr. Atlagic, dear Mr. Arsic, here how this very formulation of ours is meant. The government, for example, wanted Article 1 to amend Article 6 of the existing Higher Education Act. Article 6 speaks of university autonomy. Then the government in a certain way brought about the autonomy of the university, because it added one position that reads – the activities that exercise the rights of the 1st member's position must be public and open to the citizens, and we agree with that part. We have only added one comma and the next formulation – with full respect for the principles and rules of academic honesty. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, if the Government is willing to accept in Article 6 that public and openness to citizens is something that can be overcome by the autonomy of the university, I see no reason, no reason among the members of the academic community, nor among us, the MPs, to do the same with the principle of academic integrity. Gentlemen, I believe that not accepting this idea and this amendment will mean further political defence of the police minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8837	This minister's position is very positive. He said academic honesty is something that is necessary to be included in this country's legal system. The cause of this is plagiarizers or suspects in the plagiarization of sound names in high state functions. I don't want to mention them, the whole state knows about Stefanovic and Mali and everyone else. But it's just the tip of the iceberg. Such plagiarists are many and are not only from the ruling party, nor from the government, former or present. It's one flood through Serbia over the last few years, five, six, maybe ten, where the mass of new doctors who have very unusual, sometimes very exclusive diplomas for which practically no one knows, or who knows where they've been defending them. It is therefore very important to put an end to such behavior in that area, where it is practically the easiest to do so. Of course it's primarily the interest of the academic community. But it's also an interest to society, that everyone who sends their children to studies knows that they are sent to something that is a new value that is not subject to manipulation, fraud, plagiarism and anything that is completely contrary to what needs to be worn by an academic function. You said, Mr. Minister, that for technical reasons, you couldn't accept this, that we put this change in Article 6, which was part of the amendment of the law, that you think that one such change is a place in Article 4. That Article 4 was not now part of the amendment. Here, now I'm offering you a compromise. If Mr Pavicevic and I propose a law amending the Law on Higher Education, where in Article 4, we are going to ask for an amendment to this law, with the text we have now put into Article 6, which means that academic honesty is being incorporated into these amendments to the law, will the Serbian Government, will you, as a minister and your ministry, give support to the proposal of two legislators to amend the law in that direction? We can do this very quickly, at the beginning of next week, and there is an opportunity for us to come very quickly at this fast pace that the Serbian Parliament is working on, to achieve our common ambition, which is to give us a decent education. Of course, we can take the opportunity to put that attribute, that definition, into other laws that define other levels of education. I totally agree that it's not just a problem in higher education, although it's the biggest one. But we'll find these problems at lower levels of education. If we agree on that, here's an opportunity to show that Parliament is working in one good will, with good intentions, where it doesn't matter what color the membership book is or who it comes from, or what it came from, but to show that on this important topic we can achieve a high level of agreement that will lead to a unanimous change of law, and that it is amended on the proposal of the two opposition MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8838	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8839	The government's position on this matter is pretty clear. We feel that the principle of academic integrity is important. Is it appropriate to change the law once again within a few weeks, when we have already announced that next year will be a whole new law, I'm not sure. It should certainly also be checked with a legal service which is a deadline and how quickly it can be done, whether it justifies the effort it has made. What should certainly be taken into account is that the academic honesty that we are talking about and the plagiarism problem is getting very deep into the scientific and research work. The law that will come to the agenda before the new law on education is a new law on scientific and research work, and if plagiarists are making a serious problem anywhere, then it is in publishing scientific papers. That's what's going to be solved in the next months. To pass a new law on higher education, we need not only to write this law, but also to have a basis in some other laws, and it is precisely one of them that is the law on scientific and research work, which follows, which is at work and which should be in public debate immediately after the new year.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8840	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8841	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, I'm always fascinated when it comes to scientific plagiarisms or whatever someone's talking about whether or not they have prom. It's something that's amazing to me. You know, and the story of honesty, well, someone who's a scientific worker and here calls for academic honesty should know that until someone finds out he's a plagiarist, you don't have the right to accuse anyone before people who allegedly wrote that he's something plagiaristic, the question is how credible they are, because one of them doesn't even have a doctorate, and he's already found it appropriate to accuse someone of plagiarizing something. It's something that's scandalous. If we're talking about some honesty at the university, so I'm sorry, and all those colleges that have been founded since 2000 and then here and whose diplomas have been recognised, it wasn't the current government and it wasn't the accreditation, it was the government of the parties where you were on that list, so there was a complete circus at our university. You know, I don't mind introducing something like this, but we do, I'm talking academic honesty, but if you put it like that in the law, then here it comes from the principle that everyone who enrolls in postgraduate studies, that they're not honest people. You know, who's going to determine what academic integrity is? Does anyone not want to maybe go back to some commissions of the Communist Union, so someone will tell us – you're morally like and you're not. Many here now complain about a college somewhere, and a bunch of them admired another Tito, he was formally a locksmith, so they didn't want to tell anyone, so excuse us, the locksmith runs our country, but they all bowed down to another Tito and said it was our greatest son of the people and people. I'm sorry, the college circus started in 2000, so let's say, when we really let it pass any criteria to be called college. You are Minister Verbić, I commended you in the principle debate, very well set out, and finally the law introduces this generosity, these changes and additions, because you will know what college is. After all, everything must be kept in electronic form to be made available. Everyone's doctorate is available and, of course, subject to evaluation. Of course, all colleges are subject to evaluation after five years, at least as it predicts, you have to apply for accreditation again, so that this kind of thing is unacceptable, because if we put it in the beginning we'd have an objection that everyone who enrolls in postgraduate studies is people who aren't honest, and that's something that's not normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8842	The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8843	Dear President, I'm going to say three or four sentences again, this is pure pedagogy, I'm sorry if there's a pedagogical by profession, which doesn't say what it's about. Academic congratulation, I repeat, is one of the moral traits of teachers. What other moral traits are these? Dignity, honesty, tolerance, responsibility, etc. If you put one on, you should put all these on. Secondly, the openness of the university, you who work at the university, we know very well, is one of the principles, there are ten-fifteen, where the whole high school work stands. What other principles are these? Academic freedoms, the autonomy of the university, the unity of teaching and scientific work, etc., so as not to list them any further. Therefore, I really call on Members to support the Government's proposal, because this, indeed, the second part of the sentence does not make sense, which the MP proposed by the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8844	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8845	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I accept the argument that we have received from the Government and I agree with the proposed conclusion that the amendment, as set out at this point, should not be accepted for the reasons set out. Although I have to notice, I notice on the basis of the current course of discussion, that this is the way the amendment is formed, perhaps in fact just the reason that some of the topics that are definitely not this place and today are back on the agenda, so to speak, but let's try to stick to the specifically proposed amendment, the solutions that come out of it, if I'm wrong in this original court somewhere, I can even apologize in advance. So, when it comes to the proposed amendment, we've been given the reason that the reasons are technically, and I don't think anyone here, including the government or the opposition or the amendment promoter, has anything to add. We agree that Article 4 of the Law is a place where principles are defined and it is not difficult to convince anyone who wants to. Article 4 of the existing law really bears the title – Principles of Higher Education. So, every principle, including the principle of honesty, including academicity, certainly is the place of Article 4. If the question is asked – and why am I, in Article 6 in particular, stressing openness? First, we should note that openness is one of the principles defined in Article 4. So the principles are the place of Article 4, and I'm going to give myself a comfort to interpret this solution to Article 6, the openness here is only further and particularly highlighted. Why, in addition and why in particular, I have noticed not only in the written explanation of this amendment, but also in some of those relating to the same member, that the proposings fail to notice exactly what openness represents, which means, what it specifically refers to and why it deserves a special place in the law. I think it's easy to find an answer to that question, first of all through this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. Why through this one? In several places, in individual members, this law sets out the principle of openness to concrete measures, for example. It is not difficult to find a provision introducing an obligation to provide such information as an obligation through openness, which means an obligation, to provide information that is relevant to the public, i.e. citizens, as an obligation. Examples work, digital repository, texts and thesis, commission solutions, along with conclusions. For example, there is an obligation to give information on the level of tuition and on how the tuition was calculated, i.e. how the value was established. For example, there is an obligation for the public to get acquainted with the annual budget of a higher education institution. These are all the direct consequences of the principle of openness and I think it is more than clear why he deserves to be particularly prominent with this bill of law. I think on the other hand, if we don't forget that we've missed something that belongs to Article 4, that's what we put there, because this is still the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law. So we can't affect all members of the original law. What if we potentiate it without a clear explanation, what it pulls with it, as we do when it comes to the principle of openness. Then I think we're going into the gray zone, into the area of discussion. Then why is something potential? What's the reason it's done? Did we further develop what we wanted to point out? The amendment promoter didn't do it, and I think I can see why. I base my position on a written explanation that, to say the contrary criticises the emphasis of the principle of openness and considers it insufficiently elaborated and insufficiently reasoned. What do we do by laying down some new principle, be it the principle of academic honesty, without further consideration and further reasoning? Exactly what the amendment promoter is calling himself. Is that what we're making confusion about? It's something the Amendment Proposer should have been thinking about, but I don't think any harm has been done, on the contrary. We've been able to hear that only the ministry agrees, and not just the ministry, you won't hear anyone in this room have anything against honesty, I'm including another academic. For everything there is a way, and that way is to prepare a whole new law on higher education, for which once again we all agree that it should be made and with great satisfaction, I appreciate, the MPs in this high House will make their contribution to the preparation of this legal solution. For these reasons, once again, I believe that there is no reason not to accept the proposed amendment of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, with the solutions adopted at this time and that we are working together to create a new, more comprehensive and comprehensive solution, which will certainly include everything we agree on today, but simply the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law is not a way to introduce it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8846	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Ministers and Guests, that principle - we agree with you, but we do not accept your proposal; I do not understand. I want here now for our amendment to introduce the principle of academic honesty into the higher education system in Serbia to mention three more things to try to convince the MPs first and foremost to vote this amendment and to oppose the wrong government policy. Here's about these three things. First of all, you know, gentlemen, what honesty is and what academic honesty is. About honesty, it's enough to start with the dictionaries, to get to know each other, to say, some basic interpretation, to recognize the meaning of the term. Here is the Serbian Language Dictionary, which means honesty – which is not defiled by anything wrong, morally correct, honorable, honest. Gentlemen, academic honesty is even less unknown. Academic congratulation, for all those who may first meet this principle, is based on the independent work of writing, as well as on the strict respect for other people's copyrights. So I ask you, Mr. Arsic, to tell Mr. Orlic that there is no confusion around the principle of academic integrity, no misunderstanding. It is clear exactly what the principle of academic honesty means, as gentlemen, clearly knows that plagiarism and autoplagiarism are the most severe violation of academic honesty, and we have had examples here over the past few months, cases, that academic honesty, that there are serious doubts about it and confirmations, and here I am now going to tell you that this thing has been done by some of the highest state officials in our country, such as the Minister of Police or as mayor of Belgrade. With the amendment of the Law on Higher Education, we had to react to the violation of the principle of academic integrity and Minister Verbic did not do so. Look, if a man defends his doctoral dissertation, respected Minister Verbic in front of a five-member commission, and he's only one member, it turns out during the debate on our Board of Education, he was qualified to appreciate the value of doctoral dissertation, isn't that, dear Mr. Verbic, a violation of the principle of academic integrity? Don't we urgently have to react to that instead of you suggesting we wait until the end of 2015 to have a new law and principle of academic integrity. Dear Mr Verbic, we also have an international verification where one publishing house in Germany sought the opinion of a commission that is the relevant professional international body and confirmed that Belgrade Mayor Siniš Mali has plagiarized parts of his work, not doctoral dissertation, but one work. The international commissions are responding to our violations, and we are unable to agree here today on the introduction of the principle of academic integrity. Dear Mr. Arsic, Mr. Verbic, our proposal is, I think, the best possible in these relationships. On Monday, we will propose new amendments to the Higher Education Act, which we will ask for the principle of academic integrity to be introduced into Article 4. The matter is urgent and please, just once again to tell us, will you accept our amendment or won't you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8848	Thank you. The word is by the MP of the people, Dr Nebojsa Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8849	Thank you. I must repeat my astonishment by a simple statement that we can hear about the assembly speaker and how political it is, so to speak, the inaccuracy on the scene, regardless of how much I respect the promoter as an exceptional speaker, who could indeed convince this assembly that hell is a pleasant place for life, in which it is constantly warm, where there are many interesting characters and where it is never boring. Since I come from an academic environment, from the University of Belgrade, I believe that this, as I say, a daily-politically motivated proposal to amend one member of the proposed law, would be extremely irresponsible and, above all, because it would offend, with full responsibility, the hard, academic community of Serbia, because academic integrity is present today in Serbia and higher education institutions in Serbia, absolutely present. You know, by seizing out the idea of academic honesty in the law, we would absolutely humiliate all those people who are doing their duties and working on academic higher education organizations. In our people was the old one, an army of shorts, some others of honesty, and some of the third obviously of honesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8850	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8851	Thank you. I use the time of the parliamentary group, with the aim of supporting both the amendment that is very similar to the amendment that my fellow Members, Aleksandra Jerkov, and the proposal presented by MP Zoran Zivkovic, and after the comment of the minister on that, we assume that for the government, academic integrity, the definition of the concept is very accessible is not disputed, but has been rejected for technical reasons. When the MP proposes a procedurally clear and clear procedure that removes technical reasons, then the minister says it is a shame to make two amendments to the law and to accept the proposal of the MP who will sign the proposal of that member which rejects the argument that the amendment is excellent, that academic integrity should be in the Higher Education Act, but is removed from technical shortcomings. I want to share the paraphras of one as theoretically, as well as verifiable truths when it comes to women. It is said: a woman is not born, a woman is raised up. That's how the minister doesn't set up or choose. The minister's getting up. All that happens in the minister's office and in the name of the minister. I have no doubt that you are sincere when the argument that you have nothing against academic honesty is that you have nothing on the contrary and that it will already be in some law, but I ask you to understand that the fact that the argument comes down to technical objections is a terrible reminder of a metaphor of a child who puts both his palms on his eyes, and says he hid. We have a problem with academic integrity and he's the least connected to any names. I object to any names being mentioned. The problem with academic honesty is that we have such and so much that it is not that we need a new law, not that we should accept the good ideas of the MPs, but that we should have a constant discussion on the Committee on Education on what we need to change everything, which we should face, when it comes to higher education, so that we can count on our own future. That's what I expect from Minister Verbic. I think with my own academic congratulation, the only thing he deserves is for such a minister to become. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8852	The word is by MP Vuceta Toskovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8853	The Honorable Chairman, the Rules of Procedure, Art. 107th and 108th. The first member says that the speaker at the assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of this house. It's not done and the dignity of this house is ruined. The 108th article says that the chairman must introduce order in the congregation, whether verbal or physical, order must be arranged in this congregation. You should have also had the previous speaker, who is the promoter of the amendment, to warn and even punish him, since no one has the right, not even the judicial decision of a court that he is a criminal, that I, as a MP, appoint him and tell him that he is a criminal. We're talking about some kind of academic principle. What is this principle now? Whose principle is this now? It means, in high school, high school education means something, not everything has to be written. Mr. Chairman, you had to warn the gentleman who proposed this amendment, because that way you can't talk about our officials, no matter who they are. Where do they get the right to convict someone before court, and they're done with law schools and teachers are at some universities? I'm going to require a vote on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8854	I understand that you're asking the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the facts you've made. I believe, since you asked the Assembly to plead, that I do not need to give you an explanation, or that I believe that the Rules of Procedure has not been broken in any part of it. The word is made by the People's Messenger Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers and guests, dear Mr Arsic, I believe that a member of the 103 has just been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 3 provides for when a member of the Parliament can, under what conditions, intervene and point to a breach in the conduct of the chairmanship of the National Assembly. It is in this article that the speaker who is now calling for this member can intervene orally only if the injury was committed during the previous speaker's speech, and that was Mrs. Comic. In his two-minute presentation, Mr Toskovic spoke about what I was talking about, and I was not a previous speaker, but Mrs Comic. I therefore believe that you should warn Mr Toskovic, if you have not already done so during his speech, in the future try to strictly adhere to the members and contents of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to tell him that the most serious offense we can do here today is to agree that academic integrity is not part of Serbia's higher education system. We, dear Mr. Arsic, have offered here a proposal and a minister who, I think, also adheres to this principle of honesty and academic honesty and good work in the National Assembly. The proposal is – we propose academic honesty as a principle in Article 4 on Monday, and the minister to tell us today whether he will accept our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8856	I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I noticed quite late that he even advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and don't let him get that right. I didn't want to interrupt my colleague because I think it might be my responsibility for not noticing it right away. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8857	Once again, the government's position is clear. The principle of academic honesty is important, but being important doesn't mean that it's enough to change one member so that the situation changes. We think it's too important that we can make such a simple change to have any effect. Since one of the starting grounds for amending and supplementing this law was feasibility, something that we will be able to do through sublaws very simply and quickly to apply, before it comes to the order of the new law, I am not sure that it is appropriate to introduce a member who would not actually look anywhere in the rules, because it would be very difficult to convert the principle of academic integrity into some criteria on which someone would later be punished for not respecting it or for using it in the wrong way. We therefore believe that it is necessary to introduce this principle into the law, but not in this way, by changing one single member, or by adding three words. Would the government accept such changes and additions? I can't answer that question, because we don't know what that would be like. For many of these amendments, we thought we'd stand behind them, or we'd adopt them, so that didn't happen. We also thought we'd say no, so we didn't. That depends on the specific formulation. So if you're willing to make changes and additions, we can talk about that later when it's formulated. Before anyone formulates these changes and additions concerning academic honesty, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this article is actually about the public, to open public openness to citizens and citizens. It's too big a thing to bring down control, which stands behind the score, to academic integrity only. If, apart from academics, there was some kind of media honesty, what do I suspect is in that dictionary, and if it were defined somewhere, it would be easier to accept such an amendment. In any case, academic honesty is important. In order for it to be applied, in order to really have some effects, we would have to add more to the article on openness and the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8858	The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8859	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, I will rely on Mr. Minister's discussion. If we're talking academic honesty, then we have to ask ourselves a question - where was she when it came to the 2007 Index affair? Where, then, was judicial honesty for the same professors who had a reasonable suspicion, with evidence, that they had wronged the law and done great harm to all those who did their job with honor and justice, returned to work, returned to the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac, to teach their children, their students about academic integrity? I want to tell you that this principle must be understood when it comes to the academic public, but it must be understood as the principle of honesty in politics, in the judiciary, in the executive bodies, in terms of people who perform public functions, and in that part, when we talked about the Law on Information, media honesty. It's the least public. I wanted to tell you that in this part of it, the promoter wanted to implement one marketing performance in terms of honesty, because he wanted to launch a whole political campaign of attacks on people who were not even proven to have plagiarism, because one mistake in the methodology of scientific research, and the other is plagiarism. Secondly, the candidate, a doctorate, cannot be convicted of plagiarism, but first of all, mentors behind such work and commissions who allow such work to be defended. Before defending the work, there are three commissions, two senates, three scientific councils to bring a particular topic to the defense. No one from "The Sandstone" wanted to talk about it, but he carried out a campaign on which the entire public and certain centres of political power settled, so we got the result of a huge dissatisfaction of parents who should enroll their children in studies. Parents are more likely to enroll their children abroad than with us. Why? Because studying in Vienna is twice as cheap as at Belgrade University. Because now you have a smaller enrolment of students at the State Faculty of Economics than it has ever been before. I want to tell you that you are responsible for promoting such values and such campaigns to deal with one Nebojsa Stefanovic, and you are essentially dealing with our children who, today, tomorrow, need to finish school here and be people who will carry the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8860	The word of the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8861	I don't think I should further explain all the ways in which the dignity of the National Assembly was injured in the discussion of distinguished colleague Aleksandra Tomic. The things she has said here about the MPs, who are trying to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education, incorporate the principle of academic honesty, are indeed beneath every level of discussion... (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Member of the Rules of Procedure. ) The dignity of the National Assembly. If you listen to something, you might hear it. To accuse MPs, who propose amendments, in their best interest, of doing so with future students, with their parents, with our children, as our colleague said, not only coming out of the level of discussion that we should have in this assembly, but from the level of one decent, not political, but human communication. The law of the SNS is to defend a plagiarist indictee, however he wills, but cannot abuse it and to transfer other MPs to the fact that the Faculty of Economics does not enroll students or that children want to study outside the country. Please respond to these allegations. I don't know what this is about. I don't know why you let your colleague say all these things, but please don't react to such terrible things that, not to lead anywhere, they're below every level of human communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8862	I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. One of the MPs cannot expect that here in the Assembly he can mention the names of ministers in the government and their professional equipment, and then expect him not to respond to their accusations or their views. If you want me to interrupt my colleagues, no matter what political parties they're from, from which the parliamentary groups are, when they come to this part of the field that you've now advertised as a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I think a lot of warnings and penalties would be given here. I don't think there's any breach. The colleague presented her personal position on which she has the right as a National MP, at a session on the subject of the agenda. I don't see how... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: The colleague said we are dealing with our children. ) You draw words from the context. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Minister and guest, Your Honor, Mr. Arsic, I think this is a very serious moment right now. Article 103 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposal for two MPs to be the principle of honesty is a fundamental principle in our joint action, in some sphere, in some area, in some area, Mrs Tomic presented as our accounting with children who are now to be educated, with parents and children, and she announced that this is our marketing trick and move. Dear President Arsic, never in any speech, in this National Assembly, I have not spoken a word offensive or incorrect about any MP or any man, and I believe it was your duty to respond to this performance by Mrs Tomic, because she has now made a series of insults to our proposal to be the basis of our communication and our actions and the principle of academic integrity is not disputed in the academic community. I ask you, Mr Arsic, to pass on to Mrs Tomic and other MPs, including Minister Verbić, that the principle of academic integrity here implies one obligation of the university and the university, to make rules on academic integrity such as. Now already done by the Faculty of Political Sciences in Belgrade, based on which, Mr Arsic, please transfer it to Mrs Tomic, are primarily punished plagiarists, authors of texts that have taken over parts of other authors. The first person to be punished is a plagiarizer, and then all the other members of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8864	I'll pass on, Mr. Pavicevic, all my colleagues, Aleksandri Tomic. Obviously, you and I have different criteria for what an insult is. I think I'm a lot more tolerated than you are, so I don't think it's a broken member of 103. Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8865	Our people say: a word too great has killed them. And it looks like she was right. So now, that's why someone's got a tantrum like this. However, the basic postulate of a man of congratulations is that he does not deceive the public. And here we have a delusion, a very respected colleague I would advise not to use the term – the police minister because we don't have it, we have the interior minister, that's a big difference. You need to learn the difference between police and internal affairs. It doesn't matter, I don't blame you, you're not a lawyer. However, to say that someone has plagiarized without any evidence of it, and in doing so, the Minister of the Interior has requested that his work be checked, I'm sorry, in your time we could never hear from any of your officials. Let me remind you, this is the 2012 Ministry of Education's information that every 10 diplomas in Serbia were false. I'm sorry, that circus with the fake diplomas and the university you brought in. These changes and additions introduce order at the university. It's the principle of academic honesty that goes through the whole law. Anyone who has read the principles of amendments and additions to this law, it is clear to him that the principle of academic honesty is really being introduced here. What you want to point out and this is how you run the campaign is really something that's inappropriate. This is primarily not appropriate for a decent man, and I am a respected colleague who is a scientific worker, I really didn't expect that from you, no matter how politically we disagree in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8866	The word has a folk MP Vesna Marjanović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8867	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a member of 107 you have done in your previous presentation. This debate on the integrity of the academic and humane will surely enter the annals of the Assembly as probably a less famous episode in our current discussions. But what I would like to point to, Mr. Chairman, is that by saying that in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you cannot mention the name of the minister in the government without responding, not only have you violated the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also the constitutional order and principle of the division of power and any possible principle we have accepted as respectable members of international organisations that care about Parliament's independence and respect for the rule of law. To say that to any MP, let alone the chairman, I don't know if it exists in one parliament except in some who can certainly not be called democratic. So no one has spoken offensively of the ministers, so to understand your reaction, we have absolutely the right to mention ministers, that's our main task. To criticize them. It is not the Parliament's duty to defend the government, let the government defend itself with its own work and arguments. I'm really surprised by that statement of yours, and I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. What goes into the stenograms, fortunately in this congregation there are stenograms, so one day someone will read what you said today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8868	I really can't understand what I did wrong. It is natural that the congregation is a place where political differences exist. You can't accuse one side without expecting an answer from the same side. Are you going to mention the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, any other MPs, it's absolutely nothing. It is not prohibited to pronounce their names, it is not prohibited to criticise them either, but it is also not prohibited and it is desirable to accept criticism when they are directed towards each other. I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure, a 107 member who's already been advertised more than once. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (Vesna Marjanović, from town: Yes. ) It will come out. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8869	Article 103 is injured. By the way, I understand your tolerance. I am a supporter of discussion in the Assembly, but you know, when you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then you must also raise the Rules of Procedure. That's what we're always asked to do. Then quote a member of the Rules of Procedure, not just to say the dignity of the Assembly, not to even say which member he is. So it is another in a series of evidence that some MPs are completely unprepared to come to the session as they are completely unprepared for the whole discussion. It's your turn to react. I won't ask the Assembly to plead. I'm just warning you of these injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8870	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the amendment within the time group of MPs. The Serbian Progressive Party believes that, in this context, as some MPs of the former regime's party put it, the issue of academic honesty is actually being broken as a cowardly egg, so that certain prominent political officials of the SNS, regardless of whether it is Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, whether it is Belgrade Mayor Sinisha Malo or any other figure, any other political figure representing the SNS and its policy, are in advance accused and not only accused, but convicted of something they did not do. If you followed closely the presentation of the former regime's MPs, what could you have noticed? No, there is a suspicion that Nebojsa Stefanovic plagiarized his doctoral dissertation, no, there is a suspicion that Sinisa Mali did so. No, Nebojsa Stefanovic is a plagiarizer. Sinisha Mali is a plagiarizer. So, in advance, there's a verdict that someone's guilty. Who does that? They make completely incompetent people. People who are exclusively politically motivated to cause political damage to the people who represent the SNS in public. People who do that don't think they care about at least two things. First of all, I don't think they know what plagiarism is. Secondly, it's a plagiarism, the second question is the quality of one research paper, one scientific paper or one doctoral dissertation. About whether one scientific article, scientific research or doctoral dissertation is more or less quality, about which all people who do this kind of science, but note, this type or this branch of science, can have their own subjective attitude. Someone can say that the doctoral dissertation of Heavenly Stefanovic is of quality, someone can say that it is less quality, but I don't think anyone who really deals with this branch of science can say that Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic performed the plagiarism. Plagiarism is a legal institute that has existed since Roman law. It's stealing intellectuals. It's when you present as your something that he actually wrote, painted, someone else. We had examples of plagiarists in our science very much. I'm not going to name names because some of these people are no longer alive, and they've made their scientific careers, whether consciously or unconsciously, certain mistakes in writing their textbooks, scientific papers, and objectively what they've done is plagiarism. But, on the other hand, when you look at their entire scientific opus beyond the context of these mistakes they've made, they're people who have enormously owed our science. I can specifically speak for legal science, but I don't want to speak names because I think it's simply not polite at this point. Here, the problem is not to defend the principle of academic honesty for the sake of principle, but to use academic integrity as a political weapon in the fight against people who are in charge of this country, and representatives are SNS. I must also remind fellow Members of Parliament and citizens, and the professional public and the public who is less professional, how was the session of the Education Committee organised with practically one single item of the agenda, and this is the question of whether the plagiarized doctoral dissertation of Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic? The atmosphere that was created in one part of the National Assembly, the atmosphere that was created in one part of the public, the atmosphere that was created in one part of our academic community was extremely negative. In advance, the verdict was issued that Nebojsa Stefanovic was guilty and the Committee was organised as some sort of trial, where you had a prosecutor and judge who had already delivered the verdict before the trial began and MPs who defended the the thesis that the doctoral dissertation of Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic was not plagiarism. It's extremely unserious, I'm saying this not only as a politician, but also as someone who does a little bit of science, that you're investigating whether something is plagiarized in someone's doctoral dissertation by writing comments on forums, by Internet sites, which will be your estimates of whether it's plagiarized or not to give people who haven't even acquired any scientific, or teaching, people who are students, there were such cases, and then the whole story of divorce is unthinking, and instead of really dealing with the issue of academic honesty because of the principles of academic honesty, we're actually dealing with day-to-day political struggles. What my esteemed colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, said was quite true. We have created an atmosphere of general mistrust in our education system, which is not good and our children are mass, it can be proved explicitly, go abroad and not only students, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, but also students. They're enrolling in high school, high school, about colleges that I don't even speak abroad because in public without any need, without any evidence, without any valid arguments, they're creating the impression that our education system is bad, that we don't need kids to enroll our colleges, but that they're going abroad. Why? Because, knowingly, but for extreme political reasons, not for scientific reasons, not for the reasons of academic honesty, it creates such an atmosphere that our education system is nakaradam and that it needs to be run away from. What is also asked as a question, and what I think is that colleagues are losing sight when they talk about the issue of academic honesty, in addition to whether it is a plagiarism, and we have proved on the Committee of Education that the doctoral dissertation of Mr. Nebojja Stefanovic is not plagiarism because we compared the dissertation pages to those pages that are listed in the text published on the "Sandstones" site where there is simply a clear indication that there is a discrepancy between what is written on the site and what is really written in the doctoral dissertation. So, in addition to the question -- is it something plagiarism, despite the quality issues, or should we say the style of making one doctoral dissertation, as the third question of whom colleagues have completely lost sight and did not talk about it, because they are overloaded by political struggle against SNS is the question – to what extent are doctoral dissertation or scientific research papers, which were written 30, 40,50 years ago today? Do they have any scientific value today? That's also an interesting question. Is that a matter of academic congratulation? Here are the people who acquired their PhDs 50 years ago, who believed in the ideas of Marks and Engels, who proved that the Yugoslav self-government and socialist system was not sufficiently based on Marxist ideas, that it could be even more based on the ideas of Marks and Engels. That's what people doctored on. What do you think would be if one of us had said -- let's see the doctorate of that and that gentleman, to read it a little bit, and see if it represents a scientific reading that still has scientific value today, or if it was a political pamphlet that was current at that historic moment, but that doesn't mean anything today. I mean now you ask not only students and students, but more educated people to tell you at all who Marks were, English, Lenin, Stalin, who said what congress committee, left, right turns, etc. the question of whether people would get along at all and know what it's all about. People have won doctoral dissertation on it and today they attack Nebojsa Stefanovic, Sinisha Mali, etc. that they allegedly plagiarized their doctoral dissertations. So, as you can see, the thing is not as simple as it looks at first sight. You've taken the issue of academic honesty as a means to deal with someone who doesn't politically think like you and he's guilty in advance. You haven't even read the doctoral dissertation of Heavenly Stefanovic, and even if you read it, the question is whether you're competent to assess whether she's a plagiarist or not. Now someone's giving me a doctoral dissertation from medical science, which I'd have to know if she's a plagiarist or not? I don't know what you're talking about. This is where people with high school or people who are politicians or who are asking God what, masters of European science say – yes, Nebojsa Stefanovic plagiarized doctoral dissertation. Those are difficult words that are not appropriate to the National Assembly. What would happen now if we were to ask – give us your master's degree and doctorate acquired by Vienna, by Graz, by who knows what universities, etc., to see what it says, is there any science? We have to choose words when we're accusing someone of something. The impression here is that the former regime's MPs are allegedly disproved because they are allegedly not allowed to mention the name of this or that minister, mayor of Belgrade, etc. Of course you can and of course no one questions you, but it's very ugly when you're trying to be judges and prosecutors, with some of you absolutely according to your professional and scientific qualifications being competent to do so at all. Whether or not it's a plagiarism is a question of university autonomy, and this should be dealt with by higher education institutions by people who are competent for a particular scientific field. It is not a matter of daily policy, it is not a matter of mere parliamentary debate, it is not a question I like or do not like the party represented by Nebojsa Stefanovic or Sinisa Mali or anyone else. These are very sensitive academic and scientific issues which, I think, the MPs of the former regime did not care because everything they say actually has one political background, which is – to accuse and condemn ministers in the government, mayor of Belgrade, that they are guilty of something that is not yet valid evidence that they are guilty of. What were the arguments, to remind you, that Nebojsa Stefanovic plagiarized a doctoral dissertation? Text published on the "Sandstone" site, which has a total of four non-full pages. Of those four pages, I think two were filled with text, since on these incomplete four pages were located and two photographs were quite large. So, about two pages of the text, evidence has been released that Nebojsa Stefanovic has plagiarized his doctoral dissertation. That's ridiculous. We read this at the Board of Education session and assuredly showed that Nebojsa Stefanovic had not falsified his doctoral dissertation, or that he had not prescribed anything from anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8872	Comrade Martinovic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8873	I'm done. Does anyone have a subjective view of the quality of someone's doctoral dissertation? I respect that people have that right, but only those who are experts in the area from which the doctoral dissertation is written can have that right. Everything else is simply not appropriate to discuss a very sensitive subject. It's not good, Miss Jerkov, that you get so angry when we talk about things that are very serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8874	Please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8875	Do not put on a pillar of shame our entire education system and question its quality just because you are political opponents of a party belonging to people like Neboja Stefanovic, me or any other citizen of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8876	Thank you. Mr. Zivkovic, you can't get your turn. Comrade Pavicevic, come in. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Arsic, dear ministers and honored guests, it is necessary that I intervene once again in the Rules of Procedure. I think he's a bit of an injured member of 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states that a session of the National Assembly is not allowed to use offensive expressions. In his presentation shortly before our amendment, we suggest that the principle of academic integrity become part of the higher education system in Serbia be called a cowardly egg. Please, I'm not going to go over the dictionary now, to get out of there, but, dear Mr. Arsic, I must tell you, with all due respect for your openness to the discussion, one flexibility for our debate in the assembly, I find that the term is offensive to the amendment. What is the amendment, it says in Article 161, just to remind all the MPs in order to make it more clear to us whether it is really offensive or not: "Amendment is a proposal to amend and supplement the bill." The amendment can never be treated or interpreted as a coward's egg. What's the biggest problem here, Mr. Arsic, I think? I think the biggest problem is that one of the most serious violations of the government of Aleksandr Vukic is this political defence of Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Unsuitable for a modern democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8878	I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Each of his colleagues in his own way can, of course, have the decency to express himself on the amendments. I can't help it, and I don't know what's in who's head before he says anything. Comrade Jerkov, are you in the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8879	I think, Mr. Arsic, if I had the right to a replica because Mr. Martinovic said that I had organised the Education Committee as a trial, but if you thought I didn't have one, then I would have done it by the Rules of Procedure, because there were elements for that as well. What do you think I'm right?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8880	Here, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8881	And what he said about me laughing, etc. I really think I have a few grounds, so you decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8882	Right on the line, because he mentioned you personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8883	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic said a few things which, I will quote Mr. Atlagic – are not meaningful. He claimed, in an attempt to revitalise the accusations against the interior minister that he had plagiarized his doctoral work, he spoke of some doctorates that were written 50 or 100 years ago, trying to point out that any scientific work should have unlimited scientific value and scientific contribution. It's not that something after 100 years should have a scientific value and a scientific goal, but that at a time when someone is a doctorate and someone is writing scientific work or dissertation, even if it formally meets the conditions that they do, which in the case of the Minister of the Interior was not the case at all. All to be ignored, absolutely to ignore the plagiarization charges, Aleksandar Vukic said that this was the biggest nonsense he had read in his life, then it was certainly so, and all to say that all these accusations were pointless, during the session of the Committee on Education, which you incorrectly, offensively, wrongly, tended to be called "trial", it turned out that of the five members of the Committee for Defence of Doctoral Dissertation of Heaven Stefanovic, two members were not at all able to read the doctorate, because they did not understand the language he was written, one member was not present, and after the meeting of the Committee it turned out that his mentor did not meet the formal conditions to be mentor in any committee for the defence of doctoral dissertation. Do you, Mr. Martinovic, think you, Mr. Verbic, think that defending a doctoral dissertation in front of a member of the commission can be considered a valid defence of doctoral dissertation? Since Mr Martinovic said he would talk about the amendment, which is not, which is why the amendment to Article 1 is rejected. The law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8884	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what was the theme of a committee session whose president is a respected colleague Jerkov is not something that only she and I know. You know, about that there are stenogram notes, there are stenogram records. And it is not true, I am responsible for saying, that other MPs who attended that session of the Committee are also able to confirm, it is not true that this session of the Committee found that formal conditions for the accession of defence and doctoral dissertation were not met, but that speculation arose after the Committee's session was concluded. The media has proven these formal shortcomings in the process of defending doctoral dissertation. So, at the Committee session, we dealt exclusively with it because simply the session was so well-conceived whether the doctoral dissertation was plagiarized or not. We proved that it wasn't and the session was over. After that, a campaign against Neboja Stefanovic was continued in the media and has been proven in the media. So in the media, and in certain media, not at the board's session, there are no formal conditions to defend the doctoral dissertation of Mr Nebojja Stefanovic. And at the Committee session, we were very convincing, after all, remember, well, I was bringing this doctoral dissertation, comparing the page numbers listed on the "Sandstone" site to the number of pages in the doctorate itself and showing that there is a discrepancy. So, that's quoted things that aren't in the doctoral dissertation. Because let's go back to the very beginning of the story. So the authors of the text on the "Sandstones" site accused Nebojsa Stefanovic of plagiarizing the work. You accepted that thesis and wanted to prove it at the Board of Education session. We've proven that's not true. Everything that happened later happened after the Committee's session was over and it happened in the media.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8886	Just to remind fellow MPs that the debate is under way on Article 1 of the amendment, which was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. It's the first amendment we started working with today, and here's two hours. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go. You want a replica? Here you go. The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8887	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. It'll be less than two minutes. Mr. Martinovic somehow got out of his mind or forgot that the Committee session turned out, which Mr. Jovanovic said at this very session of the Committee, that there were no copies of the work in English, nor was the work done in English, which was automatically determined by Mr. Jovanovic's own recognition that two members of the commission could not read the work at all. Your intervention, I don't think, is in place, because every word SNS deputies say during this debate, in which the political defence of the interior minister confirms why we must include the principle of academic integrity in the system of higher education. And every word spoken in this debate by the SNS MPs makes an explanation that Mr Verbic has given to reject this amendment and the amendment that will be next in order, which the MPs from the DS have submitted, shows us that this principle needs to be included in our higher education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8888	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8889	Mr. Minister said that only the introduction of this syntagma into the law will not change the situation and that it takes much more to do. I agree, but this principle, the introduction of principles into the law produces that, on the basis of this principle, in all universities and universities, rules of law that will deal with the development of this principle. If you'd asked your advisors they'd have told you that, but you didn't, because you didn't have time, probably. Anyway, that's exactly what we want this principle to create conditions to prevent sublaws, regulations and other sublaws from repeating this situation that we have today. It's completely pointless to accuse anyone of being guilty of having some kids go to colleges and some kids go to other colleges. If the number of people enrolled in Megatrend is reduced, I'm proud of what we've been doing for the past few months, and for these other colleges there are some other, much more appropriate explanations. Nineteen or twenty times is the previous speaker on the other hand mentioning the interior minister in order to defend him. I think now the entire Serbian public and that it is clear to her that there is no defence and that our allegations are correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8890	Right on line, Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8891	I don't want to argue with Mr. Zivkovic simply because he is not an adequate talker on this subject, I just want to remind you of a few things that my dear colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, has pointed out. You can't access the defense of doctoral dissertation at any university, whether private, or state, at the end of the day here are teachers at various universities in Serbia, that the Board of Assessment and Defence of Doctoral Dissertation did not approve, and that your doctoral dissertation is not on the Internet presentation of the university where you defend doctoral dissertation. During that time, every doctoral dissertation is available. Anyone can read it and anyone can make his remarks. What SNS MPs pointed to is that the claims about the plagiarization of Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic's doctoral dissertation appeared a year after the doctoral dissertation was defended when Nebojsa Stefanovic became interior minister and set off with a determined fight against crime and corruption. At the end of the day, it is shown how successful this man is in his fight, handed down in record short to the Republic of Serbia, Marko Milicevic, charged with a serious murder, Mr Panic's murderer, who lost his life in 2008. Then, it began with the removal of incompetent police administration chiefs all over Serbia and the results of the fight against crime and corruption have been seen. Someone is now trying to stop it by remembering after a year to say or accuse Nebojsa Stefanovic of plagiarizing his doctoral dissertation. Why did these experts not report last year when the doctoral dissertation under the current Higher Education Act had to be at the university's internal presentations.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8892	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8893	I've been holding this Rules of Procedure for five minutes now, and I think the 107th member of the National Assembly has been injured, the dignity of the National Assembly when the MP, Mr. Zivkovic, gave a very accusing assessment to the Minister of the Interior. I don't blame him that much, because he really doesn't know high school, but I'm shocked by Mr. Pavicevic's statements. At least he knows that such a job has the right to deal only with the university at which the doctorate defends itself. Gentlemen, the professors of the university are watching us. Mr. Pavicevic, and your discussion is being watched, they are shocked. I'll show you 50 text messages, you're a professor of university. Only that university can prove the last ethical committee, the second is, in labour law exists. Who gives us the right as messengers to speak about it? Do you think we're MPs... .
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8894	Please, no personal address to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8895	... To be masters of the life and death of professors and students? We can't, of course. I'm shocked, really. I think you should have warned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8896	Just a question, do you want to make the Parliament's vote in the day to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8897	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8898	Oh, no? All right. The word is made by the People's Messenger Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Minister Verbic, I hope you benefit from this debate. Dear Mr. Arsic, he's just been broken one more time, I think, Article 103. Rules of Procedure, and there are two things I'd like to say about that. First, Article 103 provides that an MP may indicate that there is an infringement in the chairmanship of the National Assembly, but only in relation to the previous speaker. Before Professor Atlagic spoke Mr. Martinovic, and Mr. Atlagic spoke about something Mr. Zivkovic spoke about before. And Mr. Arsic, I think it's an obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, plus, there's one more thing, here's the question – can only universities deal with assessing whether it's a plagiarism? I just have to tell you to pass it on to Mr. Atlagic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8900	Believe me, I'm not interested in that right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8901	But for the violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8902	Here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8903	One sentence, let me tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8904	All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8905	Gentlemen, what would happen if one of you came out of this room today, saw a sunny day, a good time, and the hydrometeorological institution said, "It's raining?" So do we have to believe it's raining, or do we have to do something to adapt to reality?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8906	Thank you, colleague Pavicevic. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. ) The word has been made by the People's MP Aleksandar Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8907	Mr. Chairman, Article 106. I just can't help but advertise, a member of 106 who says that the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. So, for hours we have here a situation where many MPs, the mah from former regime parties, are preceded by a Mr. Independent MP, who is known to have come out in one article of a list, titled a star of the Assembly. I just don't know what kind of star it is. Whether it's a shooting star, but we'll see about that. However, Mr. Chairman, you should have warned him that he is constantly breaking the Rules of Procedure, that he is constantly coming out of the agenda, has nothing to do with the amendment, with the law. So the fact that he was living in the role of that star, as it were, does not mean that he has the right to maltretiterate the National Assembly here, to distract the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8908	Just to make sure there's no one in the Rules of Procedure again. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkov, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8909	Mr. Martinovic said we are not adequate conversators, and I fully agree with that assessment. I never told the current president of the Serbian government that he was a traitor, that he was a coward, which Mr. Martinovic was saying. I've never been a Seizure of a Hague defendant who's known for being Dr. General Defence and Socialist Self-Government. I've never been mentioned in connection with any plagiarism and auto plagiarism.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8910	Mr. Zivkovic, I beg you, since you've asked for the right to replicate her and really use her.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8911	Replicating. I'm proving that we're not adequate conversationaries. I am very glad that almost all MPs with plagiarism have come forward. I call on others to report today, so the Serbian public will be fully convinced of what is going on here. I repeat, it's also said here that academic honesty is a political weapon. For people like that, yeah. For such people, academic honesty is a weapon. It is a weapon against primitives, crime and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8912	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8913	I'm advertising Article 107. - a violation of Parliament's dignity. There's someone here who's told all of us that we have plagiarism issues. I'm sorry, my postgraduate studies are very valuable and diligent and I don't allow anyone who doesn't even have the prom to call me a plagiarist. Unlike him, I did not take subsidies from the state to have vineyards, and he really has no right here and is not an adequate talker on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8914	Since we obviously have problems in the functioning and work of the National Assembly, I am merely drawing attention to the fact that from now on we are going to apply the Rules of Procedure a little differently because here we have been holding a debate over one amendment for two hours. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8915	Mr. Chairman, I am fully in agreement with your last note on your part. I wanted to thank you for telling me that there is nothing in academic honesty that is incomprehensible and controversial. I certainly agree with that, as I believe every MP here. I point out this occasion to the sad fact that from a very long time, practically from the moment you passed it on to me, and there is more than an hour-and-a-half, by the rapporteurs of this amendment and the MPs who represent and defend the amendments, we have not heard a single new reason for commenting or providing counter arguments about what we have said today in the debate, according to the amendment, specifically, in what the ministry has said by amendment specifically and in what the Government's response to the amendment is concrete. On the contrary, the amendment promoter is in a kind of replica, but in everything that happened later, he actually confirmed that my concern at the very beginning of today's session – what is the basic motive in this way of the written amendment? Since that's how it is, and since he gave me the right to do so, I hereby withdraw what is in good faith and trust, a little apology in advance. By giving me the right, it shows that no apology of this kind has actually been earned, and since it shows no interest in the amendment itself, but for everything I had hoped it might actually not want to do and work today, I call on the MPs that since we have already made all the arguments according to the amendment, in particular, we continue the debate in today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8916	Thank you. The word is Žika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8917	Thank you. I would also like to advertise this classic example that even if you want to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can't get quite a word right behind that MP who spoke, whose mistake you're actually trying to point out. I want to advertise the violation of Rule 107's Rules of Procedure for one simple reason because this has already become common, as we all said here, who took the word, but eventually continued with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. I will only remind myself that one assembly day costs citizens of Serbia about 50,000 euros and that we have lost hours and days of conversations that have absolutely nothing to do with the topic, nor is there a desire to introduce some order when we talk about the issues. I'm not a member of the SNS, nor am I a member of that party that gathered all academics, and after 2000, I gave the prime minister someone who had a higher level of expertise. However, I just want to say one thing, it's very symptomatic that when someone starts to have results with us, when it comes to a young man, when it's a man who's proven himself and when in just a few months he's shown that he can deal with all the hardest things, that always finds those who are willing to stumble on him many, and always calling on what's good for the citizens. Unfortunately, this is also the case with Nebojsa Stefanovic. It's obvious that whenever a man shows the results, there will always be those people who want to stop him. I ask you, President, that we do not allow such things in this house and show that the dignity of the congregation is above all else, no matter which party it comes from or what it says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8918	I agree with you. I don't think any of the presidents have hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, which you pointed out in your statement that it was the MPs who did it, no matter who it was. Do you want us to vote on this breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Zika Gojkovic, from the place: No. Otherwise, I will accept suggestions from both MPs. We're moving on to the next amendment, because I think it's quite enough for two and a half hours to discuss one amendment. So, your MP group asked for it. The People's Ambassador Mirko Chikiriz submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has an amendment to Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8919	Thank you, Chairman. This is not an amendment that was focused on the Ministry's interest in these amendments and additions to the law, but I think it will probably be in some part of the Ministry's interest when a new Higher Education Act is being established. I, by amendment, have proposed that Article 1 amend the former Article of Law, paragraph 1 point 5, to change and to read - that in the case of university autonomy, in addition to the choice of teachers and associates, the right to do so is also prescribed in the election of other staff. I also suggested that item 8 should be changed in the same article – the right to exercise property rights and the use of property in accordance with the law, not just the use of property. The ministry properly invited all applicants to the meeting of the committee of directors. I, on account of other obligations, could not attend that session and explain in more detail the basic idea of submitting this amendment. The Ministry did not accept an amendment explaining that, in a specific system of higher education, it is not justified that, in addition to the choice of teachers and associates, the choice, i.e. the reception in the working relationship of other staff, is particularly regulated. This may have some logic, but in parallel legislation, we have cases where it is prescribed in university autonomy, it is known that, in addition to the choice of teachers and professional staff, it is necessary to accept in a working relationship and many others, not teaching staff, from guards, auxiliary staff, people who are employed in accounting, finance, auxiliary services, etc., so that it exists in many legislation, and it is not aside that there exists in this, regardless of my opinion that the excess head does not hurt. The ministry did not respond at all, nor did it comment that I asked for the right to exercise property rights in the broadest sense of the word. For what? The previous ministry, when it passed the law, the accent put on, I think, universities where it is the founder of the state and where the university is due to the funds established by the University of State Property, the university appears only as a user. This is a question not for you, Minister, as someone who comes from the scientific field, but above all, for lawyers in the ministry. That's quite all right, but we also have at the university, which was founded by the state, by means of state property, and we have intrinsic assets, foundations, everything that's special property of the university. For this reason, with the property owned by the university, the university should be given the right to use property in the broadest sense of the word, especially at private universities. A private university, anyone who establishes it, a physical person, a group of natural persons, a legal person who has nothing to do with the state, must have what exists since Roman law. So there must be, in addition to the rights of use, which the Romans called ius utendi, the right to harvest fruit, for example, renting, benefiting, etc. the right to alienation, to destroy, to make available their assets in the broadest sense of words, as the Romans called ius abuttendi. Such solutions exist in parallel legislation. They, above all, relied on what exists in practice, I say, first of all on private universities, so prescribed by the Law on Higher Education of Montenegro. I think since you refused the amendment, you should think about it in a year, when the new Higher Education Act comes, about everything I'm talking about. Let's say, in the use of property rights, if it's private property, we have the right to property, the right of the university to buy, to sell, to rent, to exercise the right to compensation for damages. We have a number of other rights stemming from this general property law. Then we have a series of non-proprietary rights: copyright, the right to seek a certain act, the right to compensation for damages. We have a series of contractual rights: the right that comes from bond relations, etc., which can't stand under what currently stands in the Law of Use. It's just one segment of general rights that should have, above all, a private university, as well as state universities that have their own special property. For this reason, and because of the fact that absolute rights are acting on everyone and that everyone has absolute rights to be treated as such, I think that if the ministry did not go with this logic, probably not consulting the lawyers, then it is necessary to consult in the drafting of the next law, which the Ministry announced. This was a very affirmative way for what exists now in practice, to live in legislation. This right of use, despite being a good assessment of the state of the university, where universities are not the owners of their property, because it was founded by the Republic of Serbia, is a relic. At the same time, by not recognising these rights normically, and there are in practice at private universities, a relic of some past times, where no one could own anything, only the state was the owner, so it could give certain things to use, for example, such as building land or physical or legal persons. I missed the chance to explain this amendment to the board yesterday. I think, Minister, that with your associates, above all from the legal profession, you will have enough time to think about all this and that in the next text of the law we have universities that have their own property, which they have in their own way, whatever they want because they own it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8920	Thank you. This time has been from the time of your authorised representative. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8921	Thank you. Given that fellow Chikiriz has a more legal issue, than the issue that concerns the very essence of the member, which is a legal issue that causes certain controversy, I will first start with the fact that we in the SPS parliamentary group absolutely have no problem supporting anything that is progressive, and it is doubtless Mr Chikiriz's idea to give a progressive variation, as regards the working-legal status of employees at the university. However, these visions undoubtedly existed among us in the SPS parliamentary group. They were pointed out very clearly by our authorised representative, Dijan Vukomanovic, and these visions were still in the mandate of Mr. Zarko Obradovic, when he led the ministry. Therefore, we believe that this amendment has a certain prism of observation that can be accepted with respect. What, though, is controversial? It is disputed that the working-legal status of employees at the level of auxiliary staff and all those who do not represent teaching staff is not only regulated by the provisions of the Law on Higher Education, but also by the provisions of the Labour Act, the Law on Civil Service and Peasants, as well as by other positive legal provisions, so that, indeed, from that aspect, we should first see whether Mr Chikiriz's amendment is accompanied by other legal acts, with other legal solutions and systemic solutions in the laws which I have now called upon to even discuss the implementation of such a proposal in the provisions of the existing Law on Higher Education. It is doubtless that the member, which is proposed in the Law on Higher Education, is quite broad and allows for the possibility to take advantage of analogous interpretations and to establish a working relationship, i.e. regulation of working-law status with other employees, which Mr Chikiriz points to, but I am absolutely sure and, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I express my confidence that this issue will be far better and better-qualityd in the provisions of the new upcoming Law on Higher Education, which will certainly cover this matter comprehensively. By the way, I'm going to take the opportunity to point out, as the law is coming in some vision of the proposal, that is to say, from the city I come from, so from Užica, that's the minister and how well known, that we have a higher education facility. It's the High Business and Technical School of Professional Studies. We took advantage of all the possibilities given by law to enter the procedure of establishing an integrated university. In this direction, all the actions prescribed by the Higher Education Act were determined and implemented, even after the elaborates of your ministry decided to propose to the RS government a decision on the founding act of an integrated University in Uzic. In this direction, I will take the opportunity to ask you to respond at least to the Uzicans and all of Western Serbia, to all citizens and especially to the students, or to those members of the youngest population, who expect to receive academic titles at that very university, when can we expect the Government to act according to this proposal, or when will this founding act be adopted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8922	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the RS. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8923	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Mr. Verbic and his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our amendment is very similar to the amendment submitted by Mr. Zoran Zivkovic and Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. I hope that the debate will not be similar, though the minister has given the same explanation for not accepting our amendment. I have to, Mr. Verbich, admit that I really don't understand that logic – we agree, but we don't accept it. If you could explain a little bit more to us, because we really want to understand the reasons why you don't want to accept our amendments, which would make the entire system of higher education incorporate the principle of academic integrity. You say this is the subject of the Fourth Basic Law on Higher Education, not Article 6. which you are changing to Article 1. However, in article 6, you are already repeating something that exists in Article 4 of the Basic Law, which is the principle of openness to the public and citizens. So why couldn't Article 6 find the same formulation, as in Article 4, if the formulation, which obliges universities to respect the principle of openness to the public of citizens, exists in both members? However, all of us can accept this argument that the real reasons why you do not accept the amendment is that it is technically not the place in these amendments and the additions of the Law, you are offered to propose a brand new law that would intervene in the way you say you should and should now intervene. I am indeed at one point, and I think other MPs, as well as citizens, who may have watched the transfer, thought that you would agree to something like that, because I truly believe that your personal academic integrity obliges you to accept something like this and this offer, which you first say was acceptable, accept. However, you refuse and that, all the time saying that your personal position, what I believe, and the government's position, which I don't believe, is such that you feel that it is necessary to integrate the principle of academic integrity into our higher education system. Mr. Becic, I'm now using the time of my authorised representative, what I'm using more. I think what we could hear during the debate on the amendment from Mr. Zivkovic and Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic actually points to the real reasons why you can't accept this amendment, which is why you can't accept that the law is changing in that section relating to academic integrity, because the SNS MPs on this amendment and on the principle of academic integrity say that he is not meaningful, that he insults the academic community...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8924	Miss Jerkov, please don't open a circle of replicas. You're talking about the amendment. Don't come back. I won't let you go back to the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8925	What won't you allow, Mr. Becic?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8926	Please don't open a new circle of replicas. You're talking about your amendment, don't go back to the amendments and don't talk about other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8927	It is the same amendment, submitted by the peoples by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8928	Please, because I will not allow it, I will not allow this debate on this amendment to turn, as the previous one, so I will use the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8929	You don't have to allow it. I will coordinate my presentation with your recommendations, but this will not change the fact that Mr Verbic provides arguments that are not in line with what the MPs say, which only determines us in the opinion that his position is not the attitude of the RS government. Mr. Verbić, when you spoke, not about the previous amendment, but about someone else, you said that you thought that some amendments would be accepted, so they weren't accepted, please don't deal with the brakes again, the mysterious ones, but who's stopping you from accepting the amendments that you want to accept, which amendments are and at all what it's about. Why is the principle of academic integrity important to us? Why is it important to put it in this bill and in the way proposed by a group of MPs of the DS? Because it really is a matter of personal morality, honesty, honesty, human integrity, whatever man is concerned, whether he will accept to defend doctoral dissertation or any other scientific work under conditions that don't even meet the basic criteria that this is happening. It does not apply to the principle of academic honesty only to mentors and teachers at higher education institutions. On the contrary, he refers to all the students. I said, all of us, to ignore who this is about, all of us, to accept Mr. Martinovic's argument that someone who is not professional in the given area is unable to compare two texts and to see that it is the same content, children in primary school can do this, all of it, and to completely ignore that these are plagiarism charges and to ignore that it is Nebojsa Stefanovic, does the principle of academic integrity mean that the doctoral dissertation is being defended before a commission in which only one member of the commission had the right, both formally and legally and practically, to be in that commission? Why, Mr. Verbich, are you not answering that question? I really believe, without any exaggeration, that the failure to adopt this amendment in the day of voting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would be your personal defeat and not to adopt that amendment, precisely in the light of your integrity, your generosity, would mean that you do not have the support to implement the reforms that have led you to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There's been a lot of talk. There was talk of someone being a locksmith, so it didn't bother him to run the country. It's not a shame to be a locksmith, it's fair, but it's very embarrassing and very unfair to pretend to be a doctor of science, and that you're not. And it is a great shame and a very unfair political defense to the one who does it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8930	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8931	Chairman, advertised Art. 107, 108, and 109, because the speaker spoke about everything, except the amendment that she otherwise submitted. You warned her nicely, but she kept doing it, so you were obliged to give her a warning. Otherwise, its amendment, which is now being spoken of, is related to how the accreditation commission is financed. She talked about everything but that amendment. She was talking about honesty...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8932	You're wrong, Mr. Djukanovic. Read the amendment submitted by a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8933	In any case, she was warned, or for the first time, the second time you did not give her a warning. She talked about everything except the amendment itself, which is evidence, of course, of its unpreparedness, and I would ask you, since this evidence is an eclectic example of someone running an exclusive campaign and not being interested in improving the higher education system at all, as they were of course not interested when they were allowed to start institutions that called themselves colleges, that you would really warn her in the future and give a warning. I'm not going to ask the Assembly to make a statement this time, but it would really be the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8934	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. Miss Jerkov reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8935	Thank you. It's simple for clarification. Article 106, which obliges us to talk about the agenda point. Just ask Mr. Becic to inform Mr. Djukanovic that I was talking about my amendment to article 1 concerning just academia. There is also an amendment relating to how the accreditation and quality control Commission is financed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8936	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. I just did, I told Mr. Djukanovic to look at the amendment submitted by a group of MPs, including you. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8937	Let me first answer the questions concerning Article 2 so that we do not get over it without answering. So the matter is very interesting and we were certainly dealing with this. The first part of the amendment was not accepted because this law should not regulate the choice of other persons except teachers and associates. There shouldn't be another exception to the Labour Act, so if the Labour Act is regulated, there's no need for it to be here. As far as the second part of this amendment is concerned, it is certainly something to discuss for the next law. This time, it was not likely that any formulation of this amendment would have been fully in line with other laws, it was simply too much to take care of it with one amendment. But we certainly think about it. We had a question regarding the Integrated University of Uzic, the proposal still does not have a positive opinion of the Higher Education Council. So that's the current status. As far as Article 3 is concerned, I think we've said one enough on this subject in two hours of discussion on the amendment. We only had one question that was new and I think it's important to answer that question. The question was - who is it that prevents you from passing the members of the law you consider important. I think there is a very simple answer – lawyers. The fact that the task force thinks it's something good and that something should be part of the law isn't enough yet. Lawyers have to give the final word on the subject. As for government support, I think the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has full government support for everything it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8938	The word has been given by the head of the SNS parliamentary group Zoran Babic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8939	Personally, I believe that honesty is universal and that all citizens of this country behave in accordance with that honesty. Whether they're academic citizens or someone who hasn't been in a situation, a material opportunity to become academic citizens, but it is honest. Congratulations comes from home. Congratulation is carried out in conduct, everyday work, as well as in any work he is entrusted with. I can't just congratulate them on being doctors of science without being honest water installers, coffee cooks, drivers. This is not the way to degrade people and view them as people and citizens of other species, second order. I don't have any problem with that universal value like honesty being introduced into our society, but let's get out of here. Let's introduce honesty into this National Assembly. It will be easier for others to accept integrity if we leave. It becomes a bit degutant when, for a document that I hope this National Assembly will adopt with the will of the Members of the People, such as the code of conduct of the Members of the People, which defines the integrity of the Members of the People. Why is this document welcomed to the knife by those who are applicants of this amendment? Why were they the only ones opposed to introducing the concept of honesty into the National Assembly, which is for the integrity of academic citizens? Why don't they go away? Why do they not say, yes, that code of conduct of the Members of the People will define certain things how the MPs must behave, in accordance with honesty, according to that universal value. No, they're against it. Is it because of them? Or is it because of this political controversy, but they demand that congratulation for someone else? I think that's the wrong approach. I think that's the wrong principle. Therefore, because of this inconsistencies, this amendment is unacceptable for the SNS, although against honesty we don't have anything against it, but we are for it, but in a way that we're going to come from us. We'll start with the people who do politics, first of all the people who sit in this National Assembly room. But, no, when something should come from us – don't, it's painful, it's humiliating democracy, we'll do it easier with someone else, it'll be easier for someone else to do it. No, gentlemen, we'll start from here. Honesty is universal value, we advocate honesty, honesty is something that is worn from home, and in education, you are born with honesty, and you end this world's life with it. We are in favour of introducing honesty into every segment, and not only for academic citizens, but for all citizens, but, gentlemen, if you want something like this, you have to move away from ourselves, not against the codes of conduct of the MPs and the introduction of honesty in this House of People's.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8940	I thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Zlata Djeric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8941	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to report for Mr. Zivkovic and Mr. Pavicevic's amendment, so I didn't get the word, although I was in the system. Since the debate went very far, I took the opportunity to report on the amendment of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. In fact, by accepting or not accepting this amendment, this proposal to amend and supplement the law, which is really high quality and really improves the previous law, might be given an even more high-quality dimension. But what we're talking about here today and what we've opened up to a serious debate is a matter of honesty, not just academics, and apparently our society has become hungry in this category. Why do I think that this amendment could have been adopted, and I'm also agreeing not to adopt it? Because that category, the ethical category, is not prescribed by law. As the speaker said earlier, she must exist in society. We're not born with it. That's where I have to correct Mr. Babic. She's getting there. We're only born with four basic fears. So it's an ethical category that you bring into the academic community from your previous life and education, long-term education and education. It is too late for us to prescribe academic honesty in society without having it in all other segments of society and action and action. So now I will remind you all, as well as the public of Serbia, for one moment of honesty or dishonesty and remind the citizens of Serbia at all that honesty does not arise through the law and amendments to the Law on Higher Education. For our honesty in society, we are all responsible, as well as this home, of course, behind all of our few tens of thousands of voters behind each of us who entered this home. But when we talk about education, education as a system is the most responsible for the existence of this category in society, for raising this category. And she can't be raised in high schools. She is raised in preschool institutions and primary school institutions. Here's the root of congratulation. Of course, in the family, first of all. I'll have you back for one moment from two years ago. If you remember, and then we are, and I don't want to court the voters in this way, I find them very responsible for what happened, so, then we witnessed an unkind event in primary school education, when they sold or broke tests in eighth grade for high school reception. We were then prepared to depose the minister, who was least responsible, or at least guilty of what had happened. And the whole community and the press and the public got excited and upset. But now I'm going to ask the question of that congratulation. What about the parents? What about citizens who buy their 15-year-old teenager tests at the start of getting into some serious life? What kind of educators are they? Who are these people? Where's their integrity? What message do they send to their child? And what kind of academic citizen would that be? We have to imagine that as a society. We can't close our eyes before that, no matter what they are or aren't someone's voters. People do that. That's what citizens do. So, as a society, we must have a clear goal of what we want in our society to have in the future. We want honesty, not academic honesty, we want to be a society of decent people. I'll go back to the previous speaker so everyone can be honest and the driver and the shopkeeper and the coffee cook and the women from whom we buy at the market of some products. So we need to be honest people. It's being raised on a much lower level. It's the principle of a much lower level. That's the reform I was talking about in my opening presentation to Mr. Minister, and since he's a young man, I want more mandates because it's a continuous process that goes on in society all the time, and it's the right and only way to get a modern, rich and happy society, and that's our goal. So, congratulations on all levels. We need to remember all the times where we have shown ourselves as a society, not just us in politics, not just academic citizens that we are not honest and all the nameless people who have tried to do something unfairly responsible and under-informed, ready to accept that this process shows much more serious problems in society and much more serious early society and much more serious metastasy of basic ethical principles that must be legislative to us, which must be the legality of life in order to have a society in which our future generations, which we are talking about today, our academic citizens, our young people to whom we leave this society, are able to make Serbia that will be to their advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8942	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. What time did you use? As authorized. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8943	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister and the Honorable Guests, I think it is appropriate to accept the amendment of the four DS MPs concerning academic integrity despite the minister's failure to accept our proposal to introduce academic honesty in the Higher Education Act in the way he was proposed here. Let me offer you a few more things. So, dear Minister, unlike you, I believe that this law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education should introduce academic honesty as a principle into a system of higher education in Serbia. If you have missed during the preparation of this bill, the opportunity to introduce academic honesty as a principle in Article 4. ensure that this amendment improves the legal text and that academic integrity is in the higher education system.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8944	Mr. Pavicevic, let me just say it. You had 40 seconds left. I let you go for a minute so I can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8945	Can you check, 'cause I think I've got two minutes and 40 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8946	I've been informed by the service for 40 seconds. I let you go for a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8947	To adopt the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8948	The word has been issued by MP Borislav Stefanovic, head of the DS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8949	Where the government stands, I extend. If this amendment were to be adopted, it would be very good for several reasons. So, first of all, academic honesty cannot be compared to what we are talking about with the honesty we are trying to establish together in the National Assembly. Because, as my colleague used to say, this is the topic of the agenda and we're trying to do it here. Academic congratulation is clearly defined. It refers primarily to protection against abuse by individuals in the world of academic activities or in academic studies. So, the man who uses other people's work unauthorizedly, plagiarizes, prescribes, plantations, sells tests, deals with any activity, violates the principle of academic integrity. If it bothers you so much, and you all agree, then I don't understand why if you agree, why don't you just leave this here? What's wrong with who this calling for academic honesty can do something wrong at all? I don't see any negative effect on the adoption of this amendment. I'd like to ask my distinguished colleagues from the majority to explain to me why this isn't good, if you're already saying we're all for honesty. Otherwise, the congregation code of conduct also has legal standards, and it also has broadly set terms, but unlike this concept that can be precisely defined, this one in the congregation code cannot. That's the problem, because what's congratulation for me is not congratulation and for a respected fellow from across the street, in the Assembly, because it's not congratulation for him if I criticize the prime minister, and for me it's first-class patriotism. So, what do we do now? I have another request. An esteemed colleague spoke of something he had called for the third time, “conversation. ” I ask him to explain to me what this means, as well as the word "suspect" with lj. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8950	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov, according to the amendment. Mr. Stefanovic, you used the time of the parliamentary group? (Yes) The Master of Aleksandra Jerkov, by amendment, uses the time of the authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8951	Thank you, Mr. Becic. It's something Mr. Babic said. It seems to me that he tried to explain why the SNS did not accept the amendment somehow universalize this whole story and talk about such general human values, such as being honest, should be good, tell the truth, be kind, etc. However, this amendment is not about this, because it is not academic honesty which is also about honesty as such. It's very clear, and it's very clear what academic honesty is. Academic congratulation is based on the independent production of written works, as well as on the strict respect for other people's copyrights, and the most difficult forms of transgression of academic integrity are plagiarism and autoplagiarism. So, with some story of honesty as such, some universal values cannot be covered up by the fact that the SNS here prevents the principle of independent scientific work being placed as an obligation for all who participate in academic studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8952	I thank Miss Jerkov, although you use the word SNS. You can't put MPs' discussions as if it were an attitude, but well, it's not worth explaining with you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8953	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Chairman, I have already reported to this member, following an amendment that caused a heated debate, such a mess involving various academic citizens and various professors. After all these discussions, the only thing I'm glad I'm not a professor. The way this debate has been conducted for me suggests that I can rightly be concerned about the future academic education of our high school students and our students. So many differences were expressed, so many professors were biased, that everyone more defended their knowledge, not their calling, but defended their political party and their political leaders. With that in mind, I'm making a difference between knowledge and calling. I wish there was a commission, which, of course, can't be parliamentary, that's what teachers have to do with each other. This is not the Serbian Academy of Science, not only come here from university professors, doctors and lawyers, there should be workers and peasants in far greater numbers, housewives, they should even be disabled, people who do not even have basic physical conditions to follow the session, so they should have certain help.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8954	Mr. Risticevic, I ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, to respect every MP of the people and not to use, as I warned my colleague Jerkov, I ask you to speak of the amendment of what is similar to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8955	I'm talking about the amendment, far more than others have said. I have the right to make an introduction, to get to that academic congratulation, to get to those citizens and citizens who are mentioned. I have the right to say that this academic honesty has the right exclusively to be solved by teachers among themselves, at universities, scientific gatherings, etc. As far as I'm concerned, I'd confess to them all the calls and knowledge that would memorize the headlines of all their scientific papers that were published or the doctoral dissertation. I wouldn't ask the question of their diplomas at all, just that each of them would say the title of the dissertation topic where he also doctored the titles of his scientific papers. That would solve a lot of problems. I'm afraid that this academic honesty, even academic literacy, wouldn't have gone far. I've been listening to some doctors here who've been talking - patients are looking over themselves. In the Consumers Act, one professor said - measured on the scale. So, measured on the scale. If someone who is academically educated says that here in the National Assembly - measured on the scale, then I can rightly ask a question, not academic honesty, but I can ask the question of academic literacy, or what will our students learn from such teachers, and what will they learn from such professors after this debate at this session about academic honesty from such people? I am rightly concerned about our future students, our future academics, watching who should teach them that academic integrity. Also, the term “citizens and citizens ” is used here. The government uses the term “to the public and to the citizens,” some MPs who are academic educational students use the term“citizens and citizens”. If the government uses the term "citizens", she thinks of citizens, if an MP who is a professor uses the term "citizens and citizens" then he thinks of a demographic definition in which he wants to determine that academic integrity, then that applies only to citizens and citizens living in cities. There are several terms, there is a village called Citizens in Montenegro, there are 23 people, there is a tribe in Montenegro called Citizens. When someone points out in the amendment, he does not agree with the Government to be open to the public and citizens, but to share it with citizens and citizens, then he does not mean citizenship, he thinks exclusively of citizens of cities. If we're going to open that academic congratulation to citizens and citizens, let's now, when the laws on subsidies, agriculture laws, etc. come in, that I'm asking for agricultural and peasant congratulations to be introduced into the law, to be open to peasants and peasants, and to respect the principles and rules of rural honesty, when there's already academic honesty to be introduced into the law because it's about education. Then, when the agricultural laws come, we'll have a nice way to bring in the country's congratulations. So when it can be academic honesty, there can be this other one. Then we'd come up with a lot of things. Peasant congratulation means next. There was a professor here. When we go outside, we'll see that the sun is shining and no one can convince us to rain. In terms of rural honesty, as well as this academic issue, we were convinced here that spring was in November. When it comes to getting, when these villagers from the city with their academic congratulations come to the country, then when we get to the peasant congratulation, it doesn't exist. Then someone convinces us that in November there was spring, so they withdraw subsidies on the surfaces of agricultural land that he rented for five years, in November 7th of 2007. Then they convince us that peasant and academic integrity can be that way when academics take them to be peasants, it can be spring in November. The rain of summer can fall, my dear professors, summer is tricky, it can rain a little bit, the city, it wants to kill crops, it wants to kill vineyards, but it can't be spring in November, at least not in Serbia. When someone takes the subsidy to plant a vineyard in the spring, for spring planting in 2007, and for a plot of 52 hectares as in Krcedin in November, it is a big issue of the individual's peasant and academic congratulation – how he managed to convince the government and the Ministry of the academic and rural integrity and prime minister's congratulation that spring happened in November, 7. Eleven, when it's almost impossible. He withdraws 525,000 euros, being rural and academically decent for three years, taking subsidies, stopping being a farmer and cashing in his profession for three years, his attempt to become a farmer. So we can talk about a variety of honestys, not just academics, when the following laws come about veterinary, agriculture, etc. Then I will insist with full right that you professors insist that the Assembly deals with your academic issues, that we also introduce peasant congratulation, then labour honesty, congratulations from housewives, etc. But I'm afraid that here we have an attempt by a former minister, the federal interior minister, who was then the prime minister, who, by the way, was told, while doing the post, killed the prime minister in a Member State, that it was an attempt to deal with the new interior minister, a republican minister, who does his job in a good way, and I...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8956	Mr. Risticevic, we are not talking about ministers here, we are talking about an amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8957	Let me just finish. I don't think it's the subject of the amendment, that it's not the topic of academic honesty, that it's an attempt to prosecute one minister over another minister, and I think it's the right saying, "that whoever ruled over others never corresponds to the authority of others over him."
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8958	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has been given by the MP, head of the SNS parliamentary group Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go. The time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8959	Although I think it's more time for a replica, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8960	Yes, you're mentioned by name and name, you can use two minutes. (Borislava Stefanovic, from the scene: It is not true who mentioned him. ) Mr Stefanovic, you mentioned the name Zoran Babic. You said Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8961	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I would like to ask you, Mr. Chairman, if you have finished this chat, I would like to speak, but I ask you to take care of the time for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8962	Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8963	For the past 25 years, we've been listening and seeing different definitions of patriotism, but this is the first time I've heard it's top patriotism, attacking the prime minister. I don't know how to define and what it is when you call for your country's collapse, when you call for a Ukrainian or Bosnian scenario, when you call for weapons, when you call for conflicts within your country. Is that patriotism, is that top patriotism? Let's give up such attitudes first, such calls, even in the heat of political struggle, and I think that's what patriotism will do for a start. I believe that patriotism is to create jobs, implement reforms, allow people in Serbia to live better, not attack the prime minister. Attacking the prime minister is part of the definition of politics and some political expression. I don't really have anything. Also, I'm surprised that someone who encroachs on democracy doesn't know what talking is. Is because he's used to listening only to himself and only to one side. I think it's policy's job to listen to everything. That it's the work of the Assembly to compete and compete. But also yesterday, and today I received messages from people from the good part of Serbia who did not understand one MP who spoke here several times "what for". I really didn't understand what that man was saying. What's that for, Mr. Becic? I'd like to hear the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8964	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I counted on the 30 seconds I lost, where I told Mr. Stefanovic your name was mentioned after all. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic, as an authorised representative of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8965	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, chairman, Mr. Minister, co-workers, I will and sincerely have a good will to believe that the proposings of this amendment had good intentions and that they wanted to fix something. I also believe that the ministry, or minister, had the authority to accept or not accept their amendment. But what I don't like, is that this amendment was used for something else, for one kind of marketing, for one of the two hours we spent here, not to say lose, to take it to the other side. In order to re-connect it to that academic honesty and instead of looking for ways to bring academic honesty into those frameworks that we're talking about that we want to really be at the level of honesty we spend two hours discussing things that we've discussed many times so far. I'll tell you some examples that can affect this academic congratulation, and I've seen them in many colleges, and I've seen them at Belgrade Business School, when candidates prepare their graduates, master's work, earlier master's work, give one statement, written where they say - I morally and materially answer that this work has been done in such a way and that way. That statement is put into work and there is no need for anyone else to think about whether they used other people's work to copy or not, they are materially and morally responsible for what they wrote. Let's make it one of the ways that we can influence the reduction of those stores, let's not say a more difficult word, which is not moral. I think that this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education is one step forward, that we should accept it, and in some future times, and the minister has said several times already, that it is part of the law that will follow in January, that it is a whole new law for 2015 we are making an effort, and in those moments we are going to make some new solutions that will complete this whole problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8966	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8967	So I call once again on this amendment to be rejected for reasons that we have already absorbed today, for reasons that, I believe, the amendment promoter actually agrees consciously or not. We had the opportunity to hear this when we noted that the introduction of new principles was done in Article 4, and that they were later addressed to the following members, as is now the word in Article 6 only on the basis of the introduction through Article 4. I think that's more than clear. In addition, in this case, the case of this amendment I have a personal objection because this amendment rules out the principle of openness as further pointed out in Article 6 which I consider to be a place in this law for the reasons of which it has also been mentioned today. For the very end, as far as the extremes are concerned, that in any way today, it actually makes it impossible for certain ethical standards to find their place in the law, I have to point out that it also doesn't stand. This issue is regulated in one of the members of the law, I think it's about a member of the professional authorities at higher education institutions. I believe that it is a member of 55th and that everything necessary on the subject set will be found in the last member of this article where this issue is being treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8968	Members of the 2nd amendment were brought together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution's legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Minister Verbic, the Honorable Guests, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 2 and I would like to use these two minutes to explain this proposal and try to persuade other MPs to vote for both our previous and this amendment. Therefore, there are some rules in the European higher education area concerning the degree of independence that must be linked to a commission dealing with accreditation and quality checking or an agency. There are recommendations that this should be an absolutely independent body, that people working in that agency or in the commission should be professionals and I thought that this amendment to the Law on Higher Education, we need to speed up this independence of that body which is now under our law dealing with accreditation and quality checking. I felt that this principle was very important, so to strengthen the commission until a new law was passed within which, hopefully, there would be a special agency completely independent. What happened? We are through this bill instead of strengthening this principle of strengthening independence or creating full independence of the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Check, we now have one proposal that further limits or controls or affects the actions of the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Check. The government's explanation says that this government proposal actually speeds up the accreditation process, but I thought that if we measure this one technical matter of acceleration and the principle of Commission independence, we should give priority to the commission. As far as the rest of things are concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8970	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8971	I'm done. If the first amendment on academic integrity isn't adopted, it's not worth each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8972	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8973	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Verbić, we have heard your argument in public hearing and when we talked about the Committee's bill, which is why you think this amendment cannot be accepted. I think you said yourself that as far as you're concerned, you think you should accept it, but it's not possible because you can't ensure the independence of an institution like this because it's impossible to start an agency. It is the same argument that you used and when you answered me in the principle debate on the question – which is why you did not foresee constant control, whether independent higher education institutions and higher education institutions and their composition meet the conditions that gave them accreditation. You said it was impossible to do that because the law prevents new people from being hired. To me, Mr Verbić, then points out that you are a minister in the Government who makes it impossible for you to implement the reforms that you consider necessary to implement, which only determines us in that initial claim that you or you do not have a plan for reforming the education that has been presented to you, when the MPs of the majority elected as Minister in the Government of Aleksandr Vukic, or someone in that Government, their legal proposals, when it comes to the laws of other areas, prevents you from implementing your reforms. This is not an amendment that came from the opposition MPs. It's an amendment that came from the accreditation committee itself. All those present at the public hearing were able to hear their own debate about what was created between the representatives of the Accreditation Commission and the representative of the National Council, which was amazing at the very least. It was the impression that the Commission really had no support in its work. The Ministry has been defined as treating the Commission in this way. If the reason is because of what you have stated, then there is really no longer any reason to sit in a government where you cannot do what you want or which prevents you from bringing your other legal proposals to the level of higher education at which it should be. Our students will have trouble recognising their diplomas abroad, confessing them. Don't do this to them, that's why they don't want to study here, not because someone points out that the police minister has plagiarized a doctorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8974	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović and Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr Branko Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8975	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, respected representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, honourable Members of Parliament, yesterday we held a session of the Committee of Higher Education when we discussed again the relationship between the Commission for Accreditation and the degree of its independent action in relation to the National Council and the Ministry of Education. It is said on the basis of the current legal framework, which is the Law on Higher Education and the Law on the Budgetary System, that we cannot give a higher degree of economic independence to the Accreditation Commission at the moment. In April 2013, the commission was admitted to the European Association of Accreditation and Quality Checkers of Higher Educational Institutions or shorter said ENKVA. That was one big score for our entire academic community. The next big step related to admission to a new European agency, it is the reception of the so-called European agency. ‘ECVAR’. EKVAR is the European Registry Agency for Accreditation and Quality Check of Higher Educational Institutions. The entry into ECVAR requires stricter criteria to be met. One of the parameters, which these European associations insist on, is this economic degree of independence of the Commission's work. During yesterday's meeting, one of his colleagues asked if we knew anything about screening by EKVAR? I didn't know at the time, but today I came to the realization that practically the ECVAR should decide on the admission of our accreditation commission somewhere in mid-October of this year. I hope we pass this test. What you would insist on today during this session of ours, these discussions in particular, if we could soon form an accreditation and quality-checking agency and I hope that in the course of the new Higher Education Act, which is to be adopted by the end of 2015, will keep that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8976	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir Karic. The government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been given by MP Ninoslav Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8977	Dear Mrs Gojkovic, the distinguished Ministers Verbic with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, the intensity of this amendment, as well as the amendment to one of the following members, was to strengthen the independence of the accreditation commission, more specifically the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Control, which would create conditions for its survival, literally survival, in the European network of accreditation agencies, but also conditions for admission to the European Agency for Accreditation and Quality Control in the Educational Process. One of the aspects of independence is financial independence. In this regard, we proposed that this member be corrected, so as to allow the creation of a sub-account through which the Commission's activities would be financed, and price setting, setting the price to go to the Commission's proposal, whereby the decision would be taken by the National Council, with the consent of the Government. Here I have to say that some good things have been done in law, such as the recognition of foreign diplomas, foreign higher education documents, but the point of this membership in international accreditation associations is to make one significant step forward towards the recognition of our diplomas, towards international recognition of our diplomas and thus, towards integration into the EU's educational space. Simply, this European space does not recognise the National Council as an independent body, an independent body, does not recognise funding from budget accounts. The European system of education, integrated, does not recognise this way or finance, or decision-making. So far, I'm talking about funding. A little later, I'll talk about the independence of the decision. The government's argument not to accept the amendment because it does not comply with the law governing the budget system is somewhat incorrect. You have to say which law, which member, why, how. After all, the public works, both on one committee and on the other committee and on public hearing, the minister said the reasons for this were justified, but there is no possibility that circumstances are such that it cannot be resolved and has promised to form an agency, an independent agency that will deal with the issue of accreditation and quality control. Now the dilemma is being staged. My colleague mentioned October of the month. I personally think that some things can be solved, some beliefs can be given to both the register and the network of these accreditation agencies, that within one year an agency will be formed, creating all the conditions for the international recognition of our diplomas, by first entering the ECVAR registry, which is definitely the most significant. In the end, it really bothers all the meetings that they are attitudes, I don't know if the entire National Council, but the President of the National Council and literally all the members of the accreditation and quality monitoring committee are totally opposite. He is pushing for one thing, they are pushing for something else, so the ministry, with all due respect for the Commission's independence and in some way the National Council should deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8978	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8979	Dear Members of Parliament, we have received the most amendments to this article of the law. Obviously, many of you, and among us who have worked on the bill, are bothered that we cannot create an independent body that would have done the accreditation of higher education institutions. We can't do that because of the Budgetary System Act, which, I suppose, is not irrelevant, has not been brought by this government, but by the previous one. There is an obvious restriction that does not allow us to do what would be the right solution at the moment, the only real solution, which is that the Accreditation Commission is an agency that would then independently make all those decisions that require of us international associations ENKVA and EKVAR. It should be noted that, despite several amendments that have not been accepted here, there is one accepted amendment on the same subject, which was closest to what is currently possible to improve the original text. That's where we went to meet the objections of the ECVAR, regarding the determination of the accreditation fee.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8980	Time, Minister. You've run out of two minutes. I'll give you a chance for some next amendment. The word has the People's MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8981	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I did not take the amendment's discussion of this occasion as so much as insistence on the amendment itself and its adoption, but rather as an opportunity to show concern for a particular problem. Otherwise, I believe that we have achieved a very high degree of agreement on the Committee on Education and Public Listening and at the previous session and, together with you from the Ministry, agreed that there is a desire for all of us in our society to ensure membership in international institutions for all our relevant bodies, that this is not at all controversial, nor can it be. Here is a concrete argument that nobody, including the amendment promoter, not only this, of all amendments to this article, has actually not disputed at any point, and that is the government's argument that the law governing the budgetary system should be taken into account. No one questioned that. On the contrary, some proposing some of the amendments to this article of the law have fully agreed. If we are all aware of this, I think the situation here is more than clear and it is clear that such an amendment approach will not change the situation, i.e. there is an obligation to act in a certain way. That's more than clear. One more note I'd have to give. I feel the need to do that. These are comments that speak in the direction of potential dangers to endanger our membership in these international institutions. In particular, we discussed this topic in public listening organised in this high house and then for the first time came a comment of this kind received by the Commission on accreditation and quality assessment. I must say, one more time, we didn't get any arguments at the time that spoke in favour of a possible threat to the situation in one of these associations by another association. We have only received two recommendations, or two proposals to amend our law, and to this day, even though we have explicitly asked for it, we have not received any explicit confirmation, because it is about recommendations that are binding character or simple recommendations, desires, loud thinking, that the situation may be made better. Yesterday, lastly, for information from our public, we discussed this topic at the meeting of the competent assembly committee and I believe in common and we received the answer that, as things stand by information that is officially available, nothing is really urgent and nothing is at the stage that is directly at risk of status. If so, I believe that we have time to work on a new law, a comprehensive law which has been a lot of words these days and I believe that it will only be in time ahead of us, together let's solve this issue in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8982	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Presidents, Honored Ministers and Guests, I think we should think a little bit more about our amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. It seems to us that the formulation that exists in Article 3 provides one opportunity to, I say, strengthen the problem that we have called a problem of exceling the higher education system in Serbia. Let me just point out. We propose that only the formulation in Article 14, which is actually changed, after heading 3 in the new position 4, should be like this – in the accreditation of the study programme of doctoral studies at least one reviewer, it is all right, it must be a teacher, scientist or artist employed in a higher education, or scientific institution from abroad, we support such orientation, which meets the conditions of mentoring on that study programme or mentor on a study programme under which a related scientific or artistic problem is studied, in accordance with standards, etc. We felt that it was necessary to give possibility to higher education institutions, which have specific or unique programmes of doctoral studies, that they might be easier to reach the peer reviewers if we know that in this area, which is the programme of doctoral studies, it is not easy or easy to do so. So, not to make sure that anything can go through right now, but just to be a little bit more careful about those study programs that are specific or unique. So we think that this formula of this attitude, as we have suggested, is much better than the one that exists now. Of course, a reminder, no academic congratulation, Minister, no change in this law is worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8984	The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8985	Dear President, Mr. Minister, I think we should reject this proposal from our colleagues and that the government has put in a good word. I really don't think we can provide one professor with the same teaching group from abroad. If we accept this proposal, then there is a possibility in related disciplines or related objects that there are many other things hidden there, as it has been until today. We know what kind of practice we have at universities. We're looking for the same groups. If they're not there, then we're looking for the closest. They wouldn't give a legal opportunity. What's suggested, I get the impression that we're opening up the possibility of corruption. It's one of the biggest problems in college. Under the wording proposed by his colleague, corruption was extremely hidden. It's supposed to have a December law. You suggested it nicely. We can provide experts, there's no problem, from every scientific discipline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8986	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8987	I suggest that the amendment be rejected for one reason. I think the formulation in the text of the proposal, which was made by the Government, is far better. Quality in terms of precision. Namely, it is about the accreditation of the study programmes of doctoral studies, the reviewers involved in the process and the formulation we received from the promoters, or the Government. The criterion is that it can be a person who meets the conditions to be a mentor on that study program. So, the principle that something evaluates a person who is only modest enough to work on it. The principle of doing things is provided for those who understand them and who are close to them. On the other hand, the formulation – the related scientific area is too wide and is losing sight of this principle to decide someone who understands well and who does so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8988	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8989	This amendment and amendments by colleagues Markovic and Ciric are similar and both have the same argument, i.e. that we believe that the involvement of a foreign expert is not necessary and guarantee that this will raise the quality of the higher education system. This could be the case only if we in Serbia don't have relevant experts or we don't trust them, but if we don't believe them, then the question is, how are we going to trust someone who came from the side, who was appointed by the Accreditation Commission or the high school institution itself? It opens up a whole series of problems. What you have stated in an explanation for not accepting the amendments, says – the amendment is not accepted because it is not in line with the concept of the bill, which aims to ensure the rise of quality in the area of higher education. If that is the case, if that is the concept of the law, why don't you change those provisions of the basic law relating to the obligation of permanent control whether the high school institution continues, after accreditation, to meet the conditions for which it was accredited? You know very well that the biggest problem, after obtaining accreditation, high school institutions no longer meet the same conditions that gave them accreditation. They don't have these conditions, they don't have these study programs, they don't have those teachers, and they can do it because they know that five years no one will control them anymore and that they won't be subject to review until the time comes for their accreditation again. You said there was no funds, no capacity. Why don't you, Mr. Minister, increase your capacity? Why don't you fight to be a means to it, because that's the most important thing when we talk about high school quality control? Mr. Atlagic will agree. Your answer will probably be that we have four inspectors for high school education. That's the problem. Why don't we have more, Mr. Verbich? Is it because of the ban on public sector employment? Who brought this bill? Did you object to the government against that? Did you tell the government that it couldn't, say, refer to an educational inspection? Did you ask these people to be excluded from it because we have a serious problem with the inspector's deficit for high school education? That's why we can't control the quality of our schooling. If you didn't say that, why didn't you say so? If you said so, what was the answer and why the ban on employment also applies to an educational inspection in which we have an obvious lack of people?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8990	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir Karic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8991	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Honored Ministers, Honored Guests of the Ministry, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 4. In that article, we propose two changes. First, the Government proposed adding a new position of 10 in Article 16 of the existing law after Article 9, which reads: "The Commission is issuing a trust on accreditation, i.e. a solution that rejects the request for accreditation within 12 months of the date of receipt of the regulatory request. “ It might be good for us to hear why you feel otherwise, but we believe that a 12 - month deadline for a conviction is unnecessaryly long period, to bureaucratize the accreditation process, and we feel that the deadline should be reduced by three months, so that it will be nine months. The government also suggested that following the 10th position so far, which becomes the 11th position, a new position of 12, which reads: "According to the decision of the 10th member's position, the national council shall decide within 30 days of the day of appeal." And here we think that the 90-day deadline is unnecessaryly long and we suggest that, instead of that 90-day deadline, the deadline - of 30 days from the appeal. We believe that these two changes can only be good, but, respected ministers, only on condition that you accept here today that a final principle of academic integrity is introduced into the system of higher education in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8992	Thank you. Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8993	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Verbic, the amendment is, you know, the same as the amendment of MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. There are several such amendments. I think that this is another member in which a large number of amendments from various parliamentary groups have come which, more or less, are the same or at least going in the same direction, and as far as the deadlines are concerned, both for the accreditation process and for the decision-making of the appeal procedure, among other things, because one of the basic complaints was that the procedure was too long. I would add again and ask you once again to tell us – which is why this procedure cannot be speeded up, which is why you cannot impose an obligation to once the accreditation and work permit is obtained again or continuously control whether this higher education institution meets the conditions for which it has received accreditation? Don't say it's because of the lack of commission capacity or educational inspection, because that means either you're not trying hard enough or you're not trying hard enough or you're giving your maximum without understanding in people you work with. Tell us what's going on with those two. Whatever the case is, you have DS support to resolve it, because these are serious things, especially when they come from several parliamentary groups like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8994	Thank you. By amendment, MP Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8995	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I support this proposal from the government. We who work in higher education institutions know how complex the process of accreditation and institutions of higher education and teaching programs is. It's a very big job, and that's why the government has given a period of one year to come up with a solution, because it's just physically impossible to do that job. So it's about accreditation of higher education institutions and, in particular, every programme. One college has more programs. It's huge material. I didn't do it, I worked at the college level, and those who worked in commissions know very well. It's just that it's physically impossible and I support this government position. I think he's completely reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8996	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir Karic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 4 by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8997	Mr. Minister, in contact with high school staff and on the basis of general knowledge, I've been thinking about whether it is necessary to shorten the time limit for obtaining a college accreditation permit. Since this is what Mr. Atlagic said and what you have in the name of the Government and responded, that it is a very complex process, I think it is a year long, but in these conditions it is necessary. What I thought about when I submitted the amendment and asked that the deadline for the appeal to be decided by the National Council be reduced from 90 days to 30 days. First, let me say something about a year. Anyone who wants to start a university must first of all, if they're building a new building to invest in buildings, equipment, personnel, etc. It takes a long time. Then he can lose a year in the accreditation process. Then an additional three months to resolve by appeal, while in addition to one lost school year after creating all conditions for work, to lose another school year because the university cannot start working in the middle of the school year. Now, someone who wants to invest in this, if they're doing well, they need to know that they're not going from the first step they take to starting a university until they get an accreditation license, and then they're going to have to start coming back invested. Why did I ask the deadline to be 30 days? Because the National Council doesn't have as many cases as our courts do. Very rarely, an object appears after a complaint that some university does not meet the conditions for obtaining accreditation. The subject should therefore be taken into account by an emergency procedure because it is of broader importance. I don't have statistics, but I don't believe that in today's conditions in Serbia, the National Educational Council has one, maybe two items a year, but surely there won't be much in the future. On the other hand, everyone has touched the section of the Commission's work on accreditation and quality-checking, of course with great respect to the work of a very responsible and complex job, a very extensive job that requires exceptional expertise, exceptional concentration, exceptional time-consuming, great travel and everything else, it seems to us that the Commission, with the fact of all previous ministers of education, had to react very sharply to the phenomenon that universities do not have accreditation. Several tens of thousands of young people have completed colleges with which they could not be registered to the labour market. There was also a need to amend criminal legislation, there was a need for increased supervision and educational inspection of both the MUP and a series of activities. I think it's something that needs to be done in the future because we can't wait for the next school year, and that you, as a minister of education, give future students a recommendation to ask them whether the university, or the university they are studying, has a work permit. If someone from a regulated country, the EU countries came here and heard such a statement by the Minister of Education, you are not responsible for it, because you have inherited the situation, but are responsible all the previous ones. If anyone heard, he'd cross himself with his left hand and his right hand. You'd ask what kind of state there is in an illegal university where I, as a citizen, have to think and ask myself whether or not I went to college at an illegal university. It's in normal and orderly states unimaginable. The person who receives that information does not care whose jurisdiction it is, whether it is the responsibility of the accreditation commission as it is in our case, whether it is the jurisdiction of another agency, bodies, etc., it sees in all this advocacy in the state. As a result, you ministers are due to initiate amendments to criminal law by the next academic year, to regulate this area and to be the most severely punished establishment, i.e. the work of illegal colleges. I think if the next academic year is met with the same condition and you are forced to make a similar statement that it will be one of your own and personal and professional defeats. That is why I know that, given the powers of the Accreditation Commission, I say, a wider action is needed, but there are you as Minister of Education to initiate such measures and to welcome the next academic season as far as the work is concerned in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8998	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Mr. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u8999	Dear Mr. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for accepting of the three proposed amendments to the NS One. All three of the amendments we submitted were to shorten the individual deadlines in the procedures. I've already said that we're a parliamentary group that will support these amendments and the addition of the law to the voting day, but we felt that the law would really be even more quality if these three amendments were passed. The amendment to Article 4 that I have submitted also refers to a reduction in the deadline in the matter of giving a reply to the National Council's appeal. It is acceptable precisely for the reasons presented by counterpart Atlagic, a year of time to respond to accreditation, but we believe that it is inappropriate for a 90-day period to respond to the appeal and that 30 days is quite enough and objective to respond to the complaint, given that all the necessary information is obtained in that year that can be returned by the National Council in its possible response to the complaint to the one who complains, because time is the only resource that is unpurchasable and unsuspecting and we always have to be particularly responsible with it. So, this law regulates higher education, we organize the most important resources that we have as a society, which is knowledge, the most powerful and most expensive resource, and by saving in some procedures, by saving time, we will contribute to that resource, the resource of knowledge being even more attractive, even more quality, and to being both a society and a state of attractive and those who can be interested in coming to Serbia for this goods, for knowledge as some of our future students.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9000	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? (No) Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Ninoslav Stojadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9001	Dear Mr. Arsic, Minister Verbic with his associates, as I have already announced the urgency of this amendment, concerning the Accreditation Commission, was to increase or strengthen the second component of its independence, perhaps even more important, which is the way decision-making and finality in decision-making. We know, therefore, that the decision on accreditation of higher education institutions is taken by the Commission for accreditation and quality monitoring, but those institutions which are not accredited can complain and, by appeal, the decision shall be taken by the National Council within 90 days, as proposed in Article 4 of the Law. That's how the proposer defined it. If we go back a little bit to the past and look back at the biggest problems, it was mostly a problem with the quality of doctoral studies, mentor qualifications, later affairs and subsequent quality monitoring measures, so-called surveillance measures. at universities and universities where the Commission's decision has been annulled by the National Council and approved by accreditation. With regard to this, it was our idea to introduce two-stageness, to return material to the Commission for re-determination, with the Commission's decision as final. The administrative dispute can be conducted. It is all clear and thus the other component would be provided and there would be no more obstacles to our entry into the Agency's accreditation register, the European registry. However, it is surprising what the Government says about our proposal – the amendment cannot be accepted because it is not in line with Article 16 of Article 11 which stipulates that the National Council's solution is finally on appeal. That's terrible. We want to change that. The second part – in addition, the amendment is not accepted for formal reasons, since it is not legal-technically correct, did not cover the amendment to point 2. Even scarier. I did not consult the lawyer, but I consulted the legal experts who gave me this comment – apparently the government's knowledge of the administrative law institute, procedural and material norms is not at an enviable level, because we extend to the first part of the amendment what the promoter has given, and then we introduce two-stage in the second part. It's all right. Finally, not to read everything I received from the legal team – therefore, the amendment intervention is in line not only with European practice, but also with the positive law of the RS i.e. the provisions of the General Administration Act, as well as the Law on Administrative Disputes. I gave this despite Mr. Verbic's smiles that we're still MPs here, we're not all lawyers, lawyers, so sometimes we have to ask for the opinion of experts. In the subsequent amendments, and I have prepared this, you will see that for an almost identical amendment, the government gives arguments that have absolutely nothing to do with each other. It is even said in one explanation that it is not the subject of the law, that the amendment would then be adopted on a proposal from the Committee. That's terrible. I say, here was the point of securing the Commission's increased independence. Unfortunately, that didn't work out, again the promise that the Agency would do it. But, I'm afraid, if it takes us a year for a sublegal act, how long will it take to make a decision and form an Agency? In the end, just to remind Mr. Arsic that this time is coming from a time of authorized representative, over two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9002	So, you've been wasting your time with an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, right? Yeah. All right. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9003	Dear MPs, I would like to comment on the amendments concerning Article 4 of the bill, when the deadlines are set then look too long, but bear in mind that before this draft of the law we didn't even have deadlines. Now we're introducing deadlines, introducing deadlines that we think are realistic. I don't want to put a deadline that's impossible to respect. If any of this turns out to be faster, and there is a capacity for it, we will gladly accept the amendment of this law and shorten the deadline. There is a need somewhere, i.e. the possibility of hiring an additional reviewer, which can further slow down the process. We think at this point these deadlines are the most realistic possible. Another comment on the call for students, i.e. future students, to check whether higher education institutions have accreditations or not. We are not the only country in the world that has unaccredited educational institutions or has institutions that just declare themselves educational, which are not. The most we can do at this point is invite future students to pay attention to it, to check whether there is accreditation or not. What we lack, which is a task for the future, is to crystallize the ranking of educational institutions where everyone will take care of what kind of prestige the institution has and take care of where it plans to study. Until we have it, we'll invite students to pay attention to accreditation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9004	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9005	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am inclined to discuss in particular this amendment, which is currently before us, as a desire to point out a particular need, rather than as a insistence on the amendment itself and the adoption of the solution contained in it. I believe I'm also facing approval by the motionor. For a good reason, I believe that once again, I repeat, by arguing on several occasions and at the relevant assembly committee, for several sessions, but also in public hearing, we understood what common desires are and what they want to achieve when it comes to all the status of the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Check. This concrete legal solution, i.e. this particular member, also has something to do with the issue. I think that a certain misunderstanding of a legal nature has appeared in an explanation, whether what the government has answered in place or not, for the sole reason of the confusion. There has been a change in the position of certain attitudes 10 and 11. Some are added, the amendment does not provide for those translated down to be included at all. Whether it creates cohesion or not, that's one question, but the essence of a proposal like this, I would point out for deeper reasons, is that this is how a two-stage decision-making system is actually not two-stage, and that's why the proposal is bad. I believe we can understand that too. Where a two-degree decision-making system exists, the final word is higher, or second-degree. So there's a possibility in practice that the second degree goes back to the first one to re-determination, but it's still known, in the free dictionary, which is older. In the event that the first degree repeats its original decision, it cannot pass without consequences, or it cannot be the final status. The second degree is free to change its original decision, which in practice is very rarely happening, you will admit, or to remain in your original decision and that is then the final decision. So where there's a second degree, to sum up, the second degree is the final instance. The only alternative is that the second degree does not exist at all, and this solution, I have to notice, already exists in the practice of some other committees, I don't mean the PKK now, in our general system, and the reason is for many problems and bad practice. Not only do I call on us not to accept this amendment, but I call on that, when we are on the occasion, these solutions where they are still in some status of the founding state, we correct so that we get the full and true meaning of a two-stage decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9006	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Goran Ciric. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr Blagoje Bradic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9007	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 relating to Article 23, which deals with the accreditation of higher education institutions, i.e. ministries, specifically, with the powers of the ministry that says, I will read to you the appearance of the members as it read – the Ministry proposes to the Government a higher education policy, plans to enroll students on studies which are carried out by higher education institutions and whose founder, on a proposal from the National Council, is under three, accompanied by the development of higher education, under four, the authorisation for the work of higher education institutions, under five, determines the content of the diploma and the addition of the diploma. The ministry suggested that this change be made and that it is – determines how diplomas are issued and the addition to diplomas, with the reason that this is harmonised with the law governing the protection of personal data. I have invested in the amendment, I think it is meaningful that instead of "confirming the way in which a diploma is issued and added to a diploma", it sets out the way in which a diploma, content and the addition to a diploma is published. For what? Because since the formulation determines the way in which the diploma is issued, it cannot completely replace the original term “containment”, then I suggest not to throw out the old one, but only to add to the existing formula – determines the method of issue. This observation is not just a stylish character, as it may seem, because the method of publication does not have to refer to the content of the diploma or only to it, so in that case the contents of the diploma can be differently considered, from the educational institution to the educational institution, and thus to introduce a colourful view of what the content of the diploma covers. It would be good to further edit it from one competent centre, and in my opinion, it is the only Ministry that practically implements state policy and through a question such as the uniformity of issuing a diploma. We are witnessing that as many higher education institutions as possible are accrediting. With this proposal, if the Ministry accepts my amendment, the Ministry will only edit what the diploma looks like, that we don't have one state economic or legal college that has one form of diploma, you have the same thing on "Megatrend" or some other private college or university, so that diplomas would be uniform, with equal content, if necessary, that's the ministry's decision, and the shape and size that diplomas are not diverse, but that those who acquire higher education have at least a degree in uniform. It was a basic idea, and I don't think there's any reason not to accept something that needs to be a decision and responsibility of the ministry, but to leave broadly that every university decides how it feels appropriate, and then to see whether it's valid or not. I think it's made sense that the Ministry originally arranged it and that there's no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9008	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9009	Since these remarks apply to some other amendments, the content, so it must be regulated by law and that is the request of the trustees. So only when we can define it by law will we be able to put the content itself in this article. That can't be sublegals tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9010	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9011	Just two sentences. If it's as you say, I'm not a lawyer, I guess the lawyers are suggesting, then at least in a member, note that this will be governed by the Personal Data Act. This is how it stayed open and unsaid. This is open and unspeakable. It has to be arranged, it has to be defined by law, but we will not write to write – legal formulation until the law is passed. There's lawyers. Make it clear to people, that there is no misunderstanding in determining what a diploma will look like and what it contains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9012	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9013	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I think in reading the amendment you said Alexander Jerkov or so, I suppose it applies to me. This amendment applies to something submitted by MPs from various parliamentary groups, some among them MPs belonging to the SNS Group, among other things, is one of the things that we were in public hearing about, when this law was still in the draft stage of a rather lively controversy. It's a master's degree study. You said the opinions on them were shared, which is not true. True information would have been that only you were to introduce masters of professional studies, and all others present at the public hearing were against it, including rectors of some universities who could make a lot of funding out of these professional masters, since in their composition they had colleges that had this type so that they could enroll a large number of students precisely on these master vocational studies. However, despite the fact that both MPs, and rectors, and CONUS, and the National Council, and all who participated in this were against the introduction of masters of professional studies, despite the fact that you lacked a master of professional studies did not list as one of the basic problems in higher education with us, and despite the fact that it is quite obvious that we, as a country and in our system of education, cannot organise basic vocational studies, not master studies in a satisfactory way. You still define yourself that in those first most important amendments to the Law on Higher Education, you find places to introduce masters of professional studies even though you have found no place to introduce principles of academic integrity or to introduce an obligation to constantly control the quality of work of higher school institutions after obtaining accreditation. I think you owe us an answer to the question – why is that? Which is why you think it is in our country's interest to finance the education of a master expert who will have no place to work because Serbia has no industry and no economy that could accompany the existence of a master of professional studies. You say it exists in a certain number of European countries. I am glad that you gave up the incorrect explanation that this is an EU request, because in most EU countries there are no such studies. It is true that such studies exist only in those EU countries that have a highly developed industry, which have companies, which have co-operation with universities and universities because master vocational studies mean education for such a narrow range of topics that these people really school for certain jobs in line with the needs of companies that work with high school institutions. Since there is no industry in Serbia, there are no jobs where these people could get jobs, it actually means that we are training a whole group of people who are trained for jobs that don't exist. It's not just industry or economy, it's about the very well-planned social services that exist in those countries. That, as you know, is also not the case with us, we have this famous ban on public sector employment. Once again, please consult Mr. Zlatibor Loncar in such a way that he tries to bypass the application of the law on employment in the public sector, as he said so here in the Assembly, and in any way try to apply it to your ministry and your area. Explain to us why a master of professional studies is being introduced that absolutely does not need to exist in Serbia. If they're going to try to provide some general level of education, expand education, so to ignore that problem that I'm talking about right now, then it's not going to be a master's degree study anymore, it's going to be some bad copy of academic studies, which not only will confuse students, but it'll also cause a general disturbance in the labour market and create a strange parallel system in a highly educated system, which I don't think will lead to anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9014	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word? The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9015	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, members of the ministry, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, before I make an argument that this amendment should be rejected, I would like to commend the Minister of Education as well as members of the ministry on their engagement, for active participation in the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development. Thank you for everything. We had a good, reasoned discussion. You've answered all the questions we've asked. What's good is that we got all the material to change the Law on Higher Education on August 1st, so we had time to prepare ourselves so thoroughly. Of course, I'm going back to the amendment, just for a little while, I don't think these praises are on the loose, and our citizens need to hear it. Otherwise, I am also a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development. I will make my arguments as to why the amendment to the 6th Amendment of the Higher Education Act should be rejected. As we know, we have our education strategy in the Republic of Serbia by 2020. The strategy provides for a master of professional studies. That's one reason, not only. What is good, and I know because I am on this committee, that a plan of action is being prepared to implement this education strategy by 2020, along with all the good laws that await us in the future. To mention only this is the Law on textbooks, the Law on the Foundations of the Education System. The next reason is because in many countries of Europe we have this practice. In order not to repeat myself, we heard in the principle debate from distinguished professor Ljubisa Stojmirovic, who are all countries. It's not just some countries, it's a large number of countries in Europe. Furthermore, we intend, of course, to have our economy and economy go with the upward trend, and then we will also need such educational profiles to be educated for certain expertise. This is just one possibility we'll have in this law. Of course, these are the first steps, more comprehensive changes are waiting for us in a law that is just coming to high school. What I have to deny, I'm sorry to say, that the distinguished representative, the colleague has come out to hear the denial, I have to say that it is not true, at least, to say, that it is not true that all members of the Committee at public hearing or on the Committee have been against the introduction of this kind of education. I am among them alone, and among them I know even more fellow Members of the People from the Committee who did not give such opinions. The next amendments concern similar issues where there will be similar arguments for their refusal. From the very above, I believe that this amendment to the 6th Amendment of the Higher Education Act should certainly be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9016	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9017	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Especially after the amendment and argument that we were able to listen to today, and I think we could hear the exact same argument during the debate in principle right here. First, I would take the opportunity to refer to the words of a colleague who is herself a member of the committee responsible. I am able to quote what was controversial in the argument of the amendment promoters, and these are literally the words that, all who participated in the public hearing, were against the introduction of a professional master. That really doesn't stand. Could all those who responded to the word on the specific issue of the agenda in public hearing have expressed disfavor, could not swear, but that all the members of the Committee who were present and participated in the public hearing were against not standing. You've heard one downright earlier, the other during the debate in principle, I'll take the opportunity to plead on my part. I haven't been loud about something like this, I'm trying to access the whole open heart problem, I've been thinking about what I could possibly think about and from what I'm about to tell you, honestly, I haven't gone any further, and that's how I'm even looking at the need for a situation where some new level of study is being introduced. Any new level of study. Just as an opportunity for further knowledge, for additional education, for further training against which I personally have absolutely nothing, and I believe if we look at the thing from that perspective, there will be no one else. What's wrong with more knowledge, more education, more specialization, more training and personal and professional? Absolutely nothing, so that motive is not controversial, it can't be. What was potentially controversial was that we heard as arguments against the introduction of this type of study, the vocational studies in the second degree, essentially consisted of two arguments. And then we heard a little before, during the reasoning given by the amendment promoter, the first refers to a lack of personnel space, or jobs for those who will complete the professional master's studies. If we set things up like that, and we're aware that professional masters are studies, a simple extension of basic vocational studies, so the studies that already exist in our system, that live and against which nobody has anything, does that mean that if the problem is the lack of jobs for the simple extension of studies that already exist, then the same argument applies to those studies in its basic form? Does this mean, then, that the amendment promoter indirectly suggests that we abolish vocational studies as such? I'm sure that's not the case, I'm sure we just didn't get enough arguments when we decided to call her and put her in an official statement. I think that argument definitely doesn't stand. You heard why. The second argument referred to the potential danger of creating confusion. The confusion between the newly introduced professional master and the already existing academic master. Personally, I believe that as far as the law is concerned, things are more than clear, that the space for confusion is gone, the law does not treat these two study programs in the same way, on the contrary, very precise in each member is the real difference between them, not the exact same name, the academic master is called master, the professional master is called professional master. There's no termological confusion. Can it come in the heads of employers tomorrow? It's possible, it's never known, but then it's something that goes straight to the employer himself, whether he's going to want to hire an academic master and make a mistake, for that he's going to have to bear the consequences himself. So that there can always be some confusion, we have more than enough examples in practice. Now, from the introduction of an academic master to the present day, I believe that each of us has met dozens of times with people who simply can't understand the difference between a former master and a master, and in the meantime, they'll probably be while the world and the century are, and that difference is certainly not the problem of indeterminateness, inaccuracy of the law. The law makes a very clear distinction, and it does not exist, but it is as far away as it was popular to say in some years of political practice for us, “as God and a hatter,” you remember that popular metaphor, it is a huge difference so some people still don’t understand it. Whether people who may not understand the master or the professional master will appear, it is possible that they will, but it is not a lack of law. The lack of law would be viewed only and exclusively in the fact that the law treats them in the same way, that the law is a source of confusion, and that is not the case. So, once again, more knowledge, more training, more acquisition of new abilities and skills, both personal and professional experience as a positive thing, as a good intensity and in line with that as a principle of support, I do not share concerns about the introduction of a professional master, and I do not think it should be deleted from the new legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9018	I thank Word has Minister Srdjan Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9019	Dear Members, I think this has been a very quality discussion, such as a quality discussion before, and I think we understand quite well and as to the reasons why it should not be introduced and why a master of professional studies should be introduced. One thing that may not be explained, I want to make it clear. Type arguments - this is what the EU asked us to do, so we do not stand, and if they have ever been used, they are not used properly. The European Union is asking us nothing about this. This is how by introducing a master of professional studies, we fulfill what we ourselves have drawn in our education development strategy. In the types and levels of education there is also a master of professional studies. This way we're just opening up an opportunity for such programs. I'm not saying that we need them, we don't say that at all costs we should have a lot of these programs. If someone proposes a good program, if better quality standards of such a study programme are created, we don't want an excuse for why it can't be realised as law. The law allows it, and then it's up to high school institutions to build a good program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9020	Thank you. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9021	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry, as per the amendment, I thought it should be over and then the minister answers, but you're quite right that you gave the Minister your word, and I'm actually going to look back at the discussions of my predecessors about this amendment, since our MP group, Mr Stojadinovic, my colleague, and I have submitted a similar amendment, and it concerns the discussion of my colleague and colleagues before the discussion of the minister. Namely, an esteemed colleague said, speaking of this amendment, that she thanked the minister for coming to the board and participating in the committee's work. So it's the minister's obligation. Mr. Arsic, I even think you should have responded to that. So it's the minister's obligation. Anyone who does not understand parliamentary work and the division of power, committees, and the National Assembly control the work of the minister and no gratitude for the fact that he has come to the committee cannot exist, is obliged to answer the question whether and to what extent he has implemented the laws that the National Assembly has passed. The illustration that the disturbed relations between parliament and the government is the co-worker's finding that we got the material in time and thanked for it. The fact is, we're really getting late-day material, two before the session, but it would be normal if we got material for a session like this in time. A reference to what my colleague said. He says that the new level of study means nothing and that he can only mean one new quality. It's not like that, pal. Something new, something that doesn't belong to our social system, values of the social system, can devalue what we have. You can't say that the expansion of private higher education "private colleges" has brought some quality to state Serbia. In some cases, yes, but in some cases not. We talked these days about devaluation of the calling and the magistrates and the masters and the doctors and the fact that some have acquired those calls in a very strange way. The fact that we have new professional studies, or master of professional studies, does not mean a new quality. We may also have some masters behind whom knowledge will not be hidden, and it is possible that it will devalue the calling of masters of those who have acquired these callings in a completely different way. In that sense, this is a dangerous thesis that you said, in the sense that one width, quantity, leads to quality. My colleague, that's not true, especially in the area of higher education.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9022	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9023	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very short. I'd like to invite distinguished colleagues, who, by the way, listen very carefully, and I'm trying to respect everyone's opinion as much as possible, so that the better we can hear ourselves today. Not that it wasn't about the quantity that passes into quality, or the promotion of expansion of private higher education institutions, it wasn't about any of them, not one word, not one word. What I'd like to point out once again is that today we're talking about the need for further work, further perfecting, further learning. That is the basis of everything I intended to say earlier, and I believe that we will understand and in good faith agree that it is something that is only only positive. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9024	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir Karic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9025	I called earlier, so you didn't include me. I'm not in favor of this amendment. I wanted a replica of the previous exhibit, but now I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9026	I apologize, but before I started reading, I looked in the monitor, it wasn't there. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? (No) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9027	Dear Mr. Arsic, respected ministers with associates, in a debate in principle, I have already pointed out that, in our opinion, this represents the biggest problem of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. Here I think of introducing an additional degree of professional studies, master of professional studies. A lot of arguments were heard about it last time. I'm only going to try to point out once again the fundamental difference between professional and academic studies. Academic studies and within them master studies serve to give some additional knowledge to students, to train them for additional jobs, but also to prepare them for doctoral studies in different fields. On the other hand, vocational studies aim to train students later on for professional work. Therefore, the introduction of this degree is not in line with the very nature of professional studies and that is the most important thing. If you consider that there are specialist vocational studies, then you are quite the master of professional studies. There's more arguments. It's said that everything is precisely defined, there's no confusion about the name. There is, my dear colleague, an esteemed colleague, a mistake, and of course. The majority of employers are absolutely unable to distinguish academic and professional studies. When graduate academic students show up with 240 ESPB points, or credits, they don't know what it's about. It is even more confusing when those who have graduated under the law that was in force before 2005 also appear. So there's a big problem. What I pointed out last time I answered the second time, I claim that in a large part of Serbia, and I checked three districts, the inspectors are only looking at the number of points. For them, 240 points is exactly the same, whether it's graduated from old, graduated academic studies according to a new one, or it's graduated from vocational studies with a specialist. Inspectors absolutely make no difference. It's not that we don't have enough inspectors, it's that they're making a mistake. I am pleased to hear from Minister Verbic that this was not an EU condition. Mr. Verbic, I apologize for saying this last time, but I'm saying we have a transcript, that's what the president of the National Council of Professors said. Stankovic. I'm responsible for that. It's said like that. As for who was against and who was in favour, my colleague Rogic defined very nicely, all those who discussed, except for me, the esteemed colleague Stoimirovic, were against, so, members of the Committee, members of the academic community, rectors and proctors, members of SANU, vice president, member of the presidency and my little one. Therefore, things are not so clear. In any case, claims that should be released, the Chinese one – thousands of flowers etc., it is not that simple. First, form programs, accredit them. Given the large number of high schools on the edge of the accreditation threshold, what does the introduction of two or three new programs mean? I like it when the co-workers of the minister laugh. It means something's good. Thank you. What does it mean to introduce new programs? Does that mean we're reducing the number of teachers in a steady working relationship, reducing the criteria? Seventy percent teachers, 20 teachers. We'll get into a situation, that's another thing. There's no quality here. It takes more teachers to cross that threshold and there will be a critical situation again. All in all, I think this, with good solutions, is some that solve acute problems, some that are newspapers, nostration, I'll discuss it later, and this information system, the worst solution. The government's explanation for the refusal of amendments, since it is not in line with European practice in education, is terrible. The amendment is not in line, and I have cited in which the most developed EU countries do not apply these studies. The second thing, not in line with the development strategies by 2020, professional studies are something important in line with the strategy that needs to be done. I ask the question – what did you do with this 100 plus, after that, a month of strategy? As I recall, nothing was done. If the priority is to introduce professional studies from the strategy, let it serve you honor. I think this is a bad solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9028	The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9029	My colleagues and colleagues, the chairman, Mr. Minister, co-workers, this is one of the amendments that caused a lot of conflicting arguments, and where, I say, in the heat of the discussion, I don't want you to get the wrong idea that I think someone purposely wanted to cause a different interpretation, with the desire to justify their vision, many data, unconfirmed facts and, frankly, was hurt and offended by one human, proud and very important profession, the profession of nurses. At this point, I'd like to apologize to them. I'm saying, it wasn't the desire of those who mentioned nurses related to master studies. Even there was – what will be a nurse when she graduates from business school, will she be a senior nurse? I think it was all in the heat of a struggle, or conflict of opinion. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: I mentioned. I didn't want to mention it, but you said it. That's what happened. I think that this decision by the Ministry is in place and that it is normal, if we already have in our strategy this, if we have introduced Bologna and given the opportunity for Serbia, or the educational system in Serbia to be like education systems in other EU countries, then it is perfectly normal to allow the introduction of this master of vocational study. As for the public debate, I was one of those, which is what I said last time, who had a fight with a colleague, Domazette, and about these master studies. That's when I supported it. I'll back it up now. A colleague Atlagic supported it, but he said – on those who give consent, or accreditation, will be determined that those who run for these master studies must meet all the conditions that are important. As far as these European countries where the master studies are concerned, I read 18 countries last time. Now I'm gonna do it again. I may know them by heart, but not by order. It is the Netherlands, Germany, Finland, Austria, Ireland, Poland, Estonia, Portugal, Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, Luxembourg, Montenegro, a candidate country for an EU member country that, I said last time, has no master's name, but are some master studies, and Switzerland, which is not an EU member. There have been objections to this list, that there are not the most developed European countries: England, or Great Britain, and France. In my opinion, Germany is much more important and stronger in the EU than they are. What does that mean most significant? They're for one country and another. It is clear that European practice is what it is. Serbia has gone that way and is trying to bring its education system into line with the EU, although it was not a condition, it is not an obligation. Why did one part of the public have a strong resistance to the introduction of these master studies? To be honest, it is a market battle, a position for students, because there is fear of other institutions that these vocational studies will take over their considerable number of students. I don't want to doubt it's the only reason, but it is one of the reasons. I hope that the ministry has made a good decision and that this will have no bad consequences for the education system in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9030	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9031	So, very briefly, since I believe that we've been exchanging opinions on this subject long enough and that we're about to conclude that we've shown everything we've had. I believe that the only argument left is to further clarify the issue of future misunderstandings, i.e. some concerns with employers. I still think it's a question for the employers themselves. If they don't understand their diplomas properly, they'll suffer for it themselves. I don't think there's any difference and there's no doubt that there's a simple point. As we have already had the opportunity to hear in many discussions in the past 30 minutes, we have had such problems so far, without this law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. If all of the misunderstandings, which can come from the same number of points for essentially different diplomas, are the main problem, does this mean that we should eliminate the already existing forms of study that can lead to the same number of points for something that is essentially different. We'll agree, it's a very clear difference between professional and academic studies. I don't think it's a problem for the employer to spot that difference. If he misses to spot her, once again, the consequences will bear themselves. Two hundred forty points in someone who has completed basic vocational studies plus specialization and someone who has completed, for example, the bechelor academic program quantitative is 240-240, but there are certain jobs that require explicitly one, or explicitly the other. That must be taken into account by the one who is trying to find a human resources solution for those jobs. So there's no question of doubt about the question of points. That's more than clear to us. What else could be a source of misunderstanding? Perhaps just a name, the name of these studies, which I underline, the law treats differently, gives them a special name, name – professional master. If that is the essence of all the grudges, I think the proposer of this amendment could conclude that, in itself, it is not the basis for the elimination of these studies, as such, of additional improvement, as such. Perhaps the appropriate solution is something that would represent a satisfaction for the arguments it uses can be sought in the simple use of a different name for these studies, and that the space for additional knowledge and improvement remains. By the way, I don't believe that we've got enough good reason to erase this kind of study from the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9032	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9033	Thank you, Your Honor. Several questions have been raised regarding master studies at higher schools. My colleague Stojmirovic mentioned two topics. One topic that may be about the burning of the discussion and the fact that someone may have found himself offended by this discussion, but only because of the fact and the fact that we will be in this law. So, I would like dear colleague Stojmirovic to answer the question – who has more calling, or who will have more calling, a person who graduated from high school for nurses and finished master's studies or a doctor? So, please, give me an answer to that question. Who's gonna be taller in calling? I would like the minister to be involved in answering this question. I don't know the answer to him. So it's not about any insult. It's an absurd situation in which we bring our education. The second thing, Mr Stojmirovic mentioned some fear that he would lose students, graduates. I could counter the question – was there perhaps a desire for some to get postgraduate studies that they had never had before, and it was about higher schools? So, is there perhaps the interest of higher schools, which have little money and which have no problem lobbying, that a small-door institute like this, because, we'll agree, Minister, isn't this our priority in higher education? He spoke to his colleague Stojadinović – a strategy. There are a lot of questions that would come in line before master studies at high schools, which create absurd situations and threaten the bad situation in our higher education. We'll agree there's a lot of problems in higher education. This adds to the problem of higher education. And, if I can get an answer, it would be some authentic interpretation of yours, you're a bill promoter. So, how's the employer going to behave tomorrow when he, say, determines a manager in a health institution. Will the same treatment and position have these two titles and who will be in rank higher when it comes to pay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9034	Thank you. Anyone else answer for a word after the amendment? (No) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović and Borislav Stefanovic and together the MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir Karic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović and Borislav Stefanovic and together by the MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9035	Mr. Arsic, dear Minister Verbic and happy associates, just to take the opportunity to say briefly what the amendments are about seven to ten. Since we have proposed to delete a member who includes professional studies, it is also proposed to delete other members who agree with this member. So I don't think there's any need for us to discuss this any further. I suggest we move on to the next members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9036	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir Karic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović and Borislav Stefanović and the joint MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment together includes the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment is jointly attended by the MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9037	Like Mr. Stojadinovic, I did not report for previous amendments, as they all referred to erasing the master of professional studies. This refers to some of the things being arranged by the statutes of a higher education institution, we propose that they be governed by a founding act. It's just that the founder would have more impact on making some decisions than that is now the case. We have a chance to see the Deans in a very unfortunate way abuse the statutes of higher education institutions. In Novi Sad, we had a very unfortunate experience at the Faculty of Technical Sciences, with a dean who illegally changed the statutes, etc. I think the minister is also aware of that and that he was giving the final word in that whole case. Our suggestion is that some things are arranged by a founding act before the statute. We have numerous examples of such abuses. To prevent that, we suggest doing it the way we propose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9038	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment together are MPs Mr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment together are MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Milena Bicanin, Ljiljana Nestorović and Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9039	Dear Mr. Arsic, dear Minister Verbic, I am taking the opportunity to thank the government for accepting this amendment as well. The essence of this amendment was, as the promoter has decided, to allow teachers of emeritus to participate in the second degree of study, meaning in master and doctoral studies including the board of master's thesis, final works and doctoral thesis, but also to participate in the selection of co-workers and teachers. We thought it was too much of a burden for such prominent experts on the one hand, and on the other hand, we think it narrows down the space for the development and advancement of young people, so we eliminated the second degree and the election along with the co-operational titles, so now emeritus teachers can focus on doctoral studies, making doctoral dissertations, mentoring and elections in teaching titles. That was the point of our amendment. Once again, thank you to the Resolute Ministry and the Government for accepting this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9040	Thank you. Member of the 17th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stoimirovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Alexander Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the magistrate Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9041	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. This amendment came from the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. We talked in public about those academics who were professors having all the rights as well as teachers of emeritus. This later did not enter the bill when he appeared, so the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts addressed us with an initiative that we have translated into an amendment to make it possible. Later, the government defined itself not to accept amendments from MPs but to propose to the Committee to propose such an amendment. Now I'm interested in your reasons for doing so? Because in an explanation of why the amendment is not accepted, you say – the amendment is not accepted because under the applicable law there is the possibility that under the prescribed conditions every retirement professor can be awarded the title of Professor Emeritus. In practice, there are a significant number of cases where regular pension professors who are members of SANU were assigned to call the emeritus professor. If I understand correctly what you wrote here, just here, not what it says in your amendment, but just what you wrote here, you're practically saying it's less unnecessary because certainly many professors are retired who are members of the SANU, but certainly also teachers of the Emeritus. But what happens then? You then still define that the Committee submits an amendment that is very similar to this with the addition of one attitude, but if the difference is in that one attitude, then what you wrote in the explanation as a reason why the amendment's acceptance is not true. Then the reasons you gave us for refusing the amendment are not really the reasons why you refuse the amendment. You did not say that the amendment is rejected because it is incomplete or because that one attitude is missing, in which case we would be happy to supplement the amendment. No, you told us that they are certainly very often emeritus professors, so there is no need for such an amendment, and then you yourself propose a very similar amendment in which you only add to what we have suggested that the rights and obligations of the persons of attitude 6 of this article be governed by an engagement agreement for teaching. So you're saying that when you suggest it, then it's useful and meaningful, and when the MPs propose it, there's no need for that. Either it is not true what you wrote in your explanation why the amendment is rejected or your amendment that you have submitted through the Committee on Education and Science is as unnecessary as the amendment submitted by the MPs from the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9042	The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9043	Dear MPs, the truth is that the explanation is not very clear. In any case, the government decided to listen to proposals from a large number of MPs, with practically two important changes that were not common to all proposed amendments. The first is that the involvement of members of the academy refers only to the third degree and the second important change that is fully in line with other amendments in this law, to allow people who were not at the university but worked at institutes to also get involved in the realization of doctoral studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9044	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic, Dejan Capo. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society submitted an amendment to Article 17. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dr Ninoslav Stojadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9045	If, dear Mr. Arsic, we respected Minister Verbic, the co-workers of the ministry, had some dilemma here that the relationship was the strength to propose professional master studies, whether the majority was for one or another solution, there is simply no dilemma here. Absolutely all including the minister with associates were for this solution that in some ways the members of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts in the work composition were allowed to have the same status as the emeritus professors in one part. As a result, six or seven amendments appeared here very similar to that subject. I must admit that we, too, have overlooked one little thing, which is that members of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts come from both colleges, where they had teaching calls, and from institutes where they had scientific titles, so it should be agreed and added – which they had before retirement had one or another calling. In a way, don't damage academics that come from the institute. So, I can see that that was one of the reasons, but some of the government's arguments for refusing amendments are not clear to me. For example, all amendments are said to have already been chosen by academics to call emeritus professor, which is true, because a large number has been chosen so far. Our amendment was denied on the grounds that this amendment was not the subject of the law. In the end, everything is fine when it ends well. This amendment united the new amendment, united both emeritus professors and academics in the work group, so I am taking the opportunity to get ahead of SANU and on behalf of President Heidin, and Vice President Mr Rakic, who asked me to thank the government for complying with this proposal. They also asked me to thank the many MPs and presidents of the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development for making an effort to enable these academics who are retired to continue their engagement in colleges and, more importantly, work on scientific research projects, regardless of what the one-year contracts are about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9046	The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9047	Dear MPs, just to point out that the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society has submitted an amendment that actually represents the best solution and brings together the amendments mentioned so far. The government is making a positive statement, so we accept the amendment proposed by the Education Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9048	Thank you. Since the applicant for the amendment is the committee responsible, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the authorised representative of the legislator has accepted the amendment at the session of the National Assembly, so I realize that the submission of the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9049	Thank you. Dear Mr. Arsic, dear Minister Verbic, the essence of the idea for this amendment was that a little bit of the bill is being corrected, because we believe, and so are some universities, some from the academic community, of course, universities that do not have institutes, suggested, suggested, that scientific titles are not sufficient to qualify for these scientists, so prominent scientists can be in commissions to select teachers. This amendment was rejected with one little strange explanation that the applicant's intensity was to raise quality, which is definitely brought by scientific workers from the institute, but another reason to refuse – a law on regulation of scientific and research activity which was decided that the person in the teaching can be members of the Commission for Selection in Scientific Call. You know what, if university professors have the right to be on election committees in science, it's perfectly natural and it's regulated by law. They have, in addition to the teaching component, a number of scientific and research papers, qualified, bidding and everything else, but does not automatically mean otherwise. I've always been for a variant of an integrated system of institutes and universities where automatic equivalence would exist between teaching and scientific titles and where both directions would go. So, professors would have the right to write papers for scientific calls and the opposite, participation in projects, etc., but at this point, I think that what teachers have the right to write, participate in referendums, in selection committees for scientific calling, does not automatically mean otherwise. That was our remark. This is not an observation of dramatic importance, and it will not have any negative impact if people with scientific titles are on teachers' selection committees, and probably according to the 2020 strategies, this integration will be even more present, so this problem, if it is legally formal, will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9050	Mr. Stojadinovic, I didn't mean to interrupt your exposure. Just to let you know that your time as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group has expired and that now that you've used more than two minutes, when you're an applicant for the amendment, it's the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9051	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and also thank you for the discussion of the amendment's proposings, specifically on the words that there is actually nothing dramatic in a member of the law, or that there is no reason to insist on the amendment as such. What I would certainly take this opportunity to do is to thank the Ministry for finally having such a solution that rightly promotes, I believe, a shared desire, the long-standing desire of all actors in society, which is to achieve full integration between our science, our economy and our higher education. I believe this legal solution is in the right direction. We've talked about this for a long time. In our society there was such a solution through the Law on Scientific and Research Work. There hasn't been a proper day in the Higher Education Act, and now we're getting it. So, not only do I support this solution and this level of mutual co-operation, I also call on us to make the participation of persons from economy and science, who are de facto people with a choice in scientific calling, even greater at all levels of higher education and this relationship only stronger, and co-operation only better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9052	National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic and Mirjana Andric together submitted the 21st amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9053	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. It's the master's study again, so I'm not going to further explain, just please think again. We think it's a provision that will make it more damage than benefits we still haven't heard what it is that we're going to get by introducing them, except for a number of people we're going to be training for jobs that don't exist and won't exist in the near future. If these are professional master studies which are really a professional master of studies, and if they are professional master studies that tend to be something more, then it will be a bad copy of master academic studies that will only create additional confusion in both employers and those future students and will not contribute to what you say is the concept of law, which is improving the level of higher education.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9054	Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Milan Korac. The government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9055	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr Verbic, this Article 26 provides for the addition of several brand-new members of the law that speak about the creation of databases of students, teachers, etc. What again is strikingly lagging behind, as is the case with the obligation to control whether high school institutions meet the conditions that gave them accreditation is another thing that we talked about at the board's session. It's an obligation to create some kind of central register of teachers who would be in one place to prevent what's going on. Mr. Atlagic prefers to talk, he offers himself, I don't know if he will answer the discussion. It has been offered several times that I make up such a single base, if you don't have the capacity to do so, to prevent teachers from misusing the fact that this central base does not exist and that this is exactly how they allow universities to get accreditation and that after that, knowing that they won't be controlled doesn't meet the conditions that gave them accreditation at all. It was not possible for us to propose this by amendment because of the Rules of Procedure, because we cannot propose the introduction of new members of the law. I don't know why you didn't define yourself. What we have responded to with the amendment and received a very strange response, in this part where a new member of 97b is foreseen is talked about the data that colleges collect to their students, so it is said – to determine identity, pay attention, to determine identity are collected the following data – name, last name, name of one parent, by JMB citizens, number of passports by citizens, date of birth, place of birth, state, address of permanent residence, type of apartment, nationality, no declaration, marital status. Why is marital status important for identifying someone’s identity? So it's not about the social status of students, where marriage status can really have an impact on whether this student lives alone in the household, whether he has any supported persons, etc. No, you're asking the student to plead his marital status to determine his identity and our proposal to delete and not ask the student for that information which really, I don't know why is important to the high school institution, you answer that the amendment is not accepted because it is not in accordance with the law governing the protection of personality data. So you're asking the student to plead more than we're asking and yet you're saying it doesn't match. I don't know where the personality data protection law says that someone has to declare their marital status at the university they're enrolled in. And at all, what is the significance of that information to the university when it comes to his identity. For everything else, I agree, since there are further things that talk about the social status of students who are being written about the number of household members, maintenance persons, employees, income from household members. These are all important things, but for the status of students, but for the identity of the university absolutely does not matter whether this student is married or married, in which he is married. It is unclear why you are referring to the Personal Data Protection Act when we, by amendment, suggest that students give less data than you suggest in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9056	Just to let you know, a minute and 40 seconds is from the time of the parliamentary group because you've wasted your time as an authorised representative. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9057	Dear President, Mr. Minister, let me say two sentences, since, let me say, the president of the Committee has called me, I think the problem with this is really difficult. We agreed not to make a deal, but let me say it was a problem that Mr. Verbic inherited and he hasn't been back in two years, he's a long-standing one. We even appealed to the presidents of the neighbouring states. This means Republika Srpska, I say to the Serbians that we say so, and others, to help us in this sense that teachers cannot lecture in Republika Srpska and here in Serbia at the same time and have full employment, full pay and pension basis. It's not hard to determine, you know. I think there's a lot of it, but it's sad that high school executives are doing it. Imagine at a Belgrade institute that the director has been doing it for six years. Em, he's the director of the institute and another job in Republika Srpska and another pension base, and there's nowhere on the globe, so to speak. How many jobs our students can get, and our hardworking workers. That's why there's no promotion to calling, because they become masters, what I often say, the lives and deaths of regular professors. So it's really a difficult problem, but it encourages the minister to announce that the inspection will do its job. That's what matters. By accreditation we will achieve success, it's not a problem, but the inspectors have not done their job, I must say here publicly, that they control daily high school institutions etc. It is regrettable that we have 700 professors at the Serbian state level with high school institutions or institutes to teach, let's say with another retirement base, not only in one neighbouring country, but in two and three, and we have a teacher who teaches on three, four, five, and one in 22 universities, in Bijeljina. Imagine, and the legislator said – he can perform at his home university in full-time employment and plus in a third-party relationship eventually at another university. What are those Deans doing? There's a problem with the deans. Who gives them consent? Why? Is that what they do? And that's why I'm pushing for the state to control the dean's leaders and the election that she's giving one, I say, almost a third of the states should give advice and control what they're doing. What are the inspectors doing? So there's this problem in Republika Srpska, Montenegro and here we have it. That's a shame. And they say they are patriots -- yes, when it is necessary to undermine the economic system of the neighbouring brotherland and vice versa. Our young scientists... (Goran Bogdanovic, from the post: Kosovo is what everyone does. Yes, my colleague, yes, everyone does. I'm sorry, when you pulled me out, your authority introduced it, you know, and now we're fixing this. You'd better not take my tongue. It's hard to fix. It'll take another 20 years to correct what you've ruined in three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9058	Anybody else answer for a word? The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Anamarija Vicek, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national emissary, Anamaria Vicek.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9059	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians has submitted an amendment to Article 26, which was mentioned a little earlier, but from a slightly different perspective, and I would like to get a little bit into the details, as the issue concerns a very important issue, not only for national minorities but also for Serbia's entry into the EU. Namely, this member of the 26th member who edits records on higher education institutions, students and employees, not only teachers but also other professional staff and other staff in higher education institutions, our proposal is to introduce them, in spite of national membership, and native language, as well as the language in which the student, or teacher, listens to primary school, high school education, i.e. teaching staff and higher education. The first part relating to the data of the native language and the language of education of students, we believe, is extremely important because, as in the development strategy for education relating to higher education in Serbia by 2020, a great emphasis is placed on the development of quality of education. We all know that the native language, or language in which the teaching is heard, is of great importance as to progress in education or in studies. We believe that if we have recorded information about which language students attended primary school, or high school, we can also have a strategy, or plan, in case it is necessary, how to provide them with additional educational support. The second part of our amendment refers to data relating to the mother tongue, i.e. primary school, secondary and higher education studies of teachers and other staff employed in higher education institutions, and this is extremely important because this supplement creates broader grounds for the application of Article 76(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that the national composition of the population and the corresponding representation of members of national minorities, should be taken into account in the employment of state bodies, public services, autonomous province bodies and units of local self-government. In addition, the addition of the law proposal in this respect is necessary in order to fulfil the obligations of the EU accession process. On 3 December 1998, the SRJ confirmed the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, and the Republic of Serbia, as the successor of international legal entity and international documents, is responsible for monitoring the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe Advisory Committee adopted three opinions, 2003, 2009 and 2014 on the implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities by the Republic of Serbia. The third opinion of the Advisory Committee of 23 June 2014 contains 47 recommendations for improving the position of national minorities, and of 47 recommendations, several refer to insufficient representation of national minorities in the public sector. Our suggestion to record, and to make some more credible records, in addition to national membership, and to apply the records in the native language, would be the first step towards entry, in fact, the obligation that the Republic of Serbia has in the EU accession process. These are not, of course, laws that would lead to the taking of measures and the implementation of effective monitoring, which will also ensure appropriate representation in the perspective, but would nevertheless be the first step towards recording. The Alliance of Duke Hungarians is trying to do so and we hope you will consider this, since it is still not too late that you will accept this amendment because we think it is of exceptional importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9060	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a minister, Dr. Srdjan Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9061	Dear MPs, I think this is all about the form of a question. In any case, there is information about which language the student graduated from high school. As for the rights and opportunities of education in the languages of national minorities, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development is working on a strategy to develop education in minority languages and certainly all good proposals will be respected. For now, we think that this data is quite enough that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9062	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Anamaria Vicek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9063	Thank you. Of course, the national data is one important piece of information. However, we are all aware that there are families involved in mixed marriages. In Vojvodina, for example, we have a very large number of those, where children are registered by one parent and thus we have Hungarians by father, Slovaks by father. However, their native language and nationality are not credible in that case, and therefore we think that the records of the mother tongue, or education, would be of great importance. As regards the strategy for developing education in the languages of national minorities, it is one part of that package and we are of course trying to support the development of education in the languages of national minorities. However, we also know that regardless of what nationalities are, citizens of Serbia have a much better chance and should know and speak Serbian. So, we try to make sure that if students of national minorities enroll in universities and attend classes in Serbian, that they have to be given a chance to do so, and that in some cases language skills can also have a negative impact on studies, and that is why we still try to make these data appear in the records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9064	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi submitted the 28th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9065	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this amendment pointed out the possibility of further simplifying the procedure for recognising the high school side of the IA, or diploma, administratively in those directions that have been given in the light of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Higher Education. They were clear here because, in my opinion, one shift forward when calling for the establishment of a European higher education space, then the Law on ratification of the Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications in the European region. It was then added in the explanation that these amendments and amendments to the law allow shorter deadlines for the recognition of foreign diplomas, which should bring back our experts from abroad. I think it was also instructions to add to the explanation of all of this and the problems of national minorities and the problems that so far have national minorities with very slow, long, present-day processes of nostration of foreign higher education documents. Of course, this is not required decades ago, but it is proposed to be as an opportunity to give space to this unique European space process, to speed up this process as a common interest, not only for minorities who, for various reasons so far, in general national minorities, but especially in this case Albanians from Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedje, from the Presevo Valley, back not for years, but for decades at least, had no conditions to study at universities, higher education institutions of the state, so they also used these services in Macedonia, Albania, and traditionally in Kosovo, where there were no problems at all with the recognition of a diploma from the University of Pristina. When this problem came up, I was also in principle saying that the non-recognition of the problem, the non-recognition of higher education diplomas, left us with very devastating consequences that reflect on the overall social, economic flows, which, unfortunately, are also reflected in the emptying of that space. There has been drastic migration since 1991. The government, I repeat, was alarmed only at those times when the visa regime was threatened by asylum seekers from the area. Besides Roma, the largest number is from that area, Bujanovac, Medvedja, that they have sought asylum across European countries, because they have no prospects for employment, for normal life. They haven't been recognised for a long time, and people are looking for solutions. Now, a normal state would probably be worried in time to solve these acute problems of its citizens, but these, gentlemen, are too long for this situation to allow problems like this to occur in continuity and the non-chalant nature of society and states not to solve these problems, and then when problems arise, it is also asked for assistance from the international community. We've had a lot of situations like this. It's okay. If we want European integration, we should solve common problems together. I don't think this problem has been solved for too long. These are good suggestions by detaching this part of employment, that professional recognition, from academics, because, to me, it's probably the first burning thing, about the direct problems of citizens on the ground and the possibility of people working, to get hired after they graduate from college or high school. I think it's a positive thing. That's something to say goodbye to. But I think that there should also be hearing about all other variations and opportunities and practices that appear in the environment, in neighbouring countries, where there is political will and approaches even more effective ways of solving these burning problems and those concerning international contracts, agreements on the equivalence of school papers or higher education papers. There are very positive examples. I think it's our turn to look at such positive examples and to show a far greater political will to solve such dramatic problems on the ground, which directly cause departures. After all, we already have spaces that are ethnically cleared on the ground, whole spaces that are already left without a population, and on a national basis. Unfortunately, such a situation is present on the ground. Among other factors is directly this problem of non-nostriction or too long, too large, or, say, almost sometimes inexplicable nostrification processes, making people go outside, to leave their hometowns. I therefore mention here the moment that we are more serious about this problem and that all positive examples, in practice proven, are applied to be not only formal, but essentially to prove that we are for European integration and to abandon not only discrimination, but also to mention here that this is a request or an EU directive, to avoid discrimination against educated children of immigrant workers, but also to even members of minorities who were necessarily forced not to use domestic higher education institutions in certain times, but rather to school in Pristina, Tirana, Macedonia. Of course, now they're neither guilty nor obliged to suffer. We don't have time to analyze who's to blame for this situation that's easily left to a minority. What's the share of the country's situation? I say again, it's for some more detailed analysis. The only thing I'd appeal to here is that we have far more consideration for a dramatic and catastrophic difficult situation on the ground, which requires urgent solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9066	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9067	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers and guests, as regards the amendments tabled by the MPs of the SDA, I support the government's opinion that there is no basis, first of all I refer to this first part of the amendment, to change the name of the signed agreement with the Republika Srpska and that it is generally applied to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I speak in a territorial sense. But certainly we need to think towards some additional agreements and agreements with our neighbouring countries. We should also consider Montenegro's territorial closeness, Republika Srpska and BiH in general, especially territorial closeness with Western Serbia and with Uzic as the main administrative centre. That's what I'm saying first of all in terms of migration, or gravitating the population from these municipalities to western Serbia. These problems we've been hearing about in part now, but the fact is, in Sandzak territory and the entire Zlatibor County, the devastating fact, that the data is the lowest percentage of highly educated people. That is why I consider it a legitimate requirement for a large number of young people, both from our country and neighbouring countries, who can and want to obtain academic titles in the studies of the future integrated University of Uzic and I believe that this is really necessary for Western Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9068	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9069	Thank you, Chairman. Given the essence of the amendment, I will refer to what Col. Stojljkovic started as a topic, but this is not about migration, it is about "positive migration" or population fluctuations, and it is about young people. It's just about that question that I asked the minister in the morning and got a partial answer. Namely, referring to Mrs Stojiljkovic's exposure, I must point out one fact that no one can question. First of all, the justification for this appears that the more young people's movements, in order to acquire academic titles, were recognized 36 years ago, when three Belgrade University departments were opened in Uzic in 1978. It was then the Department of Law, Machine and Economics. The same justification was recognised, though not for Uzice but for the wider region of Serbia, by the former ministry led by Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, when five integrated universities were opened in the Republic of Serbia. What the amendment advocates are looking for is not controversial, from the point of view of the public's interest in that territory. Justification of such a requirement will be appreciated by the ministry and the state. But what involves the request, the request of Western Serbian citizens, to whom they are gravitating really numerous municipalities from the territory of the Republic of Montenegro, from the territory of Republika Srpska, is precisely the fact that Uzice was and should be the centre of acquisition of academic titles, according to study programmes which I hope will soon be approved and confirmed. Today, when we discussed this topic, I asked only to check whether the National Council for Higher Education had really given a positive or negative assessment of the establishment of an integrated University in Uzic, before such a decision with a proposal to adopt an integrated university act in Uzic was already held at the government's session. So we are one step away from something that implies the affirmation of an area that is not small, which is the area of western Serbia. It's an area that's going to get a lot of this way. What was required by the amendment would have given one region in Serbia and many. And what's a lot? First of all, the circulation of goods and people, especially young people, is thus the economic progress of a region that is quite lagging behind. I will not remind fellow MPs here how well the Zlatibor County is destroyed, how much linking it to certain study programmes would make an economical rebirth for such a region, especially when considering the fact that an integrated university's establishment laboratory contains something that can be at the level of information technology study programmes, which is something that can be considered the most promising interest of today. And indeed, I think it would be very important for Uzice to be the center of such an education system and such a higher education institution, or several higher education institutions within an integrated university. That is why I will support the presentation of my colleague Ivana Stojiljković. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9070	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9071	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with full respect for Mr Halimi's oral explanation and confident of the best intentions of the Proposer of this amendment, I propose that this amendment be rejected, amendment to Article 28. Proposal for a law on higher education, for extremely logical and rational reasons, which are contained in the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I wouldn't read the argument right now. I assume you're familiar with the content of the argument. However, what is further problematic in this explanation of the amendment's proposals is the incorrect indication of the region in Serbia. It is said at one point that a large number of young people from the Sandzak region finished their studies at the Sarajevo University, and that the additional difficult environment in employment or in performing a traineeship is also the process of nostrification of diplomas. With all due respect, I tried and tried to find that expression in the official acts of the Republic of Serbia. However, I failed. The truth is, there are statistical regions and regions in Serbia. There were seven of them, if I'm not mistaken, by 2010. So Vojvodina, Belgrade, the Western region, the eastern region, the central, southern, Kosovo and Metohija. Since 2010, the change of the law has introduced five statistical regions: Belgrade, Vojvodina, Shumadija and Western Serbia, southern and eastern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. Furthermore, there are administrative districts in Serbia. There are 29 plus Belgrade, but there is no mention of the term "Sandzak". For all the reasons I have stated, I suggest that this amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9072	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9073	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since previous colleagues have contributed to this amendment, I will fill in some things. I'll start with the last speaker. We all know the current situation, the current law and constitutional solutions, but we are aware that this is not static, that social processes change, that circumstances change. In my address, I mentioned the term "Presevo Valley" with which we went out three times in the parliamentary elections. The term “Sandzak” is even more famous. I wouldn't go into any discussion when it comes to the terms that are in everyday use. No one can prevent anyone from representing opinions on future solutions, which are ahead in the regionalisation of every country that presupposes to enter European integration. Essentially, about the amendment, Mr Jovanovic mentioned that it was not in the interest of citizens in the area what was presented in the amendment. I've been trying to bring out some serious problems for a while. It is a very difficult situation when a family without a single dinar, without any state aid, finance children, graduates from colleges, graduates from higher education institutions, and cannot be employed in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. Then this causes what I have already said - going either to Kosovo or to the countries of the European community. I said, it's okay to think here in an explanation that our professional personnel are coming back from Europe and other world states, but let's look at this whole thing. Because this is a general problem of the state, but it is especially characteristic now when it comes to minorities, especially in this case, Albanians in the south. You have similar, if not the same intensity, problems with Bosniaks in Sandzak. So what now? They've studied people in Sarajevo, and they're supposed to suffer here an incredibly painful procedure so far to come to the right to work, even though they ended up like all their peers in the same college, the same programs. That's what this is about. It is really incorrect to say to the apriora that it is not in the citizens' interest, and it is brought here through MPs on behalf of the citizens. I'm not getting into this problem of these special ties with Republika Srpska, but, in my opinion, the goal is to achieve practical interest, that there is no nostration, that people can work immediately when they finish their colleges in Banja Luka. Why not allow those who ended up in Sarajevo as soon as possible, those who ended up in Pristina, Tirana, Tetovo or Skopje, to have the same opportunities for further development, for employment, for a longer life? There is, in my opinion, the essence of the problem. I repeat again, if there is political will, as it was in 2002, then, I say, a very elegant, very effective Ministry of Education solved the problem, and it was not solved 11 years earlier. That's why even now, if there's political will, the problems are solved. The amendment only had a goal, not decidently to give the legal norm a commitment now, but to have the possibility that through international agreements and agreements it would allow a little, not a little, but a much more effective way of resolving the recognition of higher education diplomas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9074	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic called for the word. Here you go, Mr. Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9075	Thank you, Your Honor. It's an interesting suggestion like this, but of course it's something that's inconclusive, because we have to be completely accurate. If we are already talking about Republika Srpska, at least by 2006, as far as I can see here that it is also armed, many universities in Republika Srpska have been working on the programme of the Republic of Serbia. It is therefore perfectly logical that our state can confess without a problem such a diploma. As far as the University of Sarajevo is concerned, it's a foreign country and a foreign programme. You can't just admit it, but you have to by this law, as it really is true here, about the nostrification of a diploma. The distinguished predecessor mentioned that many students are going, so he says, they are studying in Kosovo, as if it were another state. I really don't mind that someone might finish college in Pristina, since, I suppose, under the Brussels Agreement, there will be some harmonisations, but I, for example, experience that university there as the University of the Republic of Serbia, as I see Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. So, I don't see any problem in the future if someone finishes their college in Pristina. On the contrary, it is part of the Republic of Serbia and thus, of course, that the diploma is likely to be recognised in the future, or found a solution to such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9076	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The People's MP, Riza Halimi, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9077	I'll be brief. Mr. Djukanovic, this is the essence of what you're talking about. Let's leave the political moods and attitudes about how who is experiencing Kosovo. So, how do we solve the problem of our citizens, our people? I agree when you say - there's no problem in admitting those diplomas. Well, let them confess. Why did it take 12 years to wait first and those diplomas weren't recognized? And why are you waiting again, probably, for about six years? Why do people suffer so much? why they have to leave their hometowns and find their way into the white world, risk their lives, and you know what happened, a lot of tragic events, because they haven't solved any of this and these problems. You say it very easily – it will be settled. I ask the question – when? If the Constitutional Court adopted a solution more than four months ago, that it cannot be acknowledged, that a solution of the former Prime Minister, Cvetkovic and the regulation was put out of force, and was indirectly put out of force and the Brussels Agreement. And last time I asked a question – what do we do next? Since the time when the Constitutional Court has challenged the Brussels Agreement, we will no longer accept the demands of students who have completed colleges in Pristina. The Albanian language cannot nostrify in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9078	You're out of time, Mr. Halimi. I'm sure after amendment 36 you'll be pleased, so your discussion will make sense. The 30th amendment was submitted by National MP Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9079	We have submitted an amendment relating to the extension of deadlines for students who have enrolled studies under the old study programmes. It seems that, at least from what I'm seeing from the explanation, you haven't quite figured out what the amendment is about. And now in consultation with my colleague, Cap, I see that the same is true of his amendment. In fact, we're not proposing to extend the deadline for the completion of the master's studies, but to make doctoral dissertations for those PhDs who have doctoral dissertations that this guy is so that they can't finish in the next year, two, because it's just physically impossible. When it comes to social science, that's not the problem. It is a work that is written and probably in itself making work does not take more time than the time it takes to write it. However, when it comes to many natural sciences, there are situations where something is impossible to finish in two years, when some experiments are being done, or when people are doing Ph.D.s in the field of agriculture, that they should follow some processes in the country. It's just that you know that some of the greatest scientific achievements have been done so that it took years, even decades to do something. This would indeed, as we suggest, be an exception. Far from the fact that this is meant to remain so if there is a need, rather than think that further sublegal acts can be arranged in which all cases of doctoral dissertation can be extended, because really in some natural sciences it is simply not possible to complete a dissertation in two, three years if the process itself requires more physical time than you predict by the bill. You incorrectly replied that it refers to master's studies. It's not about master's studies. It's about doctoral dissertation. You have not heard of this amendment, nor of 15 others who have submitted a group of MPs from the DS, including myself, nor of five or six or ten other amendments submitted by DS MPs. Since this is our last amendment, I must tell you that we are quite discouraged by the way you have responded here today to our remarks and amendments. You, Mr Verbić, do not want to introduce the principle of academic integrity, do not want to find ways for the Commission to work independently from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, do not want colleges to constantly control whether they meet the conditions for which they have been accredited, do not want to abolish the master of professional studies, do not want to or not get support in the government to strengthen the capacity of the Commission for accreditation of the Educational Inspection, do not want to consult with Minister Loncar in which he bypasses the Law on the ban on employment in the public sector which he has recognised us here a few days ago. So if, by some miracle, the majority of the Serbian Parliament in the voting day is defined as adopting our amendments, we will not be able to support this bill of yours. Because what you're proposing, and it's good, it's not nearly good enough what you're proposing, and it's bad, very bad. The most important issues and the most important problems remain unresolved. If you don't have the support to implement your reform plan, you know what to do. There's Minister Krstic, formerly, wanted to implement reforms, failed, and that's one way to do it. This is not one of the amendments that is crucial. Much more important are those who were before that, which you did not accept and it is much more important that you do not want to implement the basis of the reform or you cannot, but in any case, this bill in this manner that you have declared in our amendments is certainly not something that DS MPs will support in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9080	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. Two minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Government Minister Dr Srdjan Verbic spoke of the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9081	Dear Members of Parliament, Members of the Parliament of Jerkov, I don't think all your proposals are bad, far from that. I think there's a particular misunderstanding about this amendment. We did not extend the deadline for doctorates under the old programme, but we proposed another solution that exists in Article 128 as a supplement that says that a person with the calling of a Master of Science who did not exercise the right to act 1 can be enrolled for the third year of doctoral academic studies. So we're just offering an alternative solution, not an extension, but a transition to a new programme and three additional years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9082	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9083	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, I think it's too much to talk about. For doctoral studies, you have asked an extremely good question by resolving this law and the law in that section has been decoded and there is no logic to extend because the possibility is given. What I want to thank you both to you and to the Committee and to the Members of the People for extending the old curriculum for another two years in basic academic studies of students under the old curriculum. On behalf of 22 thousand students, I talked to a large number, but with some signatures 4.200 with a unique number coming to us, I really thank you for having heard, and the government to extend the students according to the old program because it's mostly about extremely valuable students, but because of their economic opportunities, tragic wartime, family, they weren't able to finish their studies. Once again I thank you and invite the students that in some way in these two years, I believe that they will complete basic studies and I really think that it is never too late in life. They have a future ahead of them. The greatest creators, and last time I said, in the late years, they created their best works and we can't sign anyone in advance because they're not senior students, and I have to underline this. They're students of old plan and programme, and they were very offended when we said those words. I've seen the indexes of many. It's really about good students. I must point out, colleges abused it, so even some of them looked only at beliefs and conditioned to move on to a new curriculum and program with huge material resources. It was from 100, 200 to 300 thousand, believe it or not. It was all about the financial effect. After two years we have achieved success with all of you and the National Assembly, in 1.10 they are due, and the law will come into force in eight days. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9084	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo and MP Jovana Jovanovic submitted together to the 32nd amendment in the same text. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dejan Chapo.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9085	Thank you, Vice President Becic. Dear Ministers Verbic, colleagues and fellow MPs, the LSV parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 32 you were just talking about, where we want to extend the deadline for students who have enrolled doctoral studies to finish with 2015. 2016, school year 2017 – 2018. You refused our amendment, and in your explanation you said no amendments were accepted because under the Higher Education Act, students have not been enrolled in Master's Studies since 2005. – In 2006, so that the solution in the bill provides sufficient time for the completion of these studies. We weren't talking about master studies. We were talking about doctoral studies. I'm guessing it's a random oversight or an unintentional mistake. I think Mr. Secretary has a chance to make it right now. You've just given some explanation regarding article 128 that you can enroll in the third year of doctoral studies, but the current Article 4 talks about students who are already enrolled in doctoral studies or candidates who have applied for doctoral dissertation, so it has nothing to do with these students you've been talking about for article 128. If you have already given the opportunity for students enrolled in basic studies and studies of master's under the old law to have an extension of that deadline, I see no reason why students who are already enrolled in doctoral judges would not be allowed to continue their period of defense of master's dissertation for another two years. We've had a debate all morning about the questioning and suspicion of the validity of certain doctoral dissertations, which the public has been imposing on us lately. I think we have an overall devaluation of scientific work in Serbia. I think this amendment would help students who are already enrolled and who are already on the move, allow them more time to perform their scientific research in a better way and ultimately that scientific work really has the true validity of true doctoral dissertation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9086	The word has a minister in the government, Dr Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9087	Dear MPs, what I just said, I want to do it one more time, but it might be a little more explicit, just because of the students, because it's you and us that we want to meet them. This possibility we give with doctoral studies is actually not an alternative solution, but a legal solution that would apply to these students who have already started making doctoral dissertation. There is no obstacle to this doctorate, or dissertation, continuing to work by switching to third-year doctoral studies. That part doesn't have to be regulated by law, it can be sublawed, and we'll try to work it out as soon as possible. So those who move to the third year of doctoral studies actually get the opportunity to complete their doctorate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9088	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9089	Dear President, Mr. Minister, let's say I understand my opposition colleagues for submitting this amendment. It's up to the government, of course, to decide whether to accept it or not. But why this amendment in the first place? Why did we come all the way here? That's what I'd like, Mr. Minister, to think about in the future about our higher education system. Why? Because I really do, we did get into this procedure that requires the Bologna Declaration, but that's the problem that I was talking about, that it was introduced to our noses, and I think that very postgraduate studies are extremely demoted by the Bologna Declaration. I think that old system, when you had a two-year master's degree plus a year's preparation for doctoral dissertation, is far better. You have one impractical situation today, people who want to doctor, because they've been studying for three years, literally studying, and you're laying down something that you might not even need, or actually shouldn't, instead of focusing on working on your scientific and research work, or preparing a doctoral dissertation. This is how you, in a way, made it, not you, but the one who introduced that system like this, made a problem for the doctor. You pass exams that have nothing to do with your doctoral dissertation. That's why I really think what was once so far was better. I don't think that should have changed. Now it's the way it is, that's why we have this confusion. Generally, I think that in some near future it might be worth thinking about changing, that maybe the old system of things might come back again, because people, through the making of master's work, are doing great, well prepared for their performing scientific works, or for their doctoral dissertation. So, when you have literally studied for three years, I think it's very wrong and it doesn't contribute to any quality and make doctoral dissertation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9090	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Chapo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9091	Your Honor, Minister, I agree with part of your explanation, I'd just like to make one more finding. You have made it possible, by amending and supplementing the law, to allow students who, in basic and master's studies, have an extension of the deadline for completing their studies, and I think you should consider until the voting day, you in the ruling majority, to still accept this amendment so that students who have already been enrolled in doctoral studies can really be enrolled, so that they do not re-enter for the third year, or candidates who have already reported doctoral dissertations to enable them for the two years of additional period, because we know that jobs and work on doctoral dissertations are much more serious and comprehensive in scientific and research work than when it comes to students of basic and master's studies. I really think that the amendment submitted by the LSDV parliamentary group is justified and I think it will improve your proposal to amend and supplement the law. I hope you think again before making your final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9092	Thank you. National MP Balša Bozovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk MP from the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9093	Thank you. Dear Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister of Associates, here's what this amendment is all about. It is always said here when something is not possible to do it very quickly, and this was also said last week to the media, Minister Verbic, immediately after the adoption of this law, to come up with a new law, in line with the 2020 strategies. Then I don't think it makes any sense for him to stay under the law for a year. A new law is announced next year, so the proposal was to cut the deadline to six months. The government explains how complex it is. We know it's complicated, that there's a lot of subjects, but a year for sublegal acts, I really think it's too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9094	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Prof. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9095	I'll use the MP's time. How much time is left?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9096	You have five minutes and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9097	Thank you, Mr. Becic. So, a colleague said the point. There is no logic that the minister announces the adoption of a new law, as I understand it, that the law should soon be passed, that is to say, in the government, at least in the next year, that underlegal acts are foreseen throughout the year. It essentially shows that this government, of course, and the Ministry got into business unpreparedly. It would be perfectly normal if you said you'd work faster, that there would be progressive employment, that the Assembly would work day and night, that the government would work at least a day. It can't take you a year to bring in sublaws. Is it possible you don't have a team to make sublaws? Mr. Verbic, let me tell you, it would be normal for you to put laws in the process if you had plans of sublegal acts in preparation and then it took you two to three months to agree these sublaws with any changes to the law. No, you're giving yourself a year to bring in sublegals. This means that this law cannot enter into force in seven or eight days. He will practically be in his application in a year. You're here to show your real ability and the ability of this government. That's right, with the renovations of houses destroyed by floods, so is the situation in other areas. You just don't do enough. Mr. Verbich, accept this amendment and show that at least there's a little elan in you, that you'll be doing this job in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9098	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have submitted an amendment to Article 36. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Would you like to make a statement about this amendment, Mr. Minister? Yeah. ) Here you are, Minister Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9099	Thank you. Dear Members, at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, an amendment has been tabled regarding the recognition of higher education documents and the evaluation of university student programmes from the AP KIM territory. We have accepted this amendment. In Article 36. The draft law will be added to Article 2 which reads – the government will adopt an act within six months of the date of entry into force of this law which will specifically regulate the recognition of high school documents and the evaluation of university study programmes from the territory of AP KIM, which carry out their work in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244, as well as other issues of importance for the establishment of the right to continue education, i.e. the employment of high school document holders from the AP KIM territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9100	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I find that on behalf of the Government, the minister has accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an academician Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9101	Dear Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister Verbic, the argument that this is too short a deadline for the KONUS Conference of the University and the National Council to pass this sublegal act and that would be true if the public discussion of this law did not start, and perhaps even before the discussion of the minimum conditions of the criteria for elections, teaching calls, doctorates, etc., so that the KONUS deadline of three months is acceptable, the National Council is working on these lists. This argument doesn't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9102	Thank you. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinović and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The Government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have adopted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Education and Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an academician Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9103	Dear Mr. Arsic, dear Minister Verbic, here's what this is all about, we are a member of the 29th Proposer, which is 105b for new requirements for the recognition of high school foreign diplomas, given to the minister 90 days, three months. Furthermore, the amendment of colleague Zlata Djeric, the truth works, he is identical with our amendment, the difference is that he writes there for 90 days, with us for three months, and the explanation is that it is more accurate. Okay, that's for those of you who are 90 days old, or approximately three months old, it's clear that this center will be helpful, that it will work on that recognition. Well, then, if within 90 days some things are to be completed, we're setting a six-month deadline for the establishment of the centre. I think it's inconsistencies. There is a budget, but there is a rebalancing. The funds are very small, you're right, so absolutely rebalancing can get rid of it and form it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9104	I thank Mr Stojadinovic. The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9105	Thank you, Your Honor, I can see that all amendments except for this last member, but from the distinguished colleagues involved in the deadlines, when something should be brought in, so I'd just like to say for a moment. Otherwise I understand you completely, even in some ways I think you're right, but on the other hand, I understand people at the Ministry because it's necessary to sort this out. This isn't a bit of a naive thing to do better and slower, but to make it more efficient. But there I would really ask you there because, otherwise, I'm a great opponent of unscheduled things and it has often happened before to leave a hole in the law, to purposely have something unsaid so that there may be certain abuses to do, depending on the sphere to the sphere, but as far as this is concerned, I really ask you to respect these deadlines, because these are very important and very important things for our high school system. What you've given yourself, and here you've got yourself engaged, so it says here that you'll do something within six months, within a year, that it really is, that we don't get into a situation like we used to have big problems when someone else was running the country so that it never gets brought and that, of course, there's one terrible hole in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9106	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The amendment to the 40th was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Professor Dr Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a minister in the government, Srdjan Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9107	Dear MPs, I'd like to do it again with the deadlines. We are trying to put realistic deadlines into the law, and trust us that no one will be happier than us to say that the recognition of the diploma works and that we have brought all the sublaws and that we have hired people and that it finally works after a decade of waiting. So no one is more motivated than us to make this happen as soon as possible. There's a deadline in the law, and we're hoping it'll be before the deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9108	"Thank you. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic and Professor Dr Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9109	Dear Mrs Gojkovic, dear Minister Verbic, I would like to say that the essence of the idea for this amendment was almost the same as for that amendment that Dr Vladimir Orlic and Mirjana Andric submitted. I'm taking the opportunity to say that their amendment is better engaged, it's accepted, so there's absolutely no problem. What we wanted was what we did, and I think it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9110	Thank you. National MP Dr Vladimir Orlic and Mirjana Andric submitted the 42nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 44 of the amendment, MP Mirko Chikiriz submitted. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9111	Thank you, Chairman. The government was right to say in response that it was school 2014/2015. A year of exception, I was absolutely aware of that when I submitted this amendment. However, what I wanted was, since it would be a new law to draw attention to the opinion of our parliamentary group on the number of deadlines under examination. I know, the opinion of the academic public, most of the professors, the dean, I know the opinion of the students, and it seems to me that the environment is somewhere between them, that they're not entirely both, and the common goal is that we have as much passability as possible, as much experts as possible, and that what is the basic meaning of the Bologna student process to be at the centre of attention. Ministers, if the Ministry is aware that there are non-accredited universities, it is an indicator of the situation controlled by the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Control, then according to that logic and given the number of scientific courses at different universities, students are right when they say they are overloaded, that subscience programs are often too extensive, that they are not all mutually coordinated to vary largely from university to university, that they even vary in one department in the same university if they are two professors. Now, it seems to me that with the reduction of the number of deadlines tested, which we have nothing against, but at the end of the process, when all the previous conditions are met, and when all the problems burdening students, then students have no reason to object, neither to protest, nor to collect signatures, nor to write to the ministry, nor to announce protests before each academic year, but it seems to me that they are in that part right. On the other hand, both professors and deans are right, given the inherited mentality of which is often considered to be even six test deadlines, because students usually leave exams for the last test period of logic – I will leave it at the end, and then all of this slips away and everything is wrong. The agreement reached about 48 points for enrollment of the next school year is absolutely good and there is nothing to add or subtract. It's also good that the graduates will have some extended deadline. They think maybe they should have stayed another year on the budget. If student criteria are tightened over time, and colleges aren't fully fulfilling their mission, then it seems to me that we need to attract colleges, not students. When colleges are completely even in everything that I've talked about and many other problems that burden students, then all of this is justified. Secondly, many objects are too large. I think it's the legacy of an old system in which somehow the school, along with its educational and educational and all the other scientific and general schooling of the mission, was experienced in one rigid way. That's what the basics show. For the past 10 or 15 years, it's been up to parents when they send a child to the first, second grade primary school, first looking for those huge ranches with an amplification or with those dots that children don't bend their spine, because it's too much material. I know it's not just the ministry's work, it's a matter of scientific and educational advice, but the ministry in that part should be the ultimate authority and not only leave it to other institutions that are in charge of our education system and then say, well, it's someone else's responsibility. In most of the colleges, not even after so many years since the introduction of Bologna, it is not possible for exams to be passed through colloquium and pre-tested obligations. Which is just inadmissible. I'm not saying, there are colleges that have done this phenomenally, like the Faculty of Medicine in Kragujevac, and a lot of great examples, and really here when this is talked about, there could be a series of phenomenal colleges, but there are a lot of those who don't do what the standards require. And it is so difficult for students to tighten the criteria for enrollment next year and the budget, it is necessary to reform teaching, to have more colloquium, to keep the coloquium material, if possible, not on exams, regardless of what European practice is very different. There are universities in Europe, universities that allow you to pass on pre-examination deadlines and literally if you just want a higher grade then you show up for the exam, and there are those who besides having passed neatly all the colloquiums looking for an exam, but of course the student's wish is always to get as many privileges for themselves out as possible. Then, indeed, many universities, where six deadlines have proved to be low, and at the second university that treats the same educational problem, have shown that passability is significantly higher. About how much Bologna is applied from university to university and from university to university, there was less talk in the National Assembly, and I think that's the topic that's probably the most important problem that bothers students right now. Here is also in the strategy on the development of the education system by 2020, which was done not only during your term of office, it is defined and listed as part of the problem and much more than I have said, so let's say that we have had since the establishment of education and restoration of modern Serbian statehood twenty reforms of the education system, that the reforms were mainly caused by the internal needs of the education system, that the development of the education system should be understood from the perspectives of its mission and its functions in the outside world, which is why it exists and that, in the modern conditions of Serbia's education systems, closed in itself, separate from its environment, highly shaped commercial interests, exposed to partial influences, in the short term, private educational institutions have often come to commercial requirements at the heart of quality and much can be objected to the education system. What the ministers really, you have found is a condition that is partially arranged, but largely chaotic and therefore expected of you, and with great care we will follow a new law on higher education and it seems to me, regardless of what, I have never been scarred, regardless of whether I belonged to my parliamentary group part of the ruling coalition or opposition political parties, we have always somehow tried to locate the problems that in the opinion of our parliamentary groups those main problems that the ministry needs in future of its work to pay attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9112	Thank you. The word has Minister Srdjan Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9113	Dear Members, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the increase in the number of test deadlines from four to six has been carried out and that this proposal actually increases the number of test deadlines from four to five. Six in our opinion is too much because it endangers the educational process. Too much time goes on probation. If we want to influence colleges to change their attitude towards students, we won't succeed if we turn it into a series of test deadlines for a year. It is extremely important to use this time for teaching and to raise the quality of teaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-09-09-0.u9114	Thank you. A member. The 44th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're done working today. Resume session tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
