ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2937	Thank you, Chairman. I refer my question to the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Minister Verbić. I am interested – when will the Law on textbooks come into the assembly procedure, since the Anti-Corruption Agency has repeatedly warned that the Law on textbooks that exist now provides the possibility of corruption in the sale of textbooks for primary, secondary and high schools? Also, I ask the first question – when will it come to the procedure of the Bookbooks Act? I ask the second question to Minister Verbić, and I am interested in the textbooks of the low - how much will be printed and which textbooks will be printed for the new school year in September? I am interested – is it already known how much resources are used to print textbooks and low-cost textbooks and textbooks that are missing in elementary schools, since we know that the funds are reduced and the resources for low-cost textbooks don't even exist in the budget? I ask these two questions to Minister Verbić, and I expect that, in the coming months, by September, to be resolved, and that the Law on textbooks will be in the process as soon as possible so that these corrupt elements in the placement of textbooks can be stopped.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2938	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr Ljiljana Kosoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2939	A question for the Ministry of Agriculture – when is the agricultural reform planned regarding the specific aspects of sustainable development of agriculture in Serbia and addressing the problem of the village based on the rural development strategy and the beginning of the problem resolution in all areas with one goal – by reviving the village? Namely, the villages in Serbia are on the edge of a demographic and economic sunflower, and it is estimated to have about 145,000 houses across Serbia that are empty, which is about 1,000 villages, and there are 4,600 villages in Serbia, so each fourth is on the path of extinction. There are no more than 200 villages under the age of 20, and about eight million people have passed from village to town in 50 years, some trend in the world between 120 and 150 years. So, the facts are that our villages are dying, that abandoned houses, unprocessed ornaments, are estimated to have a million acres of land that has no one to process. What about those who stayed in the country? The farmer is below the existential limit due to unresolved key issues – what is produced, how will he produce, will he place his product, will the market have a safe, poor village infrastructure? Agriculture is the Serbian Renewal Movement, the strategic branch of the state economy and by investing the state in building anything that reduces and abolishs the difference in quality of life between the village and the city is a first-rate obligation because it must stop the dying of the village and the white plague of the nation. We therefore believe that the recipe for the rebirth of the village would be to retain and return young people to it, to create conditions for their lives and work. My question is – when planning to start solving the problem of the village and reforms with clearly defined strategic objectives i.e. Is the state planning to live off agriculture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2940	The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2941	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you know, the emergency situation in Obrenovac is still going on as a result of the flood they were, and the consequences are still felt in Obrenovac. Unfortunately, the situation is not yet normalized. I certainly know that about the Obrenovac. As some media write or say, the situation is far from normal and normal. The situation is far better, especially when the Serbian Army is with the citizens of Obrenovac and somewhere feels the need to say that the army remains for a few days longer. It's better to be with the citizens a little longer than to leave early, to make it look like she left a little while ago. My question is generally about flooded areas and the first question is for the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, as mosquito development and that larvae accumulate in flooded areas, pay particular attention to flood areas. Many local self-governments do not have enough money to intervene when it comes to mosquitoes, and they can be transporters of various diseases. On the other hand, the city of Belgrade is doing relatively well and the Environment Protection Secretariat is keeping the situation under control, when it comes to Obrenovac and Lazarec and the city of Belgrade. However, a much bigger issue and much more problems exist in the functioning of citizens, small businesses, people dealing with certain private businesses. I ask questions and the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance – is there any way to help citizens and private firms who have been practically destroyed in floods? We have a lot of entrepreneurs, we have a lot of agricultural producers in Obrenovac, I know for sure, who are absolutely destroyed and who expect to be helped in some way. On the one hand, we have a situation where they are absolutely in charge. They were in charge because they had to carry out the set, they were in charge of buying repromaterials, they were in charge of crafts, etc. Is there any possibility that the state can influence the banks to make a consortium of banks to refinance all loans of citizens in flooded areas, to allow a grace period of two years, to give five-year unambiguous loans and to practically not in the eighth year of the citizens of the flooded areas start paying off the loans they have today? You today have loans for apartments that are absolutely unusable, untapped, you have loans for cars that can't be driven, you have agricultural areas... I'm trying to be louder than my colleagues, but I'm not doing very well. Our appeal, the appeal of our NDS parliamentary group, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, is that the state influences banks to build a consortium of banks to refinance all citizens' loans and small businesses, on the one hand, or to create one solidarity fund for the development of economy and entrepreneurship. We're not talking about a solidarity fund here to save someone, we're talking about giving someone a chance to get back into business and entrepreneurship. The state can set up that fund. The fund can also provide unambiguous loans with a grace period of two years, with a five-year period to repay those funds. We have one very concrete proposal, which is 0.5% for all transactions in the Belgrade city in the case of Obrenovac and Lazarec.0.5% to 1% for all transactions in Serbia when it comes to flooded areas in Serbia. We're talking here from a parking lot to any banking transaction. It's one way to fill that fund. People who are flooded don't expect charity, people who are flooded expect help and the state has an obligation to help them. I hope these suggestions of ours will be accepted and can be further elaborated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2942	Thank you, Mr. Karic. Mr. Babic, I don't have the opportunity to give you my word, because I didn't get your authority, and you're not the boss, or the deputy head of the parliamentary group. Mr. Borislav Stefanovic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2943	Thank you, Chairman. My questions to the government refer to several segments. First of all, we would like to hear the concrete results of the historic visit to Berlin by Prime Minister Vukic, what we specifically told them, and what they replied to us, especially about Kosovo and Metohija. We can't hear anything concrete except the general phrase of good relations and the future partnership shown on one side. The second question concerns the interview, therefore, I ask the question of the Minister of Economy, where Mrs Miroslava Milenovic, the current adviser in this ministry, otherwise the only Serbian financial forensician, gave an interview today, in which she says, I quote - the FAP smells like "Vršački vino". So my question is, what happens to FAP and the investment announced in Finland? It's the Finnish company SISU. Why is the Serbian government hiding a memorandum with this Finnish company and what does the memo say? Is it true that the government has promised this investor incentives only on the basis of a memorandum of understanding? So, when will it be fulfilled and how in the legal sense of investment by the Finnish company SISU uFAP, when the prime minister made a public promise, I quote - that production starts in September? If no tender auction has been carried out, the sale of packages and assets, as well as on what legal basis is it possible for this investor to enter FAP at all on the basis of the Prime Minister's personal promise and what message does Prime Minister Vukic send to the world, especially after a historic visit to Berlin, when one investor, a future FAP owner, has already made a promise in advance, which deprives any bid and transparency of the procedure that does not exist for us? What happens if after this visit to the Prime Minister Berlin, an investor wishes to come to FAP to invest, and someone from the government has already promised discreetly, without any legal basis, to the contrary to the applicable Privatisation Act, this company to the Finnish company Sisu? How much is FAP's assets worth in the first place, and how much will the budget money be paid? My next question concerns an old promise, and that's when, gentlemen, you're going to put an insight into the contract with Etihad? Also, when will Kostolac-Service be returned within the EPS, what did Minister Mihajlovic publicly promise during the election campaign and what never happened? We also ask the Minister of Education Verbic – when will he finally form an independent committee to examine the case of Neboja Stefanovic's doctorate? Is it true that the Megatrend building in New Belgrade does not have the necessary permits? Is it true that because of everything that has been revealed in this affair, this university can no longer have accreditation and what will Minister Verbic do specifically about it? So these are my specific questions to the Serbian government ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2944	Thank you. The word has an SPS representative, MP Nenad Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2945	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I would like to refer my question today to the Minister of Culture and Information, Mr Ivan Tasovac. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a member of 51, guarantees every citizen the right to be informed, on a true, complete and timely basis, of issues of public importance. Public information funds are required to respect citizens' rights to notification. The right of citizens to be informed without having to pay for the information. Unfortunately, privatization of the media has affected a rather depriving of this right. Privatised media often have no interest in informing citizens free of charge about issues relevant to their lives and their local community. A previous period of media privatisation showed its bad side right at the bar. Knowing the negative consequences of poor media privatisations, I would like to ask a parliamentary question to the competent Ministry of Information. So did the Ministry analyse the consequences of such privatisations in the previous period and consider any change in the concept of privatisation? On the other hand, is the Ministry considering the possibility that public service would activate earlier existing RTS regional centres that provided regionally significant information in a very good way? This concept of public service work has undoubtedly made a major contribution to making ever more important information for the life of citizens in the region available to all citizens living in the region in a timely manner. Also, does the Ministry also consider the possibility of reviewing some privatisations, as the state proposes to do with other important economic privatisations? As the state has invested in the economy, so the state has invested in the media and has the full right to request a review of some media privatisations. The fact is that not all media who are legally meant to do so are privatised, but these media, mostly local and although not privatised, are very successful and are achieving their constitutional and legal role. I will list several examples, which is TV Bor, in fact its exact name is the Public Enterprise "Print Radio and Film", so let's say TV Nis etc., we also have negative privatisations such as TV Soko Banja, so S94 Svilajnac, etc. In addition to this issue, I also have a proposal to review not only failed privatisations, but also find a legal solution to integrate a number of regional radios and TV stations, especially those from the east, south, and middle Serbia into Serbia's public media service system. You are probably aware as the competent minister that there is already a serious panic among small local radio stations that are financed by local self-government due to conditional privatisation, and we know the bad experience of many already privatised local media. Of course, we do not dispute the positive experience of successfully privatized media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2946	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, a People's MP, Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2947	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like today to ask a few questions to Mr. Dacic, and the High Representative of the Serbian Government, in the permanent composition of the Mixed Committee for the Implementation of the Vienna Agreement on the Sucession of Professor Etinski. As the public is known in 2001, representatives of the successor states of the former Yugoslavia signed a Vienna concession agreement that envisions finally solving a number of problems burdening mutual relations between the member states of the former Yugoslavia. After the signing of the agreement in 2001, the successor states were scheduled to ratify the agreement in their parliaments for three years, and finally on 2 June 2004, the Vienna Succession Agreement entered into force. Ten days ago exactly 10 years ago since the Vienna Agreement came into force, however, the seven annexes of the agreement, one annex was completely pushed aside, under a carpet full of 10. It is the Annex "G" of the Vienna Agreement on Succession called "Private Property and Obtained Rights". It is an annex that has been seen for 10 years by half a million expelled Serbs from Croatia and the Federation of BiH, more than 100,000 non-born Serbian citizens, but have acquired their property, cottages, apartments, dinar, foreign exchange, employment, etc. between 1945 and 1990. Hundreds of businesses from Serbia who had their property in Croatia and BiH are also looking at the annex. What happened to that Annex "G" of the Vienna Sucession Agreement? As soon as the Vienna Agreement entered into force on 2 June 2004, the prosecution of the Republic of Croatia took the view that the agreement could not be implemented directly, i.e. that Annex "G", but that bilateral agreements for its implementation should be signed. For five years, Croatia, from 2004 to 2009, sought to convince the Serbian governments that it was necessary to sign a bilateral agreement in order to finally begin its implementation. It is important to stress that the state prosecutor's office of Croatia immediately recommended that its courts reject all requirements of Serbia's natural and legal persons to return their property and other acquired rights. Finally, in 2009, a third meeting of the permanent mixed committee in Belgrade took place in September, where the then Serbian government stood at Croatia's position to sign a bilateral agreement for the implementation of Annex "G". Indeed, the government of Mirko Cvetkovic sent a draft bilateral agreement to Croatia on the implementation of the Annex "G" to the Vienna Agreement three months after the meeting. From 31.12.2009 to this day, the Croatian side has not entitled itself to respond at least to the draft and to say what is not good in the draft. For five years, she asked to stand at her position on the signing of a bilateral agreement, and for a full six years she would not respond to the draft. The fact is that in 2009 the Serbian governments sent emergencyes to the Croatian side four times to finally respond to the draft, however, it was without success. I would like to ask three questions about this problem, as I said to Foreign Minister Dacic and Serbian Government High Representative for the implementation of the Vienna Agreement on Succession, Mr Etinski. First, when will the next meeting of the permanent Mixed Committee for the Implementation of the Vienna Agreement on Succession be finally held, as I said only September 2009? So, for six years, we haven't had a session of that committee to work on solving these problems. The second question, when will the Serbian Government start, or the Foreign Ministry, to launch an initiative towards the Croatian side to form an interstate commission for the implementation of Annex "G", which would be tasked with preparing for the final resolution of these numerous problems related to confiscated housing rights, pensions, employment, etc. Finally and third question, when and whether the foreign ministry will meet the UN, which is the depositary of the Vienna Agreement on the EU and other international organisations, that Croatia refuses for 10 years to begin dialogue on the implementation of the Annex "G" to the Vienna Agreement on Sucession, which I repeat is crucial for half a million expelled Serbs waiting for their rights to be returned and hundreds of businesses from Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2948	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: MP Bojan Kostreš, MP Branko Ružić, MP of the people, Mr Susan Spasojevic and MP Dejan Radenkovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I am, in addition to the representative of Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic, the defence minister's proposal, called for the sittings to be attended by Colonel Milan Konjikovic, who is represented by the head of the International Military Co-operation Administration at the Ministry of Defence and Colonel Milivove Pajovic of the Ministry of Defence. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions set out in points 5 and 6 of the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 5 and 6 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you, to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. Whether the president and representative of the parliamentary group are proposing that the debate be held for a long time, i.e. that the debate time for parliamentary groups is more time on this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has not voted on this. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2014 and a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in 2014. Does the defence minister want a word? Yeah. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2949	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before you a proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan of use of Serbia's Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2014, which the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, based on the Law on the application of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, built in co-operation with the MUP, as well as a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2014. The defence ministry, in line with available capacities and material finance, planned to continue its engagement in six UN peacekeeping missions in 2014 in Hong, Liberia, the Ivory Coast, Cyprus, Lebanon and the Middle East, and two multinational EU operations in Somalia, anti-pirat operations and the Somalian Security Force Training Mission in Uganda. The proposal for an annual plan for the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations for 2014 from Serbia's military competence includes seven additional peacekeeping missions, UN operations in the Western Sahara, the Republic of Mali, Jamu and Kashmir, southern Sudan, Sudan and the Middle East, and one multinational EU operation in the Republic of Mali. The launch of Serbia's military engagement in the seven UN peacekeeping operations in 2014, was planned on the basis of a Memorandum of Understanding between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the UN on the contribution and system of the UN stand-by arrangement, concluded in November 2011, establishing the resources of the Serbian Army, the Sanitary Team, military observers and staff officers, which the government of the Republic of Serbia has made available to the UN in the event of a need for field engagement. The introduction of these additional seven peacekeeping missions, UN operations in the proposal for an annual plan to use Serbia's Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2014, does not mean the imminent start of participation of members of the Serbian Army in them, but thus create conditions for meeting the obligations of the Republic of Serbia resulting from the concluded Memorandum of Understanding, of course, if our party receives a call from the UN to hire any of the 13 UN peacekeeping missions contained in the draft annual plan for the use of Serbia's Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2014. In addition to creating conditions for the start of participation in UN peacekeeping operations in 2014 an EU multinational operation in the Republic of Mali is planned. A decision on the participation and use of members of the Serbian Army in Mali was made in May 2013 by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but in the past year there was no need to engage the offered capacities of the Serbian Army. intensive talks are under way with the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Federal Republic of Germany, including the medical staff of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army as part of Germany's easy Polish hospital level two. In 2014 UN and EU multinational operations, up to 300 members of the Serbian Army were planned to join 284 positions. The number of planned members of the Serbian Army has been conditioned by the UN's decision to carry out the rotations of the contingents of the country's co-trigger forces once on an annual basis. In this connection, it is important to note that the estimated number of positions of 284 in the EU-led multinational operations to be nominated members of Serbia's military in 2014, will not be variable, but it is expected that the number of employed members of Serbia's military will be increased in line with the needs of the mission on the ground, possibly by reintroducing the rotation to six months due to the deterioration of the security of the situation, but also important to note that any increase in the number of employed Serbian military members will not have an impact on the approved financial resources, on the implementation of the annual plan for the use of the Serbia Army and other defence forces in the multinational operation 2014. The proposal for an annual plan to use Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2014, plans to significantly increase engagement in UN peacekeeping operations in Lebanon, in addition to last year's increase in participation in the same peacekeeping mission from units of water level 36 people to 130 troops. In 2014 we expect to send a water level unit to 32 persons for protection of forces. These units will be engaged within the Italian contingent in the West sector as opposed to the Serbian Army troops involved in the Spanish contingent sector in the eastern UN peacekeeping operation in Lebanon. The legal, or constitutional basis for adopting decisions on the adoption of the annual plan is contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the National Assembly and the Law on the application of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, which is prescribed that the National Assembly adopts general acts from the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the decision, as well as to consider and adopt an annual plan of use to carry out planned multinational operations in the current year. In addition to this, compared to the constitutional basis for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2014, it points to the provision of a member of 140. A constitution establishing that the Serbian Army can be used outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, or Article 8. The law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates the National Assembly to decide on the participation of military members in these operations. The necessary funding for the implementation of the proposal for an annual plan for the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2014, amounts to 1,183,255,000,62 dinars, of that total amount for the participation of members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, needs 1,084,599,22 dinars. The defence ministry provided 819,500,000,00 and a difference of 265,100,000,00 dinars will be provided with compensation that the UN will pay to the defence ministry on behalf of participation in multinational operations in 2014. The involvement of members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations is an important element of our country's foreign policy. By participating in multinational operations, the Republic of Serbia shows that it is an active factor in preserving international peace and security, confirms its own reputation and strengthens confidence in Serbia's military in the international environment. The Republic of Serbia, through participation in multinational operations, strengthens its own defence capacities and national security, increasingly intensively in the participation of UN operations in the framework of the common security of defence policy, contributes to the accession of the Republic of Serbia to EU membership. I am taking this opportunity to inform you that the Ministry of Defence in co-operation with the MUP has prepared a report on the implementation of the annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2013, which was delivered to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for adoption and forwarded to the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I propose that the National Assembly decide on the adoption of an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2014 and a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2014. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2950	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Kosanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2951	Dear Ministers, chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are facing today a joint single review of the proposal for two decisions, so a proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2014 and a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in the current year. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the said decisions, because the involvement of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations, whether under the auspices of the UN or the EU, the Republic of Serbia clearly shows that it is an active factor in preserving peace in the world, that it advocates resolving all disputes peacefully, respecting international law and other generally accepted standards on international relations, as well as strengthening the role and capacity of the international community institution. On the other hand, the participation of members of the Serbian Army and other forces is an important segment of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, which we greatly contribute to show that we are an equal member, both with EU member states and on the other hand, with UN member states. Given that there is an increasing number of crisis conflicts in the world, multinational operations are becoming increasingly important. Also, members of the Serbian Army in such operations, "Blue helmets" carry out their knowledge in the country, and on the other hand, they gain new experience with members of the armed forces of other countries. In addition, they are familiar with standard operations and procedures, which in perspective facilitate the integration of our forces into multinational compositions and adapt to the way we work according to world standards. Just two sentences to say about the Serbia Army in particular. Some major modernisation is expected in 2015 and 2016. Also, capacity filling, as far as I know, is 90% compared to the planned composition. Now something about sending soldiers. The annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army has scheduled up to 300 members of the Serbian Army and, as far as I know, 18 members of the MUP in 284 positions, as you have already said, Minister. Currently, our "blue helmets" are in eight multinational UN and EU-sponsored operations and that: Congo - eight, Liberia - four, Côte d'Ivoire - three, Cyprus - 46, Lebanon - 143, the Middle East - one, Somalia - five and Somalia, Operation Atalanta - four, as I said, 214. Otherwise, Serbia is certainly taking continued measures to increase the number of "blue helmets" of the Serbian Army and the MUP. It is not necessary to say that we are certainly leaders in this region as far as these multinational operations are concerned. The fact that only in the previous year we sent more “blue helmets” than in the previous 11 years together is also a part of this. It should certainly be said that by adopting these acts, it does not mean automatically hiring our "blue helmets", but they will be invited and hired as needed. Otherwise, the Serbian Army plans to engage forces in these multinational operations in 214 years towards the following specialities: military observers, staff officers, sanitative teams, autonomous ship protection teams, unit-level infantry departments, water and troops. How much of these funds are needed to implement these plans? For the implementation under the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces, funds are slightly less than a billion and 200 million dinars, or, more specifically, you have already said, the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014 under the Department of Defence division of 819,526,000 dinars, within the MUP division 98,656,000 and from payments to be made by the UN 265,073,000 dinars. One special segment - is there an interest in participating in such missions? I must say, despite all the dangers these missions pose, there is great interest. One of the reasons is the foreign exchange. Salaries range from $840 to $4,400. In the event of injury, injury or, God forbid of a worse accident, a soldier gets compensation for the amount, or his family, and these foreign exchange salaries depend on the rank of a professional soldier, or a group of jobs for civilians and additions for specific duties, differences in service, geographical and climate conditions. For example, military foreign exchange pay ranges from 860 to 2,400 US dollars, captains from 1,900 to 3,520 and Colonels from 2,640 to 4. 400 bucks. Here I have to say that the salaries of engaged civilians differ slightly from this. I want to give a special consideration now, which I really am glad and always say, that a special seal in these Serbian Army peace operations is given by women. They account for 7%, if I'm not mistaken, of the total number of "blue helmets" of the Serb military and police. What's significant about that? I must say that women can play a key role in better communication with citizens of the countries in which the mission takes place, especially with women and their associations in those countries, and then in establishing direct contacts, especially in societies where it is prohibited or limited contact between men and women. Women soldiers can gather information to identify an area where there is tension or a place where there is a chance of a conflict. This ability is vital to the success of missions in many places. The participation of women in peacekeeping missions is important for overcoming cultural differences during field research operations, especially in women and facilities where women are staying, as well as for providing medical assistance. What is more, women peacemakers or, as we like to say, "blue helmets", can be a role model for women in these environments and show that they can do traditional male jobs and encourage them to tend to become decision makers, which is not the case in many places so far. Women participating in peacekeeping missions should be seen in a broader context, making work roles difficult in managing the security sector. At the very end, the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Defence Plan in the multinational operations in 2014, as well as a proposal for a decision on the participation of our "blue helmets" in peace operations in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2952	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2953	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, participation in multinational missions is one of the three missions of the Serbian Army. When Serbia returned its statehood in 2006 and the Serbian Army was re-formed, the National Security Strategy was first adopted, and for the first time the importance of participation in peacekeeping missions was clearly defined. Since then, the growth of members of the army of Serbia and the MUP who participate in peacekeeping missions has been on the rise. We heard that nearly 300 citizens of Serbia, most of the military, were planned for this year, to participate in some part of the MUP in peacekeeping missions in which Serbia is taking part within the UN and EU troops. It is important for citizens to understand why our soldiers and our members of the MUP, by deciding us MPs, are being sent to some distant countries, where they primarily help to preserve peace in this area, but also raise the reputation of the Republic of Serbia and enable the Republic of Serbia to have a greater influence in international institutions and to allow the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. They're not on a field trip there. Their lives are at risk every day. The report, which we were able to read, states that in the largest number of missions where our members have been engaged so far, there were no threats to their safety. It's happened in Haiti in the past. Perhaps the most dangerous situation is the possibility of a conflict in Lebanon. I think it is important that we, who are under the Constitution, as the minister said, are empowered to make a decision on sending soldiers outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, are aware of the importance of this decision. Also, this decision has its financial cost, its price – 819 million dinars for 2014. It is a cost, but I think the benefits we have as the Republic of Serbia and the reputation that we raise in international institutions are coming back to us multiple times. There is also a concrete way to provide added funds to cover this cost. The South Base near Bujanovac is equipped and imagined as early as Boris Tadic was the president of the Republic, and Mr Sutanovac is the minister, to be a regional training centre for members of international missions. So there is a possibility that members of the army of other countries will come to our base, pay those countries to train their soldiers and that the state of Serbia has a certain income. I think it's very important that this thing is operationalized and accomplished. It is another confirmation of our army's capacity, and it would also benefit the Republic of Serbia's budget. What we need to keep in mind is that security is indivisible today. Threats such as terrorism, organised crime, cyber crime, pandemics, climate change, as we could see in recent weeks, they don't know the limits. It is therefore important that our country achieves international co-operation through the participation of these missions, but also with countries in the environment. At a time when Boris Tadic was president, we had agreements with all neighbouring countries, except Albania, on co-operation. We saw that we had important help in these past weeks, when we were threatened by the floods, came precisely from some countries in the environment, human aid and equipment. I am pleased, and I expect that these decisions will be adopted unanimously in the Assembly. When it's voting day, our parliamentary group will certainly vote for them. I don't think it should be as it has happened in the past, when certain MPs who voted here today against these decisions and against the participation of the Serbian Army in international missions, this issue cannot be a question of authority and opposition. I think that, therefore, we should act responsibly and that it will be in the future, that we will talk and make such important decisions unanimously, but that we will always keep in mind the importance and seriousness of these decisions. In 2012, the Defence and Security Committee then had, within its budget, certain resources planned for members of the Assembly Committee to leave and visit members of the military and the MUP in one of the international missions. I don't know if that plan has been achieved. That's when the election took place at the beginning of the year. I want to appeal to all of us here when we adopt the budget for next year, because I believe that this year is not realistic, we separate the funds and that we MPs make sure, or we go and see what conditions they live in, work and what risks our soldiers are at. I repeat, we are the ones who make that decision and I think it is important to be firsthand aware of how our citizens live and what challenges they face in the countries where they are engaged. I expect the support of all of you to set aside one part of the budget for next year and to help us when we discuss it in the future, and each year it is an obligation for the Assembly to decide on the participation of the Serbian Army and the members of the MUP in international missions, to give us first hand a report, which is what is the situation on the ground. I repeat, we will support this decision. This is an important decision for the Republic of Serbia. We should not treat her day-to-day policy and I want to believe that in the future, every time this debate is held, that will be the case in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2954	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2955	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Mr. Minister and representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Serbian Defence Movement - the Democratic Party of Serbia in the voting day will support the adoption of a decision on the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations, as well as the adoption of the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army in these operations, with the fact that I must say that we are already halfway through 2014 when we adopt this plan. I think that the possibilities should be found immediately following the constitution of this National Assembly's call on the agenda of these proposals, because time is going on unsuspectingly, because missions involving members of our Ministry of Defence, that is, the Serbian Army and the MUP, are periodically extending and have a limited mandate, so let's say that the mandate of the UN mission in the Democratic People's Republic of Congo will be extended until March 31st. That date is already far behind us. As I have already mentioned a mission in this country, information related to Congo states that the political and security situation is currently complicated, that it is characterised by the deterioration of the humanitarian and political security situation in the east of the country due to the frequent armed attacks of paramilitary formations, I think it was necessary to provide more information on both this and other multinational operations, given that we assume responsibility as the National Assembly that decides to refer our security forces to these areas, that, for example, it was necessary to provide more information on the nature of these para-military formations, on the reasons for the conflict, on the current relationship of forces, on the control of the territory. I hope that, in future proposals, decisions will be made in more detail. Another small complaint that seems to me, in some ways, to be crucial, is about sending a mission to Jam and Kashmir. Jamu and Kashmir, as far as they know, is not an independent state. It's one of the federal states within India. As we are sensitive to every mention of Kosovo, let's say, beyond the context of the Republic of Serbia, I think we should take into account that this is just a country that is specific within India, given that the Muslim population in the majority, in the border area with Pakistan, is indicated to be the state of India. What is also important to point out because of the public following the assembly transfer is that they know that members of our army, the Ministry of Defence and the members of our military do not indicate that they are going to war, not to go into high-risk operations, not to participate in combat operations, but to maintain and monitor peace, to provide health services, to provide humanitarian assistance, to patrol, to prevent illegal trade, to monitor the lines of separation, to help establish the rule of law, so it is also important to stress that all who leave go, to undergo training, to go through a three-way process. The condition for them to be referred is to receive a certificate, internationally verified, that they can participate, that they are also medically and mentally ready to respond to the demands of such operations and that they go on a voluntary basis and that they are always much more registered, interested in going on these missions than is our country's capacity. I must also point out that because of those who deliberately interpret such decisions of the National Assembly, there are among them military analysts, there are people who do not have enough facts, that is that all these operations with the mandate of the UN or based on EU decisions, with the consent of the forces that were or were in conflict. It's good that we as a state came out of phase, from the period when peace missions were present at our premises. Now we're participants in missions like this in other parts of the world. What is also important is that the parties that are in conflict, or were, do not perceive Serbia as a country that threatens someone, which violates their rights, so that mainly our members of the peace force are not subject to some resistance, are not subject to vengeful action. So far, they have not been exposed to some major risks to life and physical integrity. Certainly, I hope that in the future, Serbia will also not be the target of some vengeful or terrorist action and of the mobile forces in these conflicts. The participation of our forces is in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with applicable laws, with existing strategies and in some way represents the international obligation of our country, so that, in addition to domestic positive laws, in this case, international law has been applied. Why is the involvement of our forces in multinational operations significant? So this is really of national importance, because it contributes to regional, better international co-operation, to establishing stability. This is at the same time the possibility of deepening co-operation through military participation in the political, economic sphere. The participation of members of the Serbia-MUP military in peacekeeping operations is significant for the following reasons, as this is a confirmation of Serbia's political, economic and military security. This is further evidence of the reputation our country enjoys in the international community, in the UN, in the EU. It is a contribution to Serbia's integration into the EU security system. We become a partner who has been accepted and, after the recognition of military experts and analysts, I quote them, I quote their words: "Serbia is ahead in the region in this area of peace engagement". Our participation in these UN and EU operations, as well as in the command centres of operations, has been assessed as significant and positive, and our representatives receive regular commendation. The Republic of Serbia is the only country participating in a Somalia mission to fight pirates at sea, as the only non-EU country. This is a major confirmation of the importance of the role of the Serbian Army, its equipment, training, people, command staff, because it is actually the EU's entry before Serbia's official entry into this association and it is one lobby for our country's EU entry. Serbia's contribution to preserving peace and shutting down the hub on instability is also an opportunity to exchange experiences to gain new knowledge and skills for members of the Serbian Army, especially what is happening in real conditions, which in some other areas would not be possible. What is also mentioned in the presentation of the predecessors is a significant percentage of women involved in these peace operations. I must point out that Serbia enjoys an ever-increasing reputation, thanks to its participation in these operations, and that there is an increase in the number of areas in which we participate, which says that we have met the expected standards, that we have put trust and that we are given the opportunity to contribute peace to the world in a wide area, so on three continents, in Cyprus which is in Europe and in Asian and African countries. And lastly, I just want to point out that these are really, if we're already using mission terms, possible missions. If we say surgery, then these are operations that will certainly succeed, as they have so far had a successful character and for all of these reasons, I would point out once again that DHSS and SPO MPs will support the adoption of this plan and this decision. I must point out our gratitude to Serbia's military for its engagement in our country after the catastrophic floods that have hit most of Serbia all this says that the army is still, according to all the surveys, the institution that enjoys the greatest reputation among the citizens of Serbia, which it has justified this time. So over 1,000 members of the Serbian Army successfully helped the citizens of Obrenovac, were engaged in all other crisis areas, whether it was Krupanj, Smederjevska Palanca, Koceljev or southern Serbia. The military has once again shown that it is growing into a respectable force, which is liberating some ballast past, is being consolidated, becoming in the fullest sense of the word national, state-run, because there are no more of that incurring party, political in its work, which was once a feature of Serbia's Army in past periods, and the former Yugoslav Army, Serbia-Montenegro's Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2956	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2957	Respect, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, today's agenda point is a routine act and I don't think there will be any dispute between all parliamentary groups to finally take a unique position on something that is very important for the state, not just for the Army of Serbia. Unfortunately, just a few years ago, when I explained these plans from your position, your colleagues had a lot of criticism at the time, saying that we should not send our children into areas covered by wars, that we should not participate in peace operations because we have a peace operation in our space, and in some way hindered the possibility of having a greater influence in the international community in the way we do today. I think it's three hundred members of the Serbian Army, which, as far as I know, is in the first 10 UN countries. It's something that's very important. After all, you can see for yourself that when an emergency occurs, such as the one with the floods, the countries we work with in peace missions are the ones that first appeared and helped us. The largest donor of the Serbian Army, as far as I know, is the Norwegian government. The Norwegian government and I were in Chad. The Norwegian government respects our soldiers. It's something that's extremely good. I think we're going well through strengthening the needs of the Serbian Army, which participates in the peace operations exercise on the ground in conditions that are difficult, which are realistic, and on the other hand, I think the process of professionalising the Serbian Army, which I said four years ago, is just finishing successfully at the moment when the first Serb soldier who makes money somewhere in Cyprus, in the Congo or anywhere, comes home and from that money can do something for his family, school his children, to buy a vehicle, etc. It is something that is an extremely important segment of professionalization itself, because the military itself serves to maintain peace in its second mission. It's something I've wanted to commend from the very beginning. What is important to know and what should always be stressed is that participation in peacekeeping missions, according to our laws and the Constitution, is based on volunteering, that absolutely all members of the Serbian Army who go to peacekeeping missions are voluntarily registered members of the Serbian Army and that they are doing so solely because they want to. It's their job after all. We have countries where it's done on the basis of a decision. Members of the Serbian Army leave on a voluntary basis, and that is something we must be proud of, considering that thousands of Serbian Army members are ready to engage in peacekeeping missions at any moment. It's something that's very positive and should be commended. On the other hand, I was counting, you're the tenth minister in 14 years, and since 2003, we've only started to seriously consider participation in peacekeeping missions. In 2007, there were about five peacekeeping missions with 15 members of the Serbian Army. A very small number, and today we're out to three hundred. I think you should consider one possibility that I wanted to do, but we haven't arrived, that's to change the Law on the participation of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in peacekeeping missions, because in the summer of 2012, we found ourselves in a legal interplay, because then the Serbian Parliament did not adopt a plan or a decision on the participation of the Serbian Army. If we hadn't brought a Lex specialise like the government, we'd have to return all of these members of the Serbian Army to Serbia at that moment and do enormous damage both to Serbia's Army and our country. I think it's something that can change. I don't think there's any need to make a reference decision every year or a reference plan. I think that when a mission in which our military is involved is adopted here, the Ministry of Defense should be free to operate within that mission in the way he thinks he's the best. What we're also adopting here is the budget of the Ministry of Defense within which you have the resources and you decide which way you're going to place them. I think that this would avoid one legal possibility that we had in 2012, which is that we had a situation that practically in one "unlawful way" our members in peacekeeping missions probably because of their training, but also because of the situation itself they were not injured, there were no serious injuries to the job. It's hardly that you can charge for insurance unless you've gone in full law and that's something that's very important. You will have my support for this and our DS support because we believe that this will allow both you and the Serbian Army to make better access to participation in peacekeeping missions. On the other hand, a few years ago we signed an agreement with the EU. We are also a party that supports the European security system. We believe that the increase in participation in EU-sponsored peacekeeping missions is in fact an indication that the Serbian Army is practically the first to step into the EU system. The entire system based on which the Serbian Army is structured is standardised according to Western military standards and we are present in Somalia, as far as I can see by the announcement of the presence in Mali, has shown that we understand what the military's involvement in further EU integration is. I think that's something you should also praise and emphasize, because you will see for yourself when you have the opportunity to talk to permanent representatives and when you say you have 300 soldiers outside your country's borders, that's something that everyone will support you for and something that's very good. At the same time, I want to take the opportunity to draw attention to one thing I learned in a conversation with the Serbian Army officers living in Belgrade. Belgrade has made a decision to reduce the subsidy significantly from 50% to 30% for all participants in the 1999 war. So after the war, the city of Belgrade decided to subsidise an infostan with 50% for those involved in the war. I don't know why Belgrade made that decision these days. For the sake of the interests of all the members of the army and the officers sitting next to you, and I know they're war participants, you could really see how you can influence them because I think that's something that's minimal and how we can make it up to these people, given that a huge part of them still hasn't solved the housing issue. I'm glad you continued in Vranje with that practice we started years ago. I think it's an extremely good way to solve a housing issue. There are tens of thousands of those people who probably won't be able to solve it the way it was done. I don't blame you for anything. It's a legacy that's existed since the '90s. If we can't solve their housing issue, we can at least make it easier for them to make it easier on the costs of the infostants that were below 50% yesterday, and today they're 30%. We support every effort related to further participation, which is within the framework of the second Serbian Army mission. We believe that this is the best possible way to present Serbia's Army, and I am sure that your reputation as Minister and Ministry of State will be significantly greater if we achieve this participation in greater scope. I remind you that the government of Vojislav Kostunica made a decision in 2006 on the participation of our members of the Serbian Army in a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan. Even in 2006, we realized it was of great interest, but for some other reasons it was not sent by the Serbian Army to Afghanistan. I'm not saying now's the time to do it. After all, you'll analyze it. I remind you that this is an obvious need, and if we had previously had our members in greater scope, probably those parts of our territory where they were members of the peace missions would have had a better relationship with us. I disagree that in the last 11 years, this is the largest presence of our members of the Serbian Army outside the borders of our country. This is probably over twenty-something years of the greatest presence. I think it is something that is very good and that I support and I hope that you will continue in that direction, but I ask you to bear in mind that these conditions in which the work of members of the Serbian Army, which are beyond the borders of our country, are extremely difficult, that this is not even a slightly pink situation. As minister, I visited our members in Cyprus, and that is an easier mission. But that easier mission isn't easy to live on. I think you should continue to equip the Serbian Army in the best possible way because what is necessary is primarily equipment. A 21st-century soldier with no equipment isn't a soldier, he's a target. I think it's that you have to rebalance to show us, to see how much power you have politically, and I'm sure you have the will, whether you have the powers -- I don't know that you provide the resources that are necessary, because what is happening today unfortunately, and in the Serbian Army, it's not pink and I would like to appeal to you that you as one of the executive authorities are free to say what it is that bothers you to make public procurement within the Ministry of Defence. The law that was passed here makes it impossible for both you and other ministries to carry out the planned purchases. I know it's politics. I know that it is often said here that 600m euros will be saved if the law comes into force. He went into effect and in a year nothing was saved unless it was thought to save what was not obtained. In order for the Serbian Army to develop, so that we don't have the situation as we do now with planes where we don't have batteries, and I'll tell you that it's nothing new because we had a tire problem the same way from the same country, we had the same money and we didn't have this law as it is now, so we couldn't get it. So it's not a criticism directed to you, but to our partners in the world who obviously don't feel that they're doing such a thing in an urgent and timely manner, even though they appear to be great friends. I would also like you to make a clear statement about this issue, given that it is also affecting peace operations, and you say that this Law on Public Procurement makes it impossible, in a quality way, in a way that I believe is correct, to meet those obligations that you prescribe at the beginning of the year or at the end of the year, and that is the procurement plan because if this procurement plan is not met, if the funds are not spent, I do not think the funds are saved. I believe that these funds, which have been suspended, have been returned to the budget. The finance minister can boast that he has a surplus, but you as defence minister can only hold on to your head and realize that you have a shortage of what needs you need. The same thing applies to the section of the Ministry of Health. Your military health, as far as I can tell, is in big trouble. A few years ago we had a peace mission in Chad where we ran the whole hospital together with our Norwegian partners. We got two hospitals for use from Norway. These are the hospitals you set up in Obrenovac. What's the problem is that these hospitals no longer have medications and resources to be serviced because these medicines are spent on other needs, and new procurements are difficult to perform in the way they are currently being done. Mr. Minister, I know a lot from your work cycle. I know it's also a problem for you to travel out of the country because the ticket purchase tender lasts you a month. Please understand that it is not your personal interest but your systems and that you try to influence those who are more likely today and more powerful than you to change this law of procurement because this law prevents this law from progressing in a timely and real way and the defence system, because if it continues like this, believe me, you will not remain at the level at which it is, but the system will start to go backwards, which is something we would never want to see. Personally, I'd have a big problem if something like that happened. I thank and stress that DS will vote in favour of these proposals and I urge you to come as quickly as possible with a bill of law to relieve ourselves of these points because this is something that only slows down the work, and I certainly think that we will help to pass such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2958	The word is Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2959	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the defence system is a key instrument in the field of state policy and how important it is to have the Army as a well-organised system we have seen in recent floods that have hit Serbia. Indeed, the effect and contribution of the Serbian soldiers were immeasurable. Of course, one of the main focusses of defence policy is inter alia intensive international co-operation. It is good that participation in peace missions and multinational operations of our soldiers has a trend of constant growth with the ultimate goal of the Serbian Army taking part in the preservation of peace, stability almost in all parts of the world. It is very important that after a long break, Serbia has returned to the map of those countries that engage its military units in multinational UN operations, as well as that Serbia is increasing its capacity to participate in peacekeeping operations. The citizens of Serbia are proud that the members of the Serbian Army are in the best light of our military and country, both in front of the citizens of Cyprus, Lebanon, Liberia, the Congo, the Ivory Coast, and we see now that these countries are expanding and it is good that members of our army are improving the security of these countries both in the best way and in the best light they are shown to the citizens of those countries, as well as to members of foreign armed forces who are involved in peace operations together. It certainly impromptu us all two years ago when the head of the Cyprus Mission praised the participation of our contingent, then Defence Minister Aleksandra Vukic, quoting that our contingent is doing a job in "compliant with the rules of the service and in line with the needs of the population, not interfering with politics". The fact is that members of the Serbian Army have shown a high degree of training and preparation in all peacekeeping missions and that this certainly raises Serbia's reputation in the world. Finally, the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational UN operations is an important element of our foreign policy, as it strengthens Serbia's diplomatic potential for achieving the interests of our citizens and contributes to Serbia's being treated as an equal partner in relations with other UN member states and the Partnership for Peace. Serbia is also ahead of the region by participating in peace operations, meeting all expected standards and contributing to peace in all three continents where we have our participants. I think it is very important to mention today one fact that the Serbian Army does not participate in missions in which the interests of large countries are realised in any way. We should not go into security integration because that is how we prove ourselves to our partners or because that is how we meet our international obligations. I think this policy that we're now taking is the right way and that's the only way to go on. I cannot take this opportunity without personally commending myself as more and more women of the Serbian Army officers participate in peacekeeping missions and, as far as I know, I think women participate in Lebanon, Cyprus and Congo and are doing a great job. I believe these new missions will have more and more of them. In any case, the New Serbia parliamentary group also supports the Annual Plan and the participation of our members in peacekeeping missions and in the voting day, we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2960	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2961	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, has been seen from the current course of the debate that this will be, as Mr. Sutanovac said, a routine thing. But on the other hand, it is also true that we are talking today about two decisions that are of paramount importance and importance to Serbia. It is important that on this issue which is not politically finally reached one general consensus here, within the republican parliament and the parliamentary club SPS has always supported and will support both decisions now. A short time ago, it was said that these decisions were to be adopted at the beginning of the year. That is true, but this is the year in which we have had extraordinary parliamentary elections, the year in which we have had the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and there are legitimate reasons why this has not been done with a well-being. We are convinced and we believe that this will not be a practice in the next period of time. As I said, the SPS parliamentary club in Voting Day will support both the proposed decisions, and a proposal for a decision on the participation of the Republika Srpska Army in multinational operations, as well as a proposal for a decision on the Annual Plan of Employment of the Republic of Serbia Army and other defence forces in multinational operations during 2014. It is true, among other things, that participation in multinational operations is an obligation arising from Serbia's membership in the UN, Serbia's membership in other international organisations, but, as I said at the outset, this is a matter of exceptional importance, an activity that is of paramount importance and importance to Serbia's foreign policy. Through participation in multinational operations, Serbia is in fact clearly and resolutely showing that it can be both an equal and secure partner in the active resolution of global security and challenges and risks and threats. By participating in multinational operations, we as a state show both the will and the willingness to be part of those who are ready to fight for the preservation of peace in the world and who are ready to fight for respect for international law. Serbia's strategic definition is to preserve peace and security. A little bit of that was said, and I'll agree with that. One of the key priorities, Serbia's foreign policy goal is EU membership. Participation in multinational operations, I agree entirely, is not an obligation arising from the European path, but is an activity that, primarily through mutual trust, through mutual respect, through mutual co-operation, can in some way contribute directly in a positive way to the realization of the entire course of European integration. And it's also very important and very important. So participation in multinational operations raises both Serbia's reputation and Serbia's international credibility. What is very important, Serbia today is a country which is spoken well and positively in the international public. Serbia today is a state for which there is a clear view in the international public that we can be a partner. As a Parliament club, we are convinced that the government of the Republic of Serbia will continue with its policy, through activities directed above all and through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also with this kind of activity through the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, to conduct an active policy that will lead to further strengthening Serbia's reputation and respect for Serbia in the world. As far as participation is concerned, there have been moments when Serbia has not participated, I think that the participation of our country, and you will correct me if I am wrong, in some way in multinational operations dates back from much earlier. I mean, even since the SFRY period, whose Serbia was also a member. I think the army of the then state was involved in multinational operations, I think, during the Cold War. So, if we're talking specifically about the annual plan and the data that we can see from the material of these two decisions we're talking about today, you, Mr. Minister, have talked about this in the opening statement, are perfectly clear and accurate data, we are talking about multinational operations involving up to 300 representatives of the Serbian Army and 18 representatives of the MUP. What we believe in is that real capacities have been created and evaluated when it comes to, on the one hand, the capabilities of the Serbian and the MUP armies, and on the other hand that these are both real needs at the moment. However, every year when we talk within the republican parliament about these two extremely important and significant decisions concerning the participation of our defence forces, the Serbia Army and the MUP, in multinational operations, each year for those who have so far participated, who have represented Serbia, I am talking about the period behind us, for those who participated and represented Serbia in these extremely important activities, we have the same assessment by the UN -- that those who participated in the work were highly professional, with the highest possible marks. So, the most positive assessment by the UN. If we have such a finding from year to year, and today when we speak we have a completely identical finding of the president of the UN, then with certainty today we can say that representatives of the Serbian Army, representatives of the MUP, who have participated and who will participate in the next period of time, more precisely since 2014, in multinational operations, may at this time be our best ambassadors in the world. Through participation in multinational operations, and this has already been said, in addition to the above, it is important to establish military ties, to gain new experience, to get acquainted with world standards in military operations, military equipment, operational procedures, and it certainly wants to contribute in one way to the implementation of our forces in multinational forces and to the establishment of compliance, to some of the world's standards. When we talk about the participation of our forces in multinational operations, we should also keep in mind our military industry and it can in some way be encouraged, or we can also talk about exporting our military equipment. So, Mr. Gasic, we certainly want to support both proposals in the voting day. The SPS Parliament Club has been doing it for years. What I want to say at the very end, it has already been said, I simply want to say it quite clearly and precisely on behalf of the SPS Parliament Club, first of all, I want to congratulate you as defence minister, all of the representatives of the Serbian Army on a truly adequate rapid response and engagement during the basic disaster that has hit Serbia, which has hit the citizens of Serbia. What's most important in a very difficult period and the military, but the police were with their people as well. So, the entire government, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, had one extremely responsible, extremely serious approach in one difficult situation, primarily in the interest of citizens. You know how, we know that the economic crisis is something that touches everything and that in a period of economic crisis we have to and we need to think about savings, we need to think about rationalization and savings where there is, not where there is no. So there must be, first of all, a saving priority at the state level. I would simply like to make an appeal to you, and, of course, I will, when there is a Minister of the Ministry of the Republic of Parliament. There's just things that can't be damaged. If I specifically speak about the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence, so simply put, you can save on the salaries of those who are very responsible for their work, but then the question arises, and who will do the job on behalf of the Serbian Army, on behalf of the MUP. On the other hand, you can save on the equipment, and then you ask a question, one real and open question, with which people will do their job responsibly. Please make this just one suggestion and a suggestion to think about in the next period. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2962	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. A representative of the SNS, MP Vladimir Djukanovic, reportedly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2963	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Winston Churchill said in time that there are no permanent friends or permanent enemies in politics, there are only constant interests. It may be something inconceivable to our Orthodox, Slovenian spirit, but unfortunately, in the cruel political world it is. As a small country, we are really fighting for some of our interests under the sky's cap trying to find ourselves after years of transition where we are completely destroyed, after course bombing, after everything we've survived. There's a notorious fact, you can hardly have a strong and stable state, even a strong and stable economy if you don't have a strong and stable army, and it's necessary, of course, to invest as much in the military. Of course, when I say that, I am not a supporter of those socialist concepts as we had in the Warsaw Pact countries once, so that you invest everything in the military, and the people have no bread to eat, or no economy whatsoever. On the contrary, we see how much, let's say, NATO pact countries are investing in the military today, huge resources are being allocated, but in addition to that, fundamentally developing and economic development, some other capacities are developing. I think in that way we might be able to define ourselves. But among other things, your stronger army allows me stronger diplomacy. It's a good thing that this meeting happened yesterday in Berlin, and I have to admit, it was for the reasons of great political engagement and our team, but above all, Mr. Vukic. We were actually admitted there and we saw yesterday, all of us, on an extremely equal basis, Angela Merkel as the Chancellor of the strongest state in Europe and how she respected our delegation. We see certain economic co-operation is being encouraged here, but objectively, if we had a stronger army, more respectable, we might have stronger diplomacy. We may not have to invest so much political engagement in all of this to come and talk in some way. But it's a good thing it is. I hope there'll be some military cooperation with Germany, too, because that would be very good. As for the peace missions themselves, they are not some of our whims, nor some of our desire to go on a UN peacekeeping mission, but I must also commend Mr Sutanovac, regardless of how much we disagree, but it is good that he recognized the benefits of 2011 and how good it is for a country to participate in EU peacekeeping missions. Indeed, I don't mind that, I think it's good for this country, but this peace mission itself, just before we heard from our SPS colleagues, we have the tradition of these peace missions. I'll remind you, and I've pulled the data, and I've done a little bit of it in my life and I've studied it, and we've had three commanders of peace missions in time in some history. Why don't we remind ourselves, Colonel Lazar Musski, then Colonel Slavko Jovic, then Branko Pavlovic, etc. These are all the colonels who were commanders of the peace missions where, of course, the JNA Army was then. I have to say, in Sinai, we've had over 14,000 soldiers in our time, which is really something that is incredibly respectable. Even 21.5% of all armed forces were then in that conflict in Sinai, among other things it was from our army. Actually 22 rotations we had there. Therefore, participation in peace missions is a tradition of our own, and it is all good for the work of developing diplomatic friendships, cooperation, whatever you want and, of course, to perfect our troops. This soldier of ours who goes, an officer, who goes on a peace mission, has the opportunity to learn something that is really new in the world of military technology, to get to know some new weapons, to get to know some new tactical achievements, however anyone presents it, and to bring these experiences here to Serbia and to show our army. And that's something that's very, very important. Of course, I read it, we don't even have that power as we used to have in JNA. We'll have, as far as I can tell, 300 soldiers on peacekeeping missions this year. I see that as far as the Sanitary staff are concerned, we are the best and I'm glad that it is really developing here, I think, as far as these Polish hospitals are concerned, that we have shown very, very good results, but to be honest, I would like to have our army and that there are some new achievements in the development of our, for example, military technical institute, that we may once produce a vehicle, a infantry. Or, for example, we're known for producing very good infantry weapons. Why not, to find something like that in all these missions and to show ourselves in some way. When we talk about missions themselves, I would simply ask one question, I understand when we have this mission in Somalia, so let's say we have one sailor on board, that's quite logical, but here I see that we have more. However, a mission in the Middle East, we only have one observer. I'd like to hear back from you, which is why there's only one observer, and he's not anymore. I think we could really get more involved here and contribute to this peace mission a lot more. Also, I have to ask you, Mr. Minister, just when you're here to take advantage of it, how much interest women have in participating in the peace missions themselves and how much we respect this Security Council resolution they've given, 1325 regarding this gender equality. I think we can also make our contribution to a lot of things. We have a huge number of girls, I've been really fascinated, who want to participate now and enroll in the Military Academy and who have finished the Military Academy and who want to move on in their military careers. It's really for every possible respect. Just before we heard it, I think Mr. Sutanovac is also asking the question, and I'm going to use it, which is why we're only now adopting an annual plan for peace operations? I'd like you to just explain it to us. Anyway, this, of course, should be supported. This is good for the state. This is something that contributes to the development of our diplomacy, the development of our army, and I'd like to really, in the future, no matter what the cost is, but that's what the investment in the future is saying. I'd like there to be less conflict in the world in the future, but where we get a chance on the United Nations mission, I'm explicitly saying that our army is engaged as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2964	Thank you. We are moving to the order of MPs according to reports in a joint single search. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2965	Mr. Minister, gentlemen colonels, dear colleagues, of course this is a motion for a decision that the National Assembly, I hope, will adopt unanimously, because this is a move, that is, part of a policy that is good for our country, for our future, for what our current position is and for strengthening that position. I don't think there's any dilemma in this room, and I repeat, we're going to be witnessing one unanimous decision, which is, of course, good. I am very glad that there has been a change of attitude among most people sitting in Serbia's ruling majority today compared to this topic. In 2003, when the talks on the engagement of our military and police in UN-led peacekeeping operations first started in the post-'90s, I then spoke to Kofi Annan in New York, who was then the UN secretary general on the subject. Then were the specific talks of Jacques Vine about the Haitian mission, if I recall correctly. At that time, the entire Serbian political public, and even parts of that part of the Serbian political public who allegedly were in the coalition, which supported the government, which I led, were against it. We've heard different, to quote a modernist "a lot of stupid explanations" why we shouldn't participate in these peace missions. I am pleased that this memory process has come from a political level that there are no more dilemmas about it. I hope we never come back at a time when we had dilemmas about this topic. Of course, it is our interest to participate in international peace operations, to strengthen our country's foreign policy position, to give our officers and soldiers conditions to acquire new experiences, to see something that they have never seen before, to apply to something that is between exercise and real situation, and not to do so in the territory of our country, but to do it somewhere far away. I think that's very good. I've watched this expense part of these operations carefully, and I'd like some answers there. I'd set up a very well-intentioned, about 20% of the money used for the operations, come as a UN-contribution. That's what I'm saying because in 2003, when we talked about it in principle, that level of UN-contribution was much higher, practically, 80% of the costs were to be borne by the UN and 20% by our military. I understand that the crisis, that things are changing in 10 years from that time to today, but I would like to get an answer to whether there was a possibility that in that cost-effectiveness, a larger distribution would be on the side of those who are the main organizers of these operations. Finally a few questions, which do not have much to do with this, but they have ties to the military and I ask them well-intentioned, and as regards the participation of the military in the resolution of the consequences of the flood and my gratitude to all professionals, including the members of the Serbian Army in the process, but there are some things left that are not explained enough. There was one question about amphibious. Why the Serbian Army did not use amphibious vehicles more than it was in public. There were two or three of my data, and from some ancient data 10 years ago, those vehicles were almost 100, and now we've got information that they're gone and my question is what happened to them. There is a story about some political destruction of Serbia's military technique on a warrant from the outside in Smederevo, in "The Irons" and I would like to see it not only remain on that story, but we get clear and accurate answers to those questions. Finally, we have a major problem in supplying citizens of Obrenovac who have returned to their homes. What I see on television is that they wait a few hours to get a piece of bread and a can a day. My question is, what about military statements, is there a way to organize a normal diet for these people. Of course, I am not transferring this to the Serbian military, but to those in charge of the entire area, in general, this lack of civil protection in Serbia has led to the military's having to deal with things that are not directly her job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2966	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2967	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, this is one of those topics in which MPs of the National Assembly agree. It is good that we will have a truly high degree of unity here in support of the engagement of members of the Serbian Army in peacekeeping missions. I'm sorry we haven't had this kind of unity in the National Assembly before, but it's better ever than never. I also believe that our army participates in peace operations is not only doing this for itself, but also because of its influence and its reputation and diplomacy and because of its foreign policy, and I believe that your plan, which is in line with our material capabilities, in expanding participation in peace missions, is quite realistic. Of course, it is not just about benefits for members of the military and the Ministry of Defence, for the state of Serbia, but there is a certain risk in some of these missions, and I would also like to say something, because not each of these destinations is completely free of risk for members of the armed forces. I think as a minister, and you should explain to us MPs, and to the citizens of Serbia where there is a risk for our members where this risk comes from, and how realistic is it, how percentageally expressed? I believe that, and the DS has always been a supporter of the Serbian Army's engagement in peacekeeping missions. I think we made a significant contribution to that. We are glad that this is no longer the point of divergence between us and the government in Serbia. I also believe that the increase in the number of members involved in peacekeeping missions is certainly good for the military, for its operationality, for the acquisition of knowledge and experience. My question is how do members of peacekeeping missions later use themselves as regular units, how their knowledge is exploited, that is to say more specifically. By the way, I don't think our army is in a great situation, right now, that budgets are insufficient, there's no new equipment, and that's what you said yourself, that we have a problem from a battery to a kerosene, that we have a problem with the Serbian Air Force and that's all the things that have reached their culmination. You know your predecessor, Minister Vukic, has announced the purchase of certain aircraft in the Russian Federation, helicopters. As far as it goes, what's going to happen to that plan that's quite attractively presented in the means of public information. We now have a sad situation that our number of members of the Serbian Army, and if I'm wrong, correct me, about 28,000, I mean the unbalanced part. Of that number, during the flood, over 1,000 or maybe I'm wrong, but you'll agree, one smaller percentage. I know the military has to protect the state of Serbia and I know you don't have to raise all the troops when they're flooded, but my question is why hasn't more members of the Serbian Army been hired and more material resources during the catastrophic floods in Serbia? By the way, for those Polish cuisines, I have to say that I'd like to say that, if I'm well informed, you did it in Obrenovac and there they are. The army is engaged not only in cleaning, but also in preparing warm meals for the people of Obrenovac. The only thing I regret is that it was not done immediately, so many of the problems that were later created would be avoided. This is just a depression, because I know that's what this was all about during today's debate. When we have a debate on the report on the use of our army in peacekeeping missions, where more or more all MPs of the National Assembly, all parties in the National Assembly support this activity, there are only a few questions to be answered. I think MPs sometimes use their time to explain and define things that are familiar. We even heard that some MPs read the same data as you, so statistics -- how many missions we have, how many soldiers. It's not a fundamental question. The main question is, how realistic is it in the conditions of a narrow defence budget, what is your projection for the future, is our budget, given that we're going to have budget rebalances, we're going to be able to endure further engagement, how percentageally, how much can we save, how much can we get from the UN? It's not very clear to me personally. So, you could explain this a little bit more precisely if we could, in this scope, how did you project, continue the engagement of our members on peacekeeping missions and give us an answer on the risk factor, because that's what our fellow citizens are interested in? The third thing, is it possible that members of the Serbian Army are sent to peacekeeping missions on the basis of clearly foreseen criteria, tests and checks, or that there may be some detour and favoration of certain members, God forbid, and then some go and some don't go, even though they meet the conditions? You know that's what military talk is about. I wish that wasn't true, and yet there are clear criteria on which people engage. What's also a good thing is that we have some missions where we have more members, and somewhere our presence is symbolic. The question also arises whether the Serbian Army will be engaged and asked our country to engage in parts of a world where it carries a certain political risk of putting on a particular side in the political conflict of the great forces that exists? What is your opinion of the possibility of such events in the future? Of course, what I think is most interested in Serbia's citizens and to repeat once again, tell us, Minister, to what extent will you be able to obtain new equipment, to what extent will you be able to strengthen the Serbian military's combat state, to which extent you will be able to restore at least some military air and anti-aircraft so try to tell us, knowing how much the budget has been set for the Serbian Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, which, we agree, is absolutely not enough and why it is not enough and does that mean reducing the administration, reducing wages in Serbia's military and is that something that, unfortunately, perhaps military members can expect? I think this is a good opportunity to say that not only to the MPs, but also to the public. So my main question is what do we, as citizens, expect in terms of the equipment, organisation and restoration of the resources of the Serbian Army and the question of the mission specifically what did I ask? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2968	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word has the defence minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2969	I thank you for one constructive discussion of all speakers. Although my colleagues, that is, say associates, may not be necessary, but I would simply like to meet the citizens of Serbia, as well as you, MPs, with the growth of the number of participants and members of the Serbian Army in peace missions from 2000 to 2013. In 2002, we had one mission with three members of the Army of Serbia, Timor; in 2003 - three missions, 16 members of Serbia; in 2004 - four missions, 23 members of the Serbian Army; in 2005 - four missions, 20 members of the Serbian Army; in 2006 - three missions, 21 members of the Serbian Army; in 2007 - three missions, 21 members of the Serbian Army; in 2008 - three missions, 15 members of the Serbian Army; in 2009 - four missions, 46 members of the Serbian Army; in 2010 - six missions, 47 members of the Serbian Army; in 2011 - five missions, 82 members of Serbia's Army; in 2012 - eight missions, 168 members of Serbia's Army; in 2013, eight missions, 327 members of Serbia's Army. This year we expect about 420 members of the Serbian Army engaged in all the missions planned in all the rotations. Of course, depending on the number of rotations we'll have. As for the risks that you and Mr. Zivkovic have mentioned, you in your material, in the decision you received, which you should adopt, you also have a safety risk assessment. All the missions are listed. Each mission has been evaluated by our agencies and, of course, by the UN with its current state of affairs there. Our military representative in the UN mission in New York informs and we get regular information on security risks from the field. There's an absolutely controlled situation. Of course, the greatest security risk is Somalia, Lebanon, but high security measures are also taken and a prerequisite for participation in these missions and we want to reduce to a minimum, minimum level of threat of our members in any of these missions. You asked about the selection of members of the Serbian Army leaving and referring to missions. So, the selection is multiple and it's impossible, simply, to get any abuse and go to someone who hasn't gone through all the security and other selective methods that have already been brought in before. It's language, medical examination, psychological examination, security checkup, physical checkup. Of course, there's a commission for that. What I must mention, and I have repeatedly pointed out over the past month and a half, the Serbian Army is one of the most orderly systems of our country, and there is simply no game when there are especially departures in such missions. Mr. Zivkovic has asked the question of co-tribution. We get a reward or compensation for everything that's been hired there. Of course, what we presented in the financial plan is the money obtained for the number of people hired there. Of course, a much larger distribution is that our assets, motor vehicles, are engaged. I can read you what's been hired right now. Like, in Lebanon, 13 transporters, 14 field vehicles, three trailers and five trucks. That our material assets of the Serbian Army are more securely engaged so that the compensation would be much higher and I could cover that cost with much more money. Of course, as the number of people there increases, so we get both back from the UN and more money. You asked, Mr. Zivkovic, and I can answer that in full on the whole situation about emergency accidents and the involvement of the Serbian Army. You asked for amphibious numbers. Don't expect me to give you the exact number here today, but the Army of Serbia has a far greater number of amphibious vehicles in its composition. Of course, it is much smaller than we had in the period before 2000 to 2012, when a large part of Serbia's Army's material assets were made available and sold as a commodity surplus. That's a fact. It's not about politics either, it's about numbers, and it's exactly how much and when these material assets of the Serbian Army have been sold. Why were three amphibious vehicles engaged? Simply, in the streets of Obrenovac, the assessment of the crisis headquarters, led by General Zivkovic, the commander of Serbia's Land Army, was not possible to enter with such large vehicles in those streets and have the opportunity, and you know and watch on our television channels how many of these were left under water, which were not seen, which are in the middle of the street. The people running away from that flood wave stayed down. General Zivkovic's assessment was that we had no reason, because we couldn't be able to help, regardless of all the amphibious vehicles we brought to Obrenovac. There is, in addition, the communication of the motorboats of ours that was. You know, you can't amphibiously go from house to house. You need to get into the big housing blocks in one place, so we can turn around, so we can go back, talk about it. We certainly have a number of funds, but General Zivkovic's assessment at that time and Colonel Bozovic's assessment was that this was a sufficient number of amphibs that were hired there. It was also a food question. You know, and in emergency situations, it's the jurisdiction of the Red Cross. We have to take care of one thing that we talk about and when we rush to help our fellow citizens get their follow-up as soon as possible, first of all, that in the ranks in Obrenovac, we've encouraged people, despite open shops, who receive over 100,000 dinars of wages, who sat for six hours to receive that red cross follow-up. There was a clear record of the Red Cross being followed by all those days and days. It did not surprise us, in a way, that there were people who were in high and political positions waiting for their followers. We helped share our trail, which the Serbian Army had there, and we have over 1,500 members today in Obrenovac, with citizens, but for the safety of food, because of the way it was shared, it was much better to divide only the SDO in this period, as we say from an earlier period, means a dry meal, to avoid any food poisoning happening, because on that field it was impossible to throw out. We are in barracks, where we are housed about 400 displaced people, we have enabled our kitchen, which has also been shut down for years, we have arranged the electrical installation and the water installation and we have put on moving kitchens so that we can for even those children who are there and their parents to cook that meal. I note, from the point of view of food safety, it's not good in these situations for a cooked meal to be shared, because we can come to a problem, but we will certainly stay as long as it takes in Obrenovac to help these people. When you say, Mr. Stefanovic, a few soldiers are engaged. Here's a report and a presentation that we both handed over to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and presented to you on the Security Committee here in the National Assembly. A total of 15,133 soldiers were engaged in this situation. As I told you about amphibiouss, so I will tell you about the numerous engagements of the Serbian Army, but were all 15,000 on the streets of Obrenovac, Sapca, Sremska Mitrovica, Smederjevska Palanka, Paracina, Jagodina, all over Serbia, Valjev, Ub, Ljiga? No, but 10.949 members of the Serbian Army and we have exactly the kind of army who, where and when hired, plus those extras who worked to secure the loading of helicopter units, the loading of food, the remonting of helicopter units, because it's normal in such a situation, when helicopters are in flight, in the air, that there's been a malfunction, all those who were hired to repair all the material assets we've lost in those moments, because it was less important to us than human lives. So, this is the exact number of members of the Serbian Army who have been engaged in these months and a half, until the moment of June 5th, because this part of those involved around Obrenovac, Krupanj, above all the engineering units, did not count in this report that we gave to the government. Also, there was a lot of controversy over how much the Serbian Army's funds were involved. Ten Serbian Army helicopters were in the air all the time. True, many of our pilots have stayed overtime, which they are allowed to fly on a personal request to help Serbian citizens and to thank these people immensely for such effort and for such engagement. The engineering machines at that time were nine, because there was nothing you could do in the water except to prevent certain waterways, that water did not come to blue some new areas, 123 motor vehicles, water tanks 33 across Serbia, today this number is much larger, the boat aluminum 25, rubber boats 28, amphibious three. We have exactly how many people have evacuated from the endangered area of Serbia's Army. Of which, for example, the Air Force and the anti-aircraft defence of 3,301 Serbian citizens evacuated, members of the Land Army 6,857 etc. Of course, this report will also be in front of the National Assembly the moment the government sublimes and submits it for consideration. We have a question from Mr. Djukanovic about the number of women. The Ministry of Defence actively participates in the implementation of Security Council Resolution 1325 – "women, Peace and Security" and our national Action Plan for the application of Resolution 1325. Women are represented by around 47% of the defence ministry, in Serbia's military around 8.5%. Of the 789 members of the Serbian Army who were engaged in peacekeeping operations between 2000 and 2013, 69 were women. That makes up about 8.7% of the total. They were hired as part of air evac medical teams in Congo, a medical team in the Republic of Chad, a infantry platoon in a peace operation in Cyprus, as well as a infantry platoon in a peace operation in Lebanon, 15 women we had there. Twenty-three members of the Serbian Army were engaged in 2013. Nine members of the Serbian Army are currently engaged in a UN peacekeeping operation in Cyprus, Congo and Lebanon. Mr. Sutanovac, you asked the question – why is this plan now being brought and not at the beginning of the year? The Ministry of Defence developed the Annual Use Plan for 2014, launched by the end of June 2013. The internal alignment of the draft text of the Annual Use Plan for 2014 was completed on 28 December 2013. The procedure for interresor coordination was implemented in January 2014 and when, on a proposal from the Government, the President of the Republic of Serbia disbanded the National Assembly on 29 January 2014 and called for elections, suspending the mandate of the National Assembly and the Government, the material in question was returned and forwarded to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for adoption. That's why it's going now. I hope this year and that part will work out a lot faster. Mr. Milicevic, unfortunately, is not there, but has just noticed and said that it is true, the Serbian Army is the only one of all the former republics of the old Yugoslavia to inherit these activities that the then Yugoslavia had from 1956 to 1967 in Sinai. Exactly, Mr Djukanovic said, 22 rotations, over 15,000 soldiers at the time were hired and then we have a cross-section from the 1990s to 2002. Of course, as Mr. Milicevic noted, we were visited last week by Mr. Edmon Mullet, deputy UN Assistant Secretary General and assessed us as the highest possible assessment of the professionality and discipline of our troops in the UN in peacekeeping operations around the world, so it is another confirmation that the Serbian Army is highly quoted in international frameworks. I think Mr. Čotric just asked – what is the "South" base? We have a Centre for Peace Operations in Belgrade, where individual training and courses are done, and at the South base, training units for prepared engagement in peace operations. Also, there was a question of how to use experience? Of course, the lessons learned in principle. Each mission is being elaborated, all experience is being built into training of the next contingents, so these experiences mean a great deal to us. Of course, what is most important to me as the current minister is true, unfortunately, the Serbian Army cannot boast of the social status of its members. It is up to us to draw up clear plans in the next period and to start processes in the second half of 2012, primarily the modernization of the Air Force... It is also not true that the Serbian Army has nothing to answer at this time. Accumulators aren't the means to get off some motor vehicle, so we're going to start moments 29, but it's just that our skies aren't undefended and of course you understand that today I don't want to talk about it publicly. For the sake of the public and citizens of Serbia, you had the opportunity to see it yesterday on "Blue Response 2014", the air force co-operated with the river flotilla and everyone else. I would be very pleased to see that during my time as defence minister, the Serbian Army gets what was then discussed and will begin the process for modernization, primarily airships, helicopters. We are talking at this point with Airbus that in our plants we are working and continuing the work of "Gazela" around our large helicopters. We're working on it, but I think we'll manage to share in this year's and a large number of residents with the Serbian Army, because that's something that's been going back six years and over. I hope honestly that I have answered a number of questions in this first part of the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2970	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2971	Mr. Minister, thank you for your reply. I can tell you've mostly answered my questions, but there are a few things I'd like to say again. So, you personally stated that there were 1,200 members of the Army involved. Now you're telling us that there were 15,000 members involved, with you skillfully showing this as an engagement of members of the Serbian Army in various jobs, which they normally do. In the context of flood defense and catastrophic consequences, you said that there were 1,200 members of the Army. Only a six-man truck came to the Smederjevska Palanka and a colonel inside.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2972	Please talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2973	I answer to what the minister said. So, I don't get it. Are you right for two weeks or are you right from today? What I'm glad you've confirmed is there's a normal selection, but I notice when you're talking about amphibious, that some of them were sold by 2012, and then nothing was sold, but everything was ideal. That's my layman's conclusion. Why were they sold?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2974	Mr. Stefanovic, I'd like you to return to your agenda. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2975	You want to let me answer the minister to what he told me. Don't break the Rules of Procedure. So maybe the amphibiouss were running out of time, maybe they were mature for old iron, that's what you need to tell us, or they were ideal, new and operational, so someone like that sold them. Which I think is a violation, but it needs to be specified, you agree with me for sure. I think the Serbian Army has one big problem that you have partially touched in your answer, which is a budget problem. Your answer, in my opinion, is not enough when you say – we had an exercise, which in itself proves that the army is fine. You know that we and the Eagle... (President: Time, Mr. Stefanovic. )......................................................................................................... We have a G-4 plane, but we have both MiG-29 and MiG-21, which are already in very poor shape and are having a hard time operating and can't fly. My question – when will you fulfill the promise made by then by Minister Vukic, now prime minister, about the remont or the purchase of new funds. That's what you tell us. Whether this budget or the new rebalancing you're planning makes it possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2976	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2977	Mr. Stefanovic, you must distinguish what daily engagement is at the moment I gave that statement, and I believe that I did, and what the involvement of the Serbian Army is at certain times in a similar situation. Is this engagement only then in Obrenovac so many members, or at that time in the larger territory of Serbia that has been threatened? You need to know that you can't have an army that isn't an expert in saving and only to be on the street, but then special units come out, special brigade, cobras and others who are qualified, divers who are qualified to save the people from the lush water that was in Obrenovac at that time. Also, in Obrenovac today they are not the same forces engaged as they were then. We had to replace it, because we'd been on the ground 24 hours and we'd rest individuals. I'm telling you about the total engagement of all units of the Serbian Army in those moments. I'm sorry Mr. Sutanovac isn't in there to confirm, as former minister, you have a report daily, he as minister, today I, all the predecessors, what daytime employment and motor vehicles are, and people in certain places. I'd like to go back to the subject, not to open this topic. We absolutely have for every year from 2000 to 2012 how much was sold, when and how the material assets of the Serbian Army were sold. That doesn't mean we've stayed in this difficult situation and we can't help the citizens. On the contrary, even to certain units of the Ministry of Interior, we had to borrow some of the equipment, as they had loaned us some of the equipment. We were giving our aluminum boats, which showed that they could function better in Obrenovac, because you didn't see the fences, and a huge number of rubber boats were cut off, putting them in danger both rescuers and people evacuating themselves. They had outboard engines that were far stronger and more ready than others, so they were replaced, but it was only one agreement, one subordination of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of the Army that proved to be very good. These are the data that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has received, which you will receive, and which are presented on the Security Committee here in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2978	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2979	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of his MP group, but also on behalf of the SPS, speak affirmably of these points of the agenda, in fact of these decisions. We have a decision on the adoption of an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2014 and a second decision stemming from the first and which cannot be implemented without a previously adopted plan and a adopted plan, which is a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2014. All the facts are in favour of those decisions being supported. We are rarely in a position to have such a pleasure that all MP groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia support what is on the agenda, and that is really nice, but it is that we have come to a degree and awareness of the importance of certain issues that are universally important to the Republic of Serbia. Both decisions are based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the application of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. What is essential and everyone knows, but for the sake of the citizens who are following this transmission, or they will watch some report or contribution, and the citizens are not in a position to listen to them read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I will say that Article 140. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia allows the Serbian Army to be used outside the borders, but only after the National Assembly's decision. So the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations is not a matter of the current non-political will of the current government, but of the systematicly arranged activity, but also of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia. What's the obligation? Participation in multinational operations meets internationally accepted obligations arising from the membership of the Republic of Serbia to the UN and other international organisations. In addition, the fact that everything is systemically resolved and set in place is also the fact that these peace operations have been established by individual UN Security Council resolutions, and thus they have acquired full-legislative legitimacy, and of course there is no disputed fact that would go against what should be the participation of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in such operations. Today in the world as well as many years ago, and certainly in the future, there are many crisis hotspots, and participation in multinational operations, in solving these problems, are necessary in the service of peace and security in the world, in preventing and restoring conflicts in these areas and finally in the service of respect for the rule of law. So, the participation of the Serbian Army in these operations shows that Serbia is an active factor in preserving international peace and security in the world, and also, our country shows this one consistency in one continuity and backwards when it is viewed and certainly not doubting the future. Finally, by participating in defence forces and the Serbian Army in multinational operations outside our country's borders, a very broad field opens up, so to speak, international co-operation in the areas of economy, trade, military industry, science, culture and other areas. This certainly contributes significantly to Serbia's better reputation in the world, which is very important to us at this time when we seek to integrate internationally, not only within the EU, but also beyond. When we talk about the consistency of our foreign policy, it stems from what our army's involvement in these operations has been for many years, and when I say our armies, I mean the armies of the previous states in which we lived and in which we were. The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as indicated in a few words here, has made a significant contribution to maintaining international peace and security, even our former country has stood out in that as well. Considering that Serbia was an integral part of the SFRY and that, according to official estimates, there were 70,000 professional members, and that 50,000 of them meant almost 70% were Serbian or Montenegrin nationalities. The participation of the Serbian Army in peace operations can be seen as a continuation of the bright tradition of hiring members of the JNA. Our country participated in these peace operations very successfully and in much greater scope than is possible today, so for example, we have peacekeeping operations that were in Sinai from 1956 to 1967, where the SFRY had an impressive involvement with a strong contingent within the UN forces, i.e. within the UNEF as these forces were then called, and in 22 rotations for 11 years there were 14,265 soldiers, i.e. members of the JNA, which is about 21.54% of the total number of members of the international forces that were then participating in the operation. We later had a UN mission in Yemen from 1963 to 1964, then a UN mission in Iran and Iraq in 1988 to 1991, a UN mission in Namibia in 1989 to 1990, a UN mission in Angola in 1989 to 1993. This certainly earned our country a great reputation in the world at the time and opened a wide field of co-operation, of course, that these experiences today Serbia is following both benefits and benefits today. Great moral reputation and prestige, efficiency, etc. demonstrated these forces at that time in the former SFRY. It's worth mentioning what our country's reputation was at the time. Yes, for example. Colonel Lazar Muski was V.D. UNEF's six months in Sinai. Then Colonel Branko Pavlovic was V.D. One part of a military mission in Yemen for two months, and that Major General Slavko Jovic was the commander of a peacekeeping mission in Iraq and Iran for two years, and that each time the whole world was reported almost every night about how these operations were under the command of our representative JNA, it is indisputable that the Serbian Army participates in these peace missions and operations, each giving a major contribution to what is our country's reputation today. Today, our army is certainly engaged on the inside, so we have also had the opportunity in these fundamental disasters, or floods to be engaged, which also contributes to the great reputation and seriousness of our country. There may, however, be some things that spoil the picture to a lesser extent when it comes to the Serbian Army, which is a matter of retaining ownership of the property that was laid down in the previous period by JNA and which today does not come back with an explanation that it still needs Serbia's military and is not necessary because in such places as Cačak or Petrovac at Mlavi where we have the Army of Serbia that does not use it and that would totally fail that local self-government has not restored and maintained it. That it should certainly be returned to those who gave it at that time even by the treaty and clause that it should be granted to the army as long as it is necessary. That question is not now a narrow question on the agenda. I hope, Mr. Minister, that you will allow representatives of local self-government where we have such cases to discuss these arguments with you and your associates. Finally, I would say that the SPS, or parliamentary group, will vote in favour of these agreements that we have on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2980	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. The word has a defence minister, Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2981	Here is a master plan that was adopted in some period perhaps six years ago, and in it are all the facilities of the Serbian Army that are also available to local self-government, and with circumstances, without compensation, the local self-government in Petrovac at the Mlavi benefit of the House of the Army. Mr. Colonel Pajovic was also a garrison commander in Pogorevec, so we know that. So, where we can go out, of course we meet with local self-governments that they can use these objects, but of course they have to have a request, too, to have an initiative, if they need to take care of it and use it. But certainly the military property, which was given in some period without compensation and in a lease without compensation, etc., as it was popular to call it, we are now discussing and now we are making a list of all the properties that were alienated in some previous period and in the way that they were alienated. In our master plan, everything the Serbian Army wants to return to local self-government has been clearly shown, to offer local self-governments that they can build their facilities on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2982	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2983	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister, as a former soldier of one army who was very serious, which lasted 15 months in my time, with the training I've been through for 200 days, I am obliged to support these proposals for two reasons. One is the military, and another is the civil war that has passed the area of the former Yugoslav republics. A number of these republics were affected by the war, and others participated in the war in a certain way, which by logistics, through volunteering units. So we know very well what peace missions are for. They were useful to us, one way or another. The time has come for the good services that others have given us back in the same way that they have provided us with, with some of those who should have given us these good services, either those who have violated certain norms in different ways, but who will not be compared to the bad ones, but will be compared to those who have been in a certain way impartial and played a peace role in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, that is, the former Yugoslav republics in the civil wars that have taken hold of those areas. I'm back on the military deadline. So I did make our units go there. I don't know how many regulations at this point allow it. If military service is not allowed, I am certainly for the training of the population, especially the male population, in the handling of weapons and certain tactical exercises, so that in such a way we can have a solid reserve composition, so that we can have solid territorial defenses and that in such a way that the rest is in a certain way brought to civil protection that we so miss. At this point, not serving a military term has chain consequences and leads us to a lack of reserve composition and a lack of territorial defenses that are not poorly imagined and which should be revived in a certain way. I repeat, if it is not feasible to serve the military term, I think it is quite feasible that in the nearest barracks, the male population in a certain number of years is trained in arms handling, so that in such a way the nation will be prepared for God's sake, if circumstances change, that in a certain way this country may have a people with whom it can react. Of course, I support everything that's been said so far. I also support certain parts of my fellow agricultural winemaker in his inspired speech about the army. He and I are about a generation. In our time, it was a shame not to serve an army. Being a man, not serving an army, was thought to be something wrong with that man, and especially that he didn't belong with those who handle guns. I'm aware that he didn't serve the army, at least not ours, and I don't believe he's competent enough to deal with these issues. Unfortunately for us, despite his inability to serve the military deadline, he was later able to command certain armed units, or federal police...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2984	Please, Mr. Risticevic, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2985	Mr. Chairman, none of them have been warned about the subject. The theme is, of course, our peace missions, military, etc. And everyone was walking away from the subject far more than me. So, I support these solutions and I say that some of my colleagues have had appropriate objections, and they forgot that although they were unable to serve the military, they commanded units, even the units of the police used in those places where the military was used, which is control. Mr. Martinovic knows that, it's the control of our borders, because in the jurisdiction of the military they were crossing the border to the federal police. So someone who couldn't serve anything could suddenly command armed forces. So, he's been giving his expert opinion here, and with that in mind, I have to say, since there's a minister of defense, to remind him, and the military knows it very well, and there's a saying with them -- the one who didn't learn to listen and serve, he can't command. With that in mind, I can't let anyone else's expert opinion come out here just because they put on a uniform in 1990 and got into some commanding army uniform and got into a low-rise barracks, so the soldiers had to throw it out, because they knew that the word that the one who didn't serve couldn't even command. So he was kicked out of that command post where he tried to suddenly reach as a local commander to control the Yugoslav Army in a certain way. Also, in these problems concerning our missions, floods have been discussed. I'm not the one who's going to start this topic, it's the theme that's started. Former Secretary of Defense...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2986	Mr. Risticevic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2987	Mr. Chairman, I'm just repeating what's been said here. So I didn't open the subject of the flood, the others opened it. I hope our peacekeeping missions deal with floods, let me just finish, but here we're talking about a lack of technical resources. Over 800 boats have been sold. I served engineering in Mekush and Kamenski, there we had seas of amphibious boats, rubber, aluminum, we had machine engineering, we had ponteries, pontoons, amphibs, etc. But it happened that during the rule of the former defence minister, the funds disappeared and now we are in a position to cost the boat 10 to 14,000 dinars, so the former defence minister's suit cost 30 to 40 boats. No one appreciates what he's wearing on him, but what he's got inside him. It's not worth drinking in a barrel, not a minister by suit, but by work. In the end, I tell you, this is all fine, and I support everything that you're military about, but I'm still in favour of training the population in arms handling, to create a cheap state that will be able to carry the existence of the population economically and that will be able to technically, humanly and commandably advance our army. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, if we don't do it, whoever doesn't feed and train his army will feed someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2988	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2989	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, quite frankly, I have been very pleased with the discussion this morning when it comes to this issue, because we were all simply agreeable and we were eager to make certain decisions, one as the first before this meeting, and it refers to the military and gives us the opportunity the next day with that style and the way we've been thinking since this morning we can come to exactly what we're all saying and we're talking about, and that's modernization of the army, one big agreement. I simply don't want these topics that are very serious for the Serbian Army, something that is our priority, one of our missions, to even enter the political field in the debate, because it simply doesn't give space to the Serbian Army that it can move faster into the modernisation process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2990	Thank you. Now I'm giving a regular break for an hour. We continue work at 13.40 hours. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2992	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, you know that when I report to you, I talk about health care and doctors, and so on about this bill, where it has and how it relates to doctors and health workers who refer to peace missions. First of all, I would like to say that the history of the Serb military observers goes very far into the past. I'll just mention what was not heard in the debate today, that the first military mission was in 1897, when our soldiers were hired as mediators in the Greek-Turkish war and they intervened and were practically military observers for two years, from 1897 to 1899. One of our most numerous and practical military missions was between 1956 and 1967 in Sinai, where more than 14,000 of our soldiers from the former Yugoslavia were in the contingent. This exhibit of mine I want to begin with the conclusion that sending our soldiers is one good thing and that they are literally ambassadors of our country, ambassadors of peace and ambassadors of peace policy in areas that are unstable and areas that need to demarcate and some peaceful influence come to peace for their citizens. Whenever you are a mediator in one dispute, especially under the auspices of the UN, it is a good sign that Serbia is countries of stability, that the Serbian army is something that has always been on the line of allies and that it participates in the process of reconciliation of peoples who have had problems. What I'm saying is that in these missions where Serbian soldiers are sent, there are doctors and medical technicians, and that's a good move for our health care, because they're already well acquired medical knowledge applied to these military operations. In particular, in the state of Congo, our Sanitary team participates in evacuating the population and evacuating soldiers by air, if they are injured, participate in providing emergency surgical interventions in order to stabilise patients and prepare them for further evacuation, providing professional assistance to local health institutions, X-ray diagnostics, dental care and sanitisation of hospitals and patients with medicines from their own pharmacy. These are all very good examples of the good practice of our doctors who participate in these missions. Our doctors who participate there, in addition to that knowledge they already possess, acquire additional knowledge in the management of war injuries, in the management of serious physical injuries that, when emergency situations occur in our country, they can apply. I also want to tell you that as a professor of the Faculty of Medicine in Nis, unfortunately, when we were faced with the bombing in 1999, our military schedule was a clinical center and the disposal of injured by cluster bombs, but also the care of everyone injured by KIM, because Nis and the clinical center were the first stop where our young soldiers who were injured in this bombing were transported. I can pass on to you the great enthusiasm of doctors and nurses, not just the Nis Clinical Center, but mostly I'm talking about him, where, unfortunately, we've had a chance to get acquainted with war injuries, war wounds, we haven't had the experience of military doctors. Unfortunately, this one unfortunate incident that happened to us and that one injustice to our people, that bombing, a large number of young soldiers and boys were injured. We were in Nis providing some first aid, these young soldiers were literally brought by helicopters, so when NATO Air Force started firing these helicopters, they were literally transported by city transport, Nis Express by buses, by those wrists, and so they were delivered to us to help them. It is an experience that Serbian doctors, unfortunately, have gained in the management of war injuries during NATO bombings. We also have great experience for doctors who participate in these missions, so as a doctor, I fully support this. This is one good thing where you have the opportunity to send your health care staff to provide assistance in some countries where an angry war, where the population has problems, where soldiers have problems, to take care of these injuries. I think it's one good thing and as an MP, I will vote for the approval of these military delegations, believing once again that military observers and sending our soldiers, especially our doctors, medical technicians, are a good thing. These are our ambassadors of a peace policy, a country that wants peace, not only in its territory, but in the territory of all other countries where these military missions are being sent. So that's a good thing, and I'm saying I'm going to vote as an DS MP for this. At the end of the day, I'd take the opportunity, given that there's an army minister here to ask one question. to share an opinion with you. Since Serbia's military health sector has been built in the former Yugoslavia for the former Yugoslavia's army. He's done well and has a large space, has great capacities, well-equipped hospitals. However, after professionalisation of the Serbian Army, we have a very small number of soldiers, and thus we have a very small number of possible patients, and on the other hand we have a very well equipped military hospital, specifically in Nis, a military hospital in Novi Sad. My question to the two military ministers before you – is there any possibility of involving military hospitals, specifically in Nis and Novi Sad, in the health care sector of the Republic of Serbia? It is certainly an analysis of both the Ministry of Military and the Ministry of Health and that these military hospitals are city hospitals of the city of Nis and the city of Novi Sad where the facilities of these hospitals would be used in the best possible way for citizens who are health insurance professionals. Given that these hospitals are now really empty, that they don't have patients because there aren't many professional soldiers, and on the other hand the capacity is good, you have well-equipped operating rooms, well equipped radiological centres, well equipped rooms, good doctors that I think in this situation when the economic situation is bad, when we have waiting lists, and a large number of people are waiting for operations to be involved, included, practically in the health system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2993	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sinisa Maksimovic, and let the MP Momo Stojanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2994	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable fellow MPs, distinguished officers of the Serbian Army, respected Minister Gasic, I belong to those people who think that not everything in the past has been so bad, and I am so surprised at some fellow Members of the people who said from this place a few days ago that all that has been in the past decades has been bad, and I have to say that they are older than me, and that perhaps during some period in this country or Yugoslavia or Serbia have enjoyed certain privileges. But let it go to them. Today, I feel a special satisfaction that some fellow MPs have been making adjustments in some way, because during a period of time, the Serbian army, the Yugoslav army, the Yugoslav brilliant officers have spoken the ugliest words, even declared to be traitors, not to fight for their people and their country, or to fight for someone. I don't think so. I think our army has passed all possible tests so far, that our army defended its people when it was difficult for the people, because in the end, for the toss army and trained and for that they were soldiers, i.e.. Officers and schooled. Dear Minister Gasic, the two of us know each other well. One from Kruševec, under two, for the past two years we have worked together and worked together in the interest of the town of Kruševec, you in the place of mayor, and I in the place of your deputy. I am absolutely sure that you will do this mission right, all in the interest of the citizens of Kruševac, the citizens of Serbia and in the interest of the Serbian Army. You have a difficult task, and while you've been traveling to your office, you've met with one of the heavy tasks, with the great floods and the great tribulations that have hit one part of our country. I've got to tell you, by the estimate, not mine, but by the estimate of a number of citizens, you've passed the task very successfully. Just as you say in your army jargon, you've raised an army and officers on their feet. It was a pleasure to see in such a situation the ability of our officers and soldiers who risked their lives saving people and property. Thank you for that. You, Mr. Minister, will have a difficult task to work at this difficult time to regain the reputation of the Serbian Army. The tough times, a little steam is set aside from Serbia's budget, need to be restored to the military to provide material conditions and, of course, to ensure greater income for people who work in the military. But I'm sure you'll succeed on that mission, too. I know for a fact that you'll be going to Shadow and Cave High very soon and see what's going on with those planes of ours that were destroyed there in 1999 without anyone going to see what's going on. You just haven't been able to get familiar with that problem or you already know it, but you haven't been able to do it physically. We as MPs, and here we are today, almost, all of us agree, to provide full assistance for everything the army needs and, of course, for the reason the army needs the people. Serbia is a free country. She never attacked anyone, nor do we intend as a people, as citizens to threaten anyone's freedom or to set foot outside our country's territory. We're also a heroic people. We intend to strengthen our army. To have our army trained not only for such occasions as they were a month ago, but possibly from some others, so to speak, accidents that could happen to our citizens. We are at the end of the day, and in the past the military has shown full combatability, full capacity to do so and I want to thank this opportunity to all those who have defended Serbia in difficult times, and unfortunately, and one number of people have lost their lives and this country has to give their families in an adequate way, it is not possible of course to replace their lives, but to their children, their fathers, their mothers, to give the maximum of what they have in some way belongs to them. Mr. Minister, I know that one question does not enter your area, but I ask you to pay attention to all the mentions of the markings that belong to the army. In particular, let's see what is possible for the state of Serbia to do when it comes to rebuilding the Thessaloniki military cemetery "Zatelinik". I think as coming generations we have an obligation to sort of fix it a little bit, to see what it is we have to do because a large number of our citizens and citizens from the world every day come there, and of course every other mark that has been erected by our brave soldiers and officers in the country. The Socialist Party of Serbia, as they said before, we will support these two decisions, but I have one proposal. Since Kruševac is the winner of the UN's highest recognitions, "Kurir of Peace" and "The Vesnik of Peace", and Kruševac has the only monument in the world that is dedicated to peace, that one contingent, one group of our soldiers and officers, precisely from this place from Kruševac from the monument of peace goes into the world to defend and preserve peace, something that needs every nation and every nation to adorn, is to preserve and fight for peace. In the end, I want all those people who are going on peace missions around the world to be accompanied by good health and personal happiness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2995	Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. Let him prepare himself, MP Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2996	President-in-Office, distinguished ministers, respected members of the defence ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that there are no important disputes from my predecessors' discussions that today's proposal for a plan and a proposal for a decision on the participation of the Serbian Army in peace operations is being adopted. So I would not spend much time on it, I would just point out that the mission of participation in peace operations is one of the three declared missions of the Serbian Army, that this mission is in agreement with the country's strategic documents, such as the national security strategy, the defence strategy, and the strategic defence review. What is the benefit of the participation of members of the Serbian Army in peace operations? Each of us MPs has noticed well, I would only list four. One of the most important and important, I would say, the benefits this country has is that this sends a clear message that Serbia and its contingent participate in establishing peace and stability in the world. Another benefit for our country is that it strengthens our country's foreign policy credibility. The third certainly is that our army members, through participation in peace operations, gain extraordinary experience and skills in the warfare of more modern armies today in the world. Fourthly, this strengthens the overall reputation of the Serbian Army today in the world. There have been a lot of words here about the refunding of funds through the United Nations Fund, so the minister said that about a billion cost this year our contingent's participation in peacekeeping operations, that 800 million are from the defence ministry's budget, or the Serbian budget, and around 200 million will be refunded through the United Nations funds, which are scheduled to do so. It's nice to explain why it's like that. On the Committee for the Defence of Interior, I asked the Ministry for an explanation that for now, given the technological commitment and capacity of the Serbian Army, we, unfortunately, are involved with living force, so to speak, without accompanying equipment. The moment we technologically modernize our army and when we are able to participate with the accompanying equipment and means, then that refund will be far greater. What is looking forward to is an explanation by the defence ministry's representatives that this relationship paid out of the budget and refunded from the United Nations in our country is compatible with the relationship in other countries, so we are not in a discriminatory position with other countries participating in peace operations today. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for, as rarely since his predecessors, attending a meeting of the Committee on the Defence of the Interior, for presenting the Ministry's work plan and attending the session today. We know that earlier proposals for decisions and plans to use the moss have been presented to the ministry's representatives, without the minister's presence, making it clear that the minister clearly shows his firm determination to bring things into order at the Ministry of Defence. I have asked the Committee on the Defence of the Interior of the Minister and I am now using this opportunity to make the topic of the technological lagging of the army, the topic of dimensioning the army towards the real needs of this country, and I would say, according to the real security challenges, risks and threats that the Republic of Serbia is still exposed to, to make some kind of harmony, because I believe that we are three declared targets - less, better-paid and effective army, through this reform of the army we have received a worrying small army, a technologically lagging army in relation to the countries of the environment, and not to talk about the relation of the EU's leading countries today. There have been a lot of words and objections from opposition parties here. I would not like to politicise this issue, but I would also have to say to use the presence of the defence minister, I know what problems the ministry is facing today and how modest the budget of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army is, but I also know that in the past a little bit in the budget that was largely unintendedly spent, so I would refer the defence minister to thinking, and so is my colleague Risticevic or one of the debaters. We've professionalized the Army of Serbia, and I realize that in the Army, we have to do some sensitive duties to have top-level professionals, say operators on complex missile systems, say gunmen on artillery guns and not count, on some specific universes, but I don't see that we have to have professional soldiers on some side duties in the military. If every layman today calculates how much a professional soldier costs and how much a hand soldier, he'll see that it costs a lot more than a professional soldier. Of these means, if, in part, deprofessionalization, if I were to conditionly say, execute armies and retain only critical, sensitive specialities, we would find the means to equip the army today with more modern means of war techniques. I think the savings are multiple. The second reason for the non-intentional spending of budget funds, I would not mention here the "Satellite" affair, an affair of imports of modern telecommunications equipment from France without an atheist and various other suspicious arms and military transactions through SDPR, where our dedicated factories worked day and night, where huge funds from our dedicated capacities were sold to third countries. I'd like to know where these funds ended and were they spent in modernizing and equipping the army? I'd like to re-evaluate all these unintentional spending of budgets when it comes to the military. I don't think we could have gone from 2012 to today on that plan, and I certainly know that there's relevant data about it, to see if we could have done anything about those start-up batteries, could we have done something about those funds that ended up somewhere else? In the end, I would say that the Serbian Progressive Party's MP group will certainly support the proposal for this decision and the military's plan to use it in participation in the peace operations this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2997	I thank you, Mr. Stojanovic. The word has the defence minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2998	First of all, I would like to thank you for the nice words we just heard, but that wasn't my result either, that wasn't the result of my only engagement, it was one big team, and above all, the soldiers and officers of the Serbian Army. They carried out the greatest burden of all these events of floods. Thank you anyway for that. As for the airport, of course, it was already issued prior to the text in certain magazines and newspapers orders for the possession of the facility, because in the previous period this same facility was given through the master's plan for sale, so I sincerely hope that we will start clearing up the terrain of that airport you're talking about, Mr Maximovic, in the next period. Mr. Milisavljevic, you must know that both the Niš and VMC military hospitals in Novi Sad have been working with the population for a year, with the civil sector and providing all secondary medical care services. So the primary and the tertiary aren't covered by it, because we just don't have the capacity for all of it. That includes all existing specialist services. Of course, we don't do general practice, so that's what we're involved in. Mr. Stojanović, you're familiar. Of course we're going to examine all the abuses that occurred in the previous period. You say a moment ago, let's see what these funds were spent on both "Satellite" and all. It's back at the prosecution and the judiciary to make their decisions about how it was spent, but surely we won't have any abuse in the next period when it comes to selling military weapons and military equipment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u2999	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3000	Just one addition to the citizens being treated in Nis and Novi Sad. That is true, but what I see we can do is that those in military hospitals are examined as they are examined at the Clinical Centre in Nis, as they are examined in the health system of the Republic of Serbia, and not specifically agreed, and that particularly from the Republic Health Insurance Fund, additional funds, which are carried out through an inspection at the military hospital, are paid at the military hospital. So, from one poor budget, we finance Serbian health care. Military and civil it must be a health care facility that can provide health care to Serbian citizens at this time. It's an idea, not to tax each other extra. These are two different systems – the Ministry of Health and Military Health at the Ministry of the Army, but specifically these two hospitals to be one pilot project, because neither Novi Sad nor Nis have city hospitals. This model that exists is that citizens can, but then are paid extra after the review, so I ask why would doctors, who have already been paid by the Ministry of the Army, and the Ministry of the Army get money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, why would we double-pay something when we're poor? So it's just that, good will and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3001	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3002	Good afternoon. The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Officers, the Honorable fellow Members of the People, I will make several comments, above all on this subject that we are talking about today, with a special reference to this military-sanitary part, therefore, the health part of the whole story. In modern international relations, above all, international multinational peace operations truly have a very important place and represent a very powerful tool to solve the consequences of the conflict. What is very important is that there has never been more significant participation in these peace operations in recent history. It should be borne in mind that there is one international obligation for each country to participate in peacekeeping operations. This obligation is not so explicit, but in any case, the state participating in peace operations represents a serious state, a stable state, a country dedicated to security in world and peace, and at the same time, by this act of participation, we are definitely representing partners to one of the great forces, because we know that the carriers of such types of operations are most often some of the great forces and their financiers. What is particularly important for each country, for every country, is that it is much better for the state to give its troops into peacekeeping missions than for it to receive peace contingents on its own territory. I will sum up my exposure in this part by thus allowing a huge political benefit for each country. Now I'd like to look back, since I'm a doctor, by vocality, for the participation of a representative of military health. The active involvement of the representatives of military health in peacekeeping operations is really important to me, not only because it is a personal and professional challenge for doctors and medical staff, but because I believe that this way can really adopt a lot of new knowledge and in very specific, I would say, extraordinary circumstances on the ground. On the other hand, I personally think that the participation of military-sanitary teams really raises the credibility of the Military-medical academy as a significant institution in the system, but also the Ministry of Defence and the state in general. The Secretary of Defense is here, and he probably knows more about it, but I'd really like to mention one example of the Sanity mission in Chad. This is an example of where the UN Secretary-General himself praised the activities of our sanity teams on the ground. The report mentions the extremely high level of professionalism of our doctors, our medical staff, and what is particularly important is that we are more than equal with all the leading armed forces, not only in the region, but on the world level. As a doctor and urologist by vocality, therefore, surgical specialities, I cannot help but mention and not compliment the surgical teams in the peace missions, primarily for the reasons that our surgeons have had a lot of care in the past under these wartime circumstances, under these extraordinary conditions and showed a high degree of professionalism. With that in mind, I can only conclude that what our doctors, our surgeons did to many colleagues from abroad, only learned from college. In this way, the presentation of what they know in the peace missions themselves makes them incomparably better and more desirable on the ground. I would no longer like to owe, I would sum up this exposure to the fact and the conclusion that participation in peacekeeping missions, with the active preservation of global peace and security, raises high credibility and VMA as Sanitary Institutions and the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia and the state as a whole. I would still refer first of all to the comments I heard about military health today. I agree that military and civil health are one system that only needs to be served once, and that is primarily the satisfaction of the user, i.e. the patient who needs to be at the centre of the system, but on the other hand, I also think that the key is primarily in the conversation and agreement at the level of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3003	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3004	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, nice creamworth, since the Serbian Army is very proud of its VMA, and in the context of what you have just said, Mr. Laketić, right in Lebanon, our military physician, in addition to the mission and the soldiers who are on the mission, next to the diplomatic representatives on that ground, is daily curing and all the residents of our mission, so that confirmation of the engagement of our people, the expertise of our people, our medical staff is looking at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3005	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3006	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Colonels, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the theme of the participation of our defence forces in peacekeeping operations is extremely important for the reasons of our close past and the fresh memory of all unfortunate events in the area of old Yugoslavia and KIM, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the media subject is very little written and very little is exploited by the media, so that this debate can open up many of the doubts that exist among our citizens, when it comes to the participation of our army in peace operations. We have absolutely the moral right to say -- no, gentlemen, after the double standards you have applied against Serbia and the Serbian people, we do not have to participate in these operations. Double standards in the old Yugoslavia were what was used either by international law for territorial integrity and sovereignty on the one hand or the right to self-determination of the people. When the problem of old Yugoslavia was, the international right of territorial integrity and sovereignty was used against the Serb people, and when KIM was taken away, then the right to self-determination was applied, both in the case of one and the other, always to the harm of the Serb people. Serbia has decided to turn to the future. Serbia has decided to define its interests and many things to forget and everything that was in some way unfair towards it. If someone felt the accident of civil war, the weight and those still fresh wounds, it's us. That's why we may be most sensitive to the subject and most of all we want to help in all those places where such accidents happen. Civil war is a great evil. You know how it starts, you know who's causing it, but you never know how long it's gonna last and how it's gonna end. The only thing that's known is that whoever causes it usually doesn't participate in it and usually doesn't and doesn't feel the misfortune of its duration. That is why our peacekeeping forces, which have always been highly appreciated by our army and our blue helmets were then at the Golan High and Most Respected, and today, I am sure, that in the world they will be among the more respected when they participate in these peace operations, have the task of being our ambassadors, have the task of extremely improving and contributing to the repairs of our reputation in the world on the one hand and our international legal and political situation. Serbia's army has always been respected in Serbia and has been among the first institutions. The people love their armies and always loved them. It's part of our tradition, our history. It's actually our character. What Milos Obrenovic said: "The Serbs do not give three things, which is a rifle, it is a woman and it is power". That's how we were raised, that's how we do it, that's how we respect it. On the other hand, the military's responsible work, seriousness, responsibility and discipline confirmed it. What's extremely important, we're starting with a small number of our forces. They were medical teams. The Military Academy has capabilities, has experience, knowledge and has broken through the ice of our defence forces, because these missions there are not only peace-making, they are humanitarian, above all. We came today to be able to send troops, which is very important, because that's when we use our logistics. Lower formations usually have to rely on the logistics of other countries, and then it's problematic, because it needs to be harmonised how our equipment, we need to coordinate training, and we need to coordinate, normally and know, language. It's easier this way, and we can act better this way. I am absolutely sure that the members of our forces who participate there will contribute to the reputation of our country in the world, contribute to the peace in these areas, contribute to the improvement of our legal-political situation and in some way, as our ambassadors there, in any case show all the values of this country in some both human and professional and military aspect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3007	I thank you, Dr. Blazic. The word of the Messenger of the people is Milan Dracun; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Zeljko Susec.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3008	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen officers, colleagues and colleagues, I would like, so little from the point of view of someone who has been dealing with security problems for almost 30 years, to give a few suggestions. They can be respected in the next period, and they don't have to, but I think I should take them out here. Many of the security challenges Serbia faces and in the coming period will increasingly face, such as, say, the presence of radical Islam of the jihadist movement, are internationalised, thus globalised. For the sake of effective defence against these challenges, joint action is necessary. This joint action is essentially taking place through multinational operations when it comes to the global stage. This aspect of the actions of a Serbian Army member in multinational operations cannot be at all controversial. It is needed and will become more and more expressive in the next period. I think we're going to have more and more needs and soldiers on those missions. However, it is on the stage to build a multipolar world on both political and economic terms and security. There's a system that we can conditionally call a global, collective security system, and it's made by the UN, primarily through the peace operations they're conducting. There are also regional security systems. One of them is, say, NATO. There is an organization of collective security arrangements led by Russia. There is a Shanghai Co-operation Organisation, where there are two extremely powerful countries – Russia and China and other countries. Cooperation with these systems is certainly necessary. Our priority in foreign policy is an opportunity in the EU, and in this sense, I think that in the coming period, as much as possible, we should participate in a common European defence and security policy, first of all through their missions. I would like the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence to say this from the aspect of the experience I have in the past year and a half as head of our parliamentary delegation in the Organisation of collective security arrangements, to consider and establish a mechanism for co-operation on the line of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army and the Organisation of collective security arrangements, because as a priority of its actions, this organisation has a fight against international terrorism, against organised crime, right in the environments in which there is an operation, for example. radical Islam and where radical terrorist groups are linked to similar movements and groups and on our territory in the region. During a recent stay in Kyrgyzian, Bishkek, on this topic, the Vice President of Afghanistan gave us very important information that I could not find anywhere in the public, in our votes, or in foreign media. I think that this co-operation, if established, would be on the line of what we already have with the NATO Pact, such as the Partnership for Peace, such as participation in some multinational exercises with NATO members. My second suggestion concerns planning. When such operations are planned, and any multinational activity, I don't think we should allow ourselves to be in a situation where members of our military participate where there are members of Kosovo's security forces or so on. Kosovo's armed forces, as happened during a recent exercise in late May at the US military base in Germany, where our soldiers participated in a joint exercise, where troops from Georgia were present, but were present and, they say, soldiers from Kosovo. When planning any of our activities abroad, I think we should make sure we don't get back into the same situation. Let me just remind you, Mr. Minister, the normalisation of the relations between Belgrade and Pristina under the Brussels process is taking place in the status of a neutral framework. Co-operation with the so-called Kosovo's armed forces are coming out of the framework. I would hate to get into a situation where, regardless of the different interpretations, whether we interpret in one way or another, the touch of our soldiers, members of our army with members of any armed formation with KIM, because in Resolution 1244, as far as military presence is concerned, it can only be an international character. One more thing. We have a search for common responses to international security challenges. I would like you to give us some information in the coming period about experiences and the practical benefits we have so far enjoyed from participation in certain missions, especially in North Africa, especially in this plan of combating international terrorism, to see what intelligence information has been exchanged, which has been learned by our members of that mission, so that we can feel more the importance of these missions and continue to support them even more intensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3009	The word has been given by MP Zeljko Sušec, as the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3010	The respected chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the defence ministry, participation of Serbian military members in UN and EU multinational operations is a good decision by previous governments. In the SNS parliamentary group, we have no problem commending all previous governments that worked in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. The participation of Serbian military members in UN and EU multinational operations is an important element of the military policy of the Republic of Serbia, fulfilling internationally recognised obligations as members of the UN and other international organisations to respect and preserve world, European and regional peace and security. Thus, the Republic of Serbia makes it clear to all countries in the world that it advocates resolving all disputes peacefully through respect for international law and other standards in international relations, all with the aim of strengthening the role of the international community. The adoption of an annual plan for the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2014 and a proposal for a decision on the participation of Serbia's military members in multinational operations in 2014, shortens the time of response to the UN's request and the EU's request, thus showing responsibility for further progress in its prosperity. Significant changes, when it comes to the engagement of members of Serbia's military abroad, will increase capacity in some missions, so peace missions in Lebanon, instead of water, should be a unit of the foot soldiers' rank. As for security, last year there was no threat to the security of members of the Serbian Army who were engaged in multinational operations and I hope and believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence will far more work on the security of their members in these missions and in the future. As for financial resources, the Republic of Serbia has defined 819m dinars for engagement in multinational operations, while the United Nations is participating with around 265m dinars. Once again, I am ordering this is of paramount importance to the Republic of Serbia. Armed Forces members of the Republika Srpska Army in all these actions become ambassadors to their country wherever they are engaged in the world. As for the defence ministry's mission, members of the defence ministry will be engaged in the United Nations peacekeeping operations in the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Republic of Liberia, the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Lebanon, the Middle East, the Western Sahara, the Republic of Mali Jam, Kashmir, South Sudan, the Middle East, and European Union Security Forces training missions in Uganda, the European Union military operations in Somalia, the European Union mission to train the Malian security forces. As for the European Union's mission to train Mali's security forces, we were in the past meeting, just under a year ago, discussing the proposal for a decision on the participation of 13 members of the Serbian Army who were involved in training the Serbian Army, who were involved in training Mali's security forces. Mali's security forces are fighting fundamentalist, terrorist groups that enjoy the great support of al-Qaeda and thus pose a great danger to all countries in the world. I purposely mentioned this because the Republic of Serbia is stopping, so members of the armed forces stand side by side with all other representatives of other countries from the world who are fighting Al-Qaeda as a cancer of the 21st century terrorism. Mr. Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Defence, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian Progressive Party MP group will be pleased to support the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2014, as well as the adoption of this year's plan on participation in multinational operations in 2014 as well as the adoption of this year's plan for participation in multinational operations in 2014. I would like to wish once again for happiness to all members of the armed forces of the Republic of Serbia who are participating in multinational operations in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3011	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Here you go. The word has a minister named Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3012	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the end, I would like to answer a few questions from Mr Drecun's MP regarding participation in EU missions and our greater engagement in EU missions. You need to know two things. When it comes to EU missions, and we participate in three of these years, three are planned, that is Atalanta, Somalia and with the German contingent – Mali, our budget is financed by 100% of our activities. When it comes to the UN, we also have a return of certain funds. As for what you mentioned about the participation of our water that was part of the Georgian contingent in Hokenfels, and there were stories in some media about the participation of so-called "The Hokenfels". Kosovo security structures. The form of participation wasn't the same. There were three people from the so-called. Kosovo security structures, but as observers. Not as participants, and on that occasion we were informed by the American side that they were not involved, and that is why we accepted the invitation to participate in this exercise. You said maybe we should step up in Lebanon and go to company level, not water level. We already have a company there that's part of the Spanish contingent, but we're strengthening this year along with the Italian contingent. We're sending a platoon to the West Sector, but as a security guard, a force protection platoon in Lebanon. We'll have one company both in one sector and in another. We'll have a security platoon in the east sector. That's the answers. I thank you for a very constructive and correct discussion today. I hope that in the voting day you will make the decision, because I think that this way we are helping the Serbian Army to come to what is very important by law, and that is the agreement and beginning of modernising Serbia's Army in the way that it really deserves it. In all these days, and many years ago, the Serbian Army has shown that it has always been with its people and always with its people. We expect to continue to work equally in the next period, and I will always be at my disposal when you invite me here to answer all your questions. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3013	I thank Mr. Bratislava Gasic, Minister of Defence, for active participation in today's session. I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 5 and 6 of the agenda. We move on to a search in particular – PROPOSAL OF THE CONSERVATION OF THE CONSUMER According to Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, with regard to the search in particular on the proposals for the laws of the 1, 2 and 3rd item of the agenda, I have called on the members of the Committee of Ministers of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Prof. Dr. Irina Reljin, Deputy Prime Minister for Telecommunications, Marija Vučić, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Vesna Novaković, Head of the Department for Trade, Prices and Protection of Consumers at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, and Dusco Djordjevic, Adviser at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Mirko Cikiriz, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Dr. Blagoje Bradić, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamović and Mr. Dejan Radenkovic and amendments of the Committee on Economy, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Development, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, and considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3014	As far as the subject matter of regulation of this law is concerned, I have done so using parallel legislation to help determine the subject matter of regulation of this law a little more precisely because, in my opinion, the basis for the protection of consumer interests is the protection of interest in buying and other forms of transport of products and services on the market. It is true that Article 1 states that this law regulates the rights and obligations of consumers, instruments and ways of protecting consumers, rights and obligations of associations and alliances whose scope of action is to achieve consumer protection objectives and information and consumer protection, improving the non-judicial resolution of consumer disputes, the rights and obligations of state bodies in the area of consumer protection and other issues of importance for consumer protection. What I suggested exists in some neighbouring countries. For example, Montenegro states that the Consumer Protection Act deals with, among other things, the protection of consumer rights when buying and other forms of transport of products on the market. However, they do not mention services, but, let's say, the Consumer Protection Act in Croatia says the law regulates the protection of consumers' basic rights in the purchase of products and services, as well as other forms of acquisition of products and services on the market. That's why I expected this well-intentioned and more precise formulation to be accepted by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3015	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has been sent by the people, Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3016	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I responded to Article 2 in the amendment. Proposal for a consumer protection law, which regulates the basic rights of consumers, and I have proposed that basic consumer rights should include both hygiene and health security in the facilities. Why do I feel that this should fall within the basic rights of consumers? Because in Serbia, sales facilities, both in smaller sales facilities and in mega-markets, are very poor hygiene conditions. If, Mr. Minister Ljajic, you were almost in the shops, you took a basket to buy fruit, vegetables or other food products, which your citizens, whose minister you are, cannot afford, you could see that those baskets and the cart you took were dirty. You said in your explanation that you did not accept the amendment for the reason that this member is incorporating a set of basic consumer rights from the UN Declaration, and the right proposed is not part of the Corps of these rights. You know what, Mr. Ljajic, in France, Germany and Great Britain, it's supposed to be those baskets you want to buy those products with are clean. The ones in Serbia are dirty. And that's not only true of domestic retail chains, but also of foreign ones, because they know that only in Serbia can they behave that way. You say this is not important because the International Declaration on Consumer Rights does not state this right. You are thus jeopardizing the rights of our children who, when they take these products and use those products from that basket you took dirty, can be threatened. So your explanation is very, very controversial and I think you should have accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3017	Thank you. Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3018	There are two reasons why we did not accept this amendment. The first you mentioned yourself is a set of practical recommendations, or instructions from the UN Declaration of the 1980s, which speaks of eight basic consumer rights and are now incorporated into the text of this law. The second reason what you are talking about is the subject of other laws, more specifically the Food Safety Act, Article 12, Article 48, Article 73, Article 79 of this law, which speaks of the matter you have spoken of and that the jurisdiction of the veterinary inspection in the control of the product is clearly highlighted. Secondly, this is also the subject of the 2011 Health Law of General Use, Article 16 and Article 47, which also speaks of concrete criminal needs for non-compliance with these legal norms. These are the only two reasons why the amendment has not been accepted, which has completely exceeded, which absolutely corresponds to what is in these two legal solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3019	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3020	You're technically right, Minister. But the safety and regularity of food is one thing, and the packaging in which that food is located is another thing, but here we are talking about the safety of the hygiene facilities where these products and the funds used to hand it over to the register. So these members you're talking about are talking about the correctness and safety of food.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3021	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3022	I would like to tell you that food security in Serbia is a big issue and it is not well regulated by legal solutions. I think that food security and food safety control should return to the health ministry's jurisdiction, not be in the jurisdiction of the agriculture ministry where it is now. You now have a situation where food control and safety are being done by inspectors from the Ministry of Agriculture, and these are some phyto-technicians, some inspectors who have no experience with the health procedure and the health control of food products. I must tell you that in the past too, I have initiated that the competent authorities on food safety control return to the health ministry sector and return to public health institutes because the competent laboratories of the Institute of Public Health are very well equipped. In particular, the laboratory at Nis of the Niš Institute of Public Health has a licence from Graz and products that would be reviewed at the Institute of Public Health in Nis could also be exported to European countries. I believe that a huge mistake was made when border controls were transferred and withdrawn so that public health institutes no longer have jurisdiction at border crossings and that food that is under question enters. So, I'm up for a change, that's all. to restore competence to the Resoring Ministry of Health and Public Health Resorts that have very well equipped laboratories and very well equipped cabinets that could cause food both in Serbia and at border crossings. That's one of my contributions to this discussion today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3023	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Dr Rasim Ljajic, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3024	Only in favor of your discussion. We had one of the meetings of the National Consumer Protection Council, which was dedicated to the affair with aflatoxin, and most of the members of that council were on the trail of this proposal to return to the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection, i.e. the Ministry of Health, in the domain of the Food Safety Act. It was then that a change was initiated, or amendment of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3025	Thank you. National MPs Dr. Blagoja Bradic and Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3026	Thank you very much. At the very beginning of the reasoning of this amendment, Mr. Chairman, given that you refer to other MPs as professors, and you refer to me as a doctor, I am a doctor, but I am also a professor of the state medical school, and that is what you see in your speaker's synopsis, so I ask you to refer to me as a title that I have gained with a hard time, unlike some who gain that title much faster. As far as this amendment is concerned, I would like to thank you Mr. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister for the adoption of this amendment, because if this law hadn't been adopted, it would have been quite impossible to implement it because in many other proposals of the law, members of this, otherwise well-written law, could have been challenged. I'll give you an example. In Europe, electricity consumers have much greater rights, if this amendment had not been adopted, also had Serbian citizens. For us, distribution excludes citizens of Serbia whenever they want and whenever they think of it, and it doesn't matter if there are 50 dinars, or if there are 5,000 debt, or five million debt, they are making an assessment against some personal analysis of who they will exclude and thus violating the consumer rights of our citizens. I will tell the citizens of Serbia that this is done in decent European countries. It's that if you owe the distribution for more than two months, the distribution has no right to exclude you. The distribution is then under obligation to send you a warning that you haven't paid two months' debt and that you have to settle it in the next period. After that, it takes another month, that means three months. Here are the rights that citizens of Europe have, which Serbia has violated in your mandate as well, and in our mandate they act as a state in a country where they do not respect the rights of citizens to pay for electricity. I thank you for accepting this amendment that practically prevents certain companies from going deaf about this, otherwise well done law and making it virtually impregnable. I thank and thank you for the previous finding where you said this initiative of mine, which was for the return of the Institute of Public Health to food control, was good food safety. There, it shows that out of the opposition as much as she hates it, as much as she is a mob, a thief, and as already declared, some good things are coming that are in the interest of the Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3027	I thank Professor Milisavljevic. I'd also like to thank you for your suggestion. You should make a request to accept you calling the professor and that in the system we have your calling so that I can address you like that. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted the 3rd amendment together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade and Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3028	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the essence of our amendment is as practical as the amendment that has already been accepted. So we wanted to avoid the possibility in the bill that certain specific laws could regulate relationships between consumers and traders. This formulation was accepted by colleagues. We think it's a good thing, this possibility that some other law of good things that are contained in this law are being avoided. I thank you for accepting the essentials of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3029	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikirizi. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade and Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3030	Mr. Minister, I think the government is in some way right about not accepting part of the proposed amendment, but I think I'm in some part of it, too. I think it may have been possible to carry out a legal-technical editorial of the amendment, which is why. In Article 5. I have proposed that the draft law in paragraph 1(7) indicate that goods are not sold in a limited or predetermined quantity and that the word "electric energy" is added, because they are referred to as heat energy, water and gas. Each of our consumers cannot know in advance how much they will spend on the monthly level neither electricity nor heat, nor water, nor gas. I specifically suggested this because the law in some other members where I mention water, gas and heat, mentions electricity. If it does so in other members of the law, then there is no reason not to do so in Article 5. It's a bill of law. As for my proposal to be in Article 5. The draft law of point 1 of point 20) to change and to read – that the illicit influence of the use of supremacy in relation to the consumer is by using pressure in a way that significantly restricts its ability to make a decision based on full notice whether fraud, force or threat have been applied. It is in the spirit of our approach that if our consumer is not already in a legal position where the consumer is in such a position to say after a day, two or three, a few days after the purchased goods, without any explanation, give the seller back the goods. I think maybe it was necessary to consider leaving such an option if there was an unauthorized influence and taking advantage of supremacy, and we know that in practice it happens often. As far as my remarks are concerned that the position, or definition of a specific consumer, should be deleted, I think the government is right not to accept that view because it is an international standard. What made me nervous about the definition of the average consumer is who determines that a consumer is average, averagely informed or informed less than average or above average. What is this organ, which is the face, and in what procedure, etc? But when it comes to international standards, we don't have any standards and I think the government is right in that part. I am saying that it may have been necessary for the legal and technical regulation of the amendments to accept my objection that in Article 5 paragraph 1 of point 7 to add the word "electric energy", and this in particular, given the life situation that I later and in some amendments suggested to regulate in a clearer way, that electricity users are good at general use, almost all households, almost all natural and legal persons in our country and therefore I say that there was room for this to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3031	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3032	The first part of your amendment for us was a fully acceptable and even more precise provision than the one we have in the text of our law. However, we could not accept the amendment halfway, and because of this second attitude, we had to reject the entire amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3033	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade and Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3034	First, Mr. Minister, let me thank you for your correctness. It's a good intention both yours and mine. I was absolutely aware that this second part of the amendment was not in the spirit of the law and I myself said that the government was right, as you were very correct and publicly stating that my solution in the first part of the amendment was more acceptable. As regards the amendment to Article 6. I have proposed to add point 2 of the bill of law to point out prices – that the trader may highlight two prices, regular and reduced. Reduced prices relate to seasonal reductions, sales, share sales, sales of products with error, products which highlight the time limit of use as well as other offers of traders where consumers can buy low-priced products. This is primarily because in practice we often encounter two types of prices. So, the trader points out one price, and then that price is crossed and below is the second price and writes down or action, etc. The government is right to say, and I knew this was regulated by the Trade Act. Since it is the Consumer Protection Act, I simply believe that most consumers will not be legally educated in this regard that if they care about the protection of their consumer rights and interests besides the Consumer Protection Act, they are still looking at the Law on Trade and many other laws that regulate this area. For this reason, I felt that the excess head did not hurt and that it was directed that such a provision would also stand in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3035	The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3036	In Article 11. The draft law, my amendment suggests that new positions should be added after Article 1: "The trader must not place on the market goods on which no information on the goods is highlighted (hereinafter referred to as the goods notice) in accordance with the law. If the special law does not otherwise provide for a notification of goods, it shall contain: 1st name or trade name under which the goods are sold; 2nd name and place of the manufacturer; 3rd name and place of establishment of the importer in the case of imports; 4th name of the country of origin of the goods; 5th information on the quantity, composition, quality, type and model of the goods, date of manufacture and period of use, method of use, maintenance and storage of goods and warning of possible risks related to the correct and incorrect use of the goods, depending on the nature of the goods. The information on the goods notification must be true, written in plain, clear, understandable and clearly visible. It shall be prohibited to remove or modify data from the goods notification. The trader is obliged to point out on each individual sample of goods, and in the case of goods of small value or inappropriate to highlight the notification on the collection package, i.e. at the place of sale. The provisions of this Article shall also apply to services, in a way that the notification of services, including warnings of risks associated with the provision of services, shall be made available to the consumer at the place of supply, i.e. the supply of services, or in another way, to the consumer. “ The government did not accept this amendment for reasons of Article 11. The draft law regulates the obligations of a trader in the half-life of the selling unit price of services in advertising, which is correct. Also, the solutions proposed by the amendment represent the content of a declaration prescribed by the Law on Trade, but there was no chapter in the bill where amendments could be intervened in this way. Again, as with the previous member, I felt that, if it is a dominant question of the Consumer Protection Act, that this law should contain these provisions, because of the fact that in our stores it remains largely a commodity and despite the existence of the Trade Act, which does not contain all the information, i.e. information on goods for which I am amending, I believe should exist. That's why I'm saying, I think if it's dominant of the Consumer Protection Act, that every consumer that gets informed about this law, I think they should meet one of these provisions. I am fully aware of this fact that legal-technical regulation, to accept this article, would have to change a lot of members, chapters, and I know that this would make a big imbalance in the proposed text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3037	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3038	In Article 12. The draft law, I proposed an amendment to add a new position after Article 6, which reads: "The trader is obliged to provide the consumer with a bill which is understandable for the supply of water, gas, heat and electricity, with the provision of unit prices of spent electricity or heat, unit prices of water or gas. The account must contain all information enabling the verification of the accounts of the services provided. “ The government in rejecting this amendment says that the amendment is not accepted for reasons of Article 91. The draft law regulates the specification issue for services provided of general economic interest, as well as the obligation for traders to provide information on the account of such services on the elements which allow the consumer to monitor the amount of its duty. The government's right. If viewed, Article 91. The bill, but I think my amendment is more precise and in the interest of a large number of consumers and our citizens. Now I'm going to tell you why, because similar provisions, and so far we've had in some laws, but we've also had in practice without pointing out what I've proposed to the amendment, that those who are calculating electricity, when you take away the bill that they've drawn up and you ask on the items what it is I owe, simply don't know that they're giving you a clear and unequivocal answer, or they don't know that they're breaking the bill they're issuing themselves. There were then many ministers who were asked questions about the electricity bill and the gas consumption by the consumer associations and the public. Minister, you're dissipating this account to us, and no minister, and no accounting officer could do it. When citizens intervene on "Electrodistribution" counters, or on counters where gas consumption is calculated, they face the same problems. An officer who's in charge of giving the citizen precise information about what his debt is for electricity or spent gas, doesn't know, shrugs his shoulders and says, I don't know, they gave it to me, and here it says how much you owe, and I have nothing to do with it. I think that kind of practice simply needs to be interrupted by a more precise formulation. What's a citizen supposed to be interested in? The citizen should be interested in the single price of electricity, for a more expensive tariff and a cheaper tariff, to look at his count, to multiply the energy spent for that month by the unit price of electricity and not needing either the counterman, nor the minister, because no one, because the citizen will know what he owes. We with this, in addition to the suspicion that citizens are paying for what they haven't spent, harass citizens, especially pensioners who know what the state is, who are the first to receive pensions on counters, to settle their obligations to the consumption of electricity, gas and all other communal obligations. In addition to cutting off all citizens and using the monopoly position again, both with EPS and "Serbiagas" and "Post", we are simply harassing our citizens. I think the account in the way I suggested, should be absolutely understandable, that the kid in the second or third grade of elementary school might know that he's growing up. I've met countless times with complaints from citizens, and since we're dealing with, like you, ministers, public affairs, then it's our responsibility, because they say, why don't you intervene in the Assembly, why don't you say that our country is doing unfairly, as far as electricity is concerned. I'm taking this opportunity to convey to you the full request of citizens, because other than the amendment to react, I couldn't find. Secondly, there's an countless situations, a citizen comes in, he gets sick of everything, he gets some interest all the time, and no one knows at the EPS to tell you what a hired force is. As a consumer of electricity, I'm not interested in the definition of employed power, but as much as I've spent electricity and what's the price of a unitary rate and to pay it, then you have the hired power, and then some taxes. I think this way probably EPS, using a monopoly position, the citizens are being cut off. On the other hand, citizens get sick of it. They come to the Elektro-distribution counter and it says like this: “I want to settle all the debts I have to you. ” The official on the counter accounts for all debts, the citizen pays off, and by next month, a new bill for spent electricity, in addition to the debt for the previous month, the citizen gets some back debt again and again when he comes to the counter, the game of deaf phones arises again, so he asks the citizen a simple question: “If I paid off all my debts to you last month, what are the defaults again? “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” I think this is absolutely about the abuse of Serbia's monopoly position, and I think it should be fair to say if, on the basis of just earnings for spent, delivered electricity, Electricity cannot do well, cannot invest in development, etc. then it should be said that citizens, in addition to paying actual electricity, pay development fees, maintenance infrastructure, etc. Don't just let the citizens get into a situation where they pay for something that God knows what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3039	Thank you. The Vice-President of the Government Dr. Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3040	It's probably true that your amendment is more precise, but this member of ours, in fact, this provision is more flexible. This is done for the reason that this is still a general roof law, which is why we cannot regulate this law in the way that you have now defined here, that it is nevertheless the subject of some other regulations, depending on the area you mentioned, whether it is electricity, gas, heat energy, etc. So we felt that we had one standard that was broad enough to represent a legal framework, and that everything else was defined by regulations depending on the area you were talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3041	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic - Korac and Aleksandar Senic. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3042	The substance of this amendment that we have proposed was to ensure a greater level of consumer information on goods and services and thus to achieve better preventive protection of their rights and obligations. What is essential, perhaps citizens who do not know this, was that the notice was highlighted, next to the Serbian language, in a language that the consumer understood. By accepting another amendment, it is envisioned that now, in addition to the Serbian language, the language of national minorities should be used in accordance with the law. Also, in the reasons for the ministry's refusal, it has been stated that some of the things we asked to define and commit traders, and this law said it was already part of a mandatory declaration done by the Law on Trade. I am only sorry that this argument does not make it clear which part of what we have proposed is a mandatory content of the declaration in accordance with the Law on Trade and whether there may have been an opportunity and a place for some of these things that we have proposed to be accepted, or perhaps through some amendment committee, what kind of practice, this law is advanced. In any case, we wanted to make it clear to citizens as consumers before they contract and pay for a particular product or service, in the best way possible to inform about the content of the product or service they buy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3043	Thank you. The word came from Vice President Vladedr. Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3044	It is literally all that you have suggested in the amendment that it is required by the trader to have all this information on the declaration which is subject to your amendment. There is almost no word, or attitude that is not incorporated into the Law on Trade, in that part that speaks of the mandatory content of the declaration on the product.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3045	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dizdarevic and Enis Imamovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic – Korac and Aleksandar Senic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3046	The essence of this amendment is to inform consumers of the potential danger or harmfulness to the lives and health of people, i.e. the environment. I think there are a number of products in which it is extremely important for the consumer to be informed of the harmfulness and dangers before buying a particular product. The reason for the adoption of this amendment is that the opposite of Directive 2005-29 of the European Community, which provides for some maximum harmonisation and in order to disrupt the smooth functioning of the internal markets. I do not understand why, since we are all aware that in the large amount of goods offered today there is also one that poses a potential danger to the lives and health of people and the environment and that there was room for this obligation to be found in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3047	Thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3048	Dear Chairman, distinguished ministers, you probably know the fact that in Serbia 16,000 people die annually from tobacco smoke, that is, active and passive smoking and inhaling tobacco smoke. Mr. Ljajic, you probably know that this is the number of people who correspond to the size of the Trieste. You probably know that, Mr. Ljajic, there are four and a half thousand new cancer patients whose cause is tobacco smoke. You probably know that 55% of children of school age in Serbia are actively, daily or occasionally smoking cigarettes. It was an introduction that would explain the amendment I submitted to the Consumer Protection Act. On Article 24 after Article 1 I suggested adding a new position 2. Otherwise, it is a chapter that speaks about the protection of underage consumers. I suggested adding a new position: "It is forbidden to expose alcoholic beverages, including beer, i.e. tobacco products and pyrotechnics at a distance of less than 5 metres in megamarkets and less than 3 metres away in other sales facilities than the collection register. This prohibition does not apply to sales facilities of less than 10 square metres. “ I don’t know how many of your ministerial obligations allow you to go to megamarkets in the first place? Were you recently in a retail facility, Mr. Ljajic? If you were, you could notice that almost above the head of a saleswoman or a saleswoman there are windows in which tobacco products. These windows are interesting, i.e. well-formed visual identity that attracts customers, especially underage customers. So these products are almost offered. They're here at arm's length. That, Mr. Ljajic, is not in any EU country. That is only possible in the country of Serbia. Mr. Ljajic, you have rejected this amendment probably so as not to resent cigarette manufacturers who have exclusive contracts with wholesale facilities, or distribution houses, by which these products should stand right there, at the hands of minors who, as I said, smoke 55% of minors in Serbia. You refused to accept that amendment. For what reason, tell me? I'll use a little time from the MPs' group. So, in my explanation, I wrote the following – it became almost common practice for tobacco products, and slightly rarer and alcoholic beverages, exhibited next to the cash register in sales facilities. The windows most often contain attractive visual messages that send a message to minors about the preference of buying these products, harmful to their health. If they go into the store to buy some other products, they can't go past the advertising boards every time. The often mentioned windows are located above the salespeople's heads, as I said, which is a special message to underage customers. And then I explained, since it's obvious that such contracts exist, probably your colleague, let me say, that it's very convenient to take cigarettes from those windows so easily. That's right. But I just think it should be the other way around, that these products are on the other end of those megamarkets, so underage faces don't always come to the temptation to buy cigarettes. Therefore, Mr Ljajic, considering 16,000 people who die annually in Serbia as a result of tobacco smoke, or smoking, I suggest you reconsider and accept this amendment. On the other hand, I'm asking you, if you're going to give an answer as to why you didn't accept this amendment, is it true that the Serbian Government does not fully apply the tobacco smoke protection Act? I ask the chairman, since she is not his secretary, is it true that the law on protection against tobacco smoke is incorrectly applied in the Serbian Parliament? This assembly is a legislative body, it makes laws, and these laws should be applied. I'm going to give this as a special parliamentary question, so I'm going to ask you an answer. I call on competent inspections to visit the Serbian government, without bypassing some of those from this party or that party, to go through all of them and see if this law is respected and I invite them to come to our Parliament club and visit the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to see if the tobacco smoke protection law is adequately applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3049	Thank you. Dr. Rasim Ljajic picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3050	Mr. Vesenovicu, Article 24, says very clearly that it is prohibited to sell, serve and offer alcoholic beverages, including beer, i.e. tobacco products and pyrotechnic means to persons under 18 years of age. All of this other stuff you've been saying is simply the subject of other regulations and laws. In part, it was regulated by the Law on Tobacco, in part by the Law on Trade, as well as by some other legal regulations. It's simply not the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3051	Thank you. The word is by Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3052	Your Honor's chairman, you have a time when I signed up. I signed up while Mr. Djurisic explained the previous amendment. A few things only, I support this amendment, and I support this amendment by Mr. Janko Veselinovic. I mean, when Mr. Djurisic talked about product safety on the Serbian market, I agree. I think citizens also notice that as a country, we are like one store for some less quality products that cannot be sold in Europe, so they are sold in Serbia, and in Serbia they will buy everything and eat everything and have unquality TVs and non-quality products. I advocate that one national laboratory be created to control the quality of both the shoes and the electrical devices, and not to have tablets of computers that are very often broken down, which you have through mobile operators that share Serbia's citizens, so you have a lot of advertising on it, as if someone who has a second or third series of products has nowhere to sell it in America and Europe, but there's Serbia, we're going to swallow everything and we don't have it clearly controlled. In Serbia, as far as I know, there is a laboratory called "Jugoexpert" that gives a certificate to the quality of the product. I have information that it is privatised and that it is privatised precisely by a company that sells and imports certain goods into Serbia. I'm betting that we have a national, that the state of Serbia, the Republic government has its own national laboratory to control all the products of shoes, T-shirts, toys, because our children play with different toys that have toxic colors. There may be a problem. For example, we had an affair that some toys from some Asian countries, which used some toxic colors, appeared in Europe, so they were withdrawn. I just want to point out, what Mr. Djurisic was saying, where there's a lot of logic, that we have a lot of examples that we in Serbia don't have quality products, as if we're a country for waste of some second-ranked, third-ranked products and that, if we created this one national laboratory, we would contribute to protecting citizens, practically protecting the quality that is sold in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3053	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3054	From what I understand, the amendment is to Article 24. By the way, I suggested something to Mr. Ljajic, but I'm happy with how they responded to me. I was pushing for the amendment to be introduced – and games of chance, but it was already regulated by some other law, in fact, by the law on gambling, so that Mr. Ljajic could accept it, although I wanted it to be strengthened. I've been talking about a distance of about five or three meters, etc., to be a distance, let's say, pyrotechnic means or tobacco products from the register, etc., it's kind of pointless. Why? Because you certainly can't find pyrotechnics in the store, but there's a specialized store that wants to buy it, so I don't know why this is listed here. On the other hand, there are little markets here. Now you're looking for special rooms for them where people survive from that little market, now you're asking him to make some special compartments in the room itself, which is very awkward. We've had a senseless provision in our time, just mentioning the law on gambling, I don't know why someone acted, which is that the bookies are 200 meters from school. It didn't bring any effect, absolutely none, because whoever wants to bet will definitely go that 100 or 200 meters away, or it won't be hard for him to walk, and it's certainly forbidden for a minor to enter a bookie. Someone here wanted to run a campaign like that. And I think it's a little bit made to run a little campaign here, a little marketing. I agree that this has to be arranged in some way, but this is the subject of some other law, not the Consumer Protection Act. For that reason, this could not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3055	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3056	I'm just trying to explain. The esteemed debater had not read the amendment before me or listened carefully. I have clearly written in the amendment a proposal to prohibit the exposure of alcoholic beverages, including beer, i.e. tobacco products and pyrotechnic means at a distance of less than five metres in megamarkets and less than three metres away in other sales facilities than the collection register. This ban does not apply to sales facilities of less than ten square metres, so this problem is overcome. I had in mind smaller objects in which it would be a problem to realize. On the other hand, it is not true that this provision concerning pyrotechnics is also sold in some megamarkets. If that were the case, this also confirms the previous position of this proposed law, where it is said that it is prohibited to sell to minors, etc., pyrotechnics, tobacco products, etc., so that I have introduced only this previous position with another additional prohibition, which would refer to the exposure of these same products in this distance for the reasons I have stated. This isn't any marketing. If you think marketing is the protection of Serbian citizens from these products that are harmful to health, child protection, youth and those who may be the most unconscious use of these products, then let it be marketing. If the protection and rescue is at least one out of 13,000 people who die annually from tobacco smoke, then let's make it a marketing, and you explain to your voters how you advocate them and what way you make the proposal, whether they might be sharing free cigarettes and alcoholic products on cash registers, so maybe it would satisfy your interests and give a new message to your potential voters. I don't think that this is a responsible policy and that this policy is harmful to Serbian citizens, and it may be useful for populist purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3057	National MP Vladimir Djukanovic, misread, replica. Here you go. That closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3058	I don't know why someone like this figured this out a little bit and a little bit and a little bit, but okay. I assume you wanted something like this while you were in charge when you were so worried about all these people. Here I'm saying this is clean marketing because when you say objects less than 10 square meters, yes, I agree, but how many objects do you have that are 15, 16, 17 square meters, so where do you think you're doing something like this? As for pyrotechnic means, I apologize, if you know that some megamarket sells pyrotechnics, I'd like you to report it, because it's impossible. There are specialized shops where you can buy such a thing or shops that are engaged in the sale of military equipment or weapons and what they have a license for, but it's impossible for you to find a torch, fireworks or something in a megamarket. I think it's out of my mind, so I don't see why you brought something like this in. As for the sharing of alcohol and cigarettes, I will remind you of a distinguished colleague, in your time we have had the greatest possible increase in alcoholism, unfortunately, and in a minor and God to me, and in a younger adult, so that you were able to carry out that protection while you were in power, and unfortunately, you have given up such a vice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3059	Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy adopted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3060	I think it's extremely good that this amendment has been accepted. I'll tell you what's going on. Thus, a new position in Article 26 is added, which says: “The conditions of sale of goods or the provision of services by selling other goods or by providing other services are prohibited. ” We have witnessed that in some cases such things have happened, and now with a clear legal provision traders or service providers will no longer be able to condition the sale of one product or service condition the sale of another. We thank the Ministry for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3061	The word has the People's MP Dusan Milisavljevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3062	It's a good thing you accepted Mr. Djurisic's amendment. Many citizens have come to me and are asking for the protection of the resolution ministry because they believe that they are violating their consumer rights with mobile operators. They believe that in many European countries you have the right to terminate the contract before the deadline, and here if you want to terminate the contract before the deadline, you are obliged to pay off a two-year contract or, in some cases, a three-year contract. This directly leads to consumer rights violations that have a completely different way in Europe. So there are opportunities when you have the right to terminate the contract, not to be bound by a mobile operator by you being able to do so, but to pay off your contractual obligations in 24 or 36 months. That's one example. We may be able to commit mobile operators with this amendment member, if the customer, if the citizen wants to terminate the contract that there is no need to pay the contractual obligation for a year and a half, two days if he considers that his service, that operator, is bad and that he does not meet his criteria and that maybe another operator has better conditions. I think there's a monopoly of operating houses here and it's to the detriment of citizens who have rights. I advocate, if this amendment has been adopted, to be applied specifically in this case, since we have a solid number of Nish citizens talking to me and saying – say why we have to pay 24 wars, if another company offers better conditions and we have the right to stop if it is done in other European countries. That's what they told me, and I passed it on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3063	The word has been made by MP Mirko Chikiriz, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3064	I think it's really good that the government in this part has reflected what exists in everyday life, because retailers are often conditioned by wholesalers to buy in addition to what they need for their shop and other goods... (President: Mr Chikiriz, are you talking about your amendment or this former MP, Marko Djurisic, submitted? I speak according to the amendment submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Often in practice, the situation was met, and this was often complained to us by gas station owners, that in addition to buying fuel, fuel purchases are conditioned by selling oil that they absolutely do not need. I expected, and then with the amendment to Article 26, as a very good amendment has been accepted in this part, that everything that goes in the spirit of consumer protection should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3065	The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3066	Just one introductory note. As with accepting this good amendment, I was just looking for, while Mr. Becic chaired, about the electricity bill, spent gas, etc... I think that we really need more respect for what life is, and if it is already on the agenda of the Consumer Protection Act, then we cannot at all by some provision, which has been clear and inaccurate before, and in practice we have come to the use of a general provision that is not precise. So we're talking about bills for spent electricity and spent gas. Now I'm moving on to this amendment. I think the government should have accepted this amendment, and here's the thing. In Article 26(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The bill, following the government's proposal, which said: "The trader is obliged to provide the consumer with the goods to an exact extent, the quantity and to allow him to verify that accuracy. “ It’s okay. I propose adding the words that read: "The trader is obliged to hand over the product of the prescribed, or contracted quality to the consumer. If the quality is not prescribed, or agreed, then the normal quality with a notification of goods, or services, conformity documents, other documentation, price information, in accordance with established or calculated criteria, i.e. at the agreed price in a manner and within the time limits laid down by law or contract.’ By rejecting this amendment, the government says the 46th issue has been kind of regulated. In a way, yes, in part, but not entirely, because Article 46 states that the seller is obliged to hand over the goods to the consumer in the amount and quality of the contract. I'm making this very clear, and what if it wasn't agreed quality? Therefore, the prescribed quality, i.e. the usual quality and plus, in the light of the situation on our market, should, in my opinion, go to information on goods, services, documents, compliance with other documentation and information at the price and in accordance with established or calculated criteria, i.e. at the agreed price in a manner and within the time limits laid down by law or contract. For what? I think we are all aware of the absolute situation on our market and of what is produced on our market that does not meet standards and quality, which is all imported on our market which does not meet standards and quality. If you ask an average citizen if he suspects the quality and certification of goods coming from Germany, Britain, France, Switzerland, Japan, America, everyone will say no. Do you doubt the quality of our goods and standards, they'll tell you most often those older citizens used to be JUS as a good standard, and then it all went the other way. It seems to me that citizens face various frauds and deceptions every day when buying different types of goods and paying for different types of services. It happens to buy shoes that work first rain simply leaks water. So it's not prescribed quality. Desi buy a sunscreen that doesn't have a protective factor that's prescribed to buy perfume that goes out after five or ten minutes, to buy a drug that has no properties, although it seems to me that there's even the best protection, that a particular product doesn't fit even the geographical origin, or the brand, etc. I, of course, looked at Article 46 of the Law, and I saw that it was a quality that was agreed, but what I did with the amendment was not specific, in the best possible intention, that if quality is not agreed, it would be prescribed, or the usual quality, with all the necessary notifications. As a consumer, when I buy certain goods, I have to have all the notices of goods on the label – importer, quality, composition, duration, etc. That, often with our goods and in our market, is not. So I ask the Ministers to reconsider accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3067	Thank you. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have submitted an amendment to Article 30. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3068	The Honorable Chairman, Honored Ministers, today we have discussed three amendments of a multilingual nature and the first of the amendments is for Article 30(4). After the word ‘or the supply of heat’ to add the word ‘start’. The proposed amendment shall implement practical corrections with regard to certain language precisions set out in this Article, thereby adopting and proposing this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3069	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3070	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, Mr Ljajic, this amendment stems from the amendment that I have already proposed, and as regards the necessity that sales facilities, and here I have added to the catering facilities meet the requirements of the hygiene, health and safety of consumers. Minister Ljajic explained why the government did not accept the earlier amendment said it was regulated in some other laws. This is true, but some of the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act are incorporated into that law and from some other laws, and even some of the standards that are the constitutional category. I therefore believe that it was also necessary in this Consumer Protection Act to fully regulate consumer rights and, if necessary, repeat the need for sales facilities and catering to meet the requirements of hygiene and health security. We know the current situation in the catering facilities in Serbia. It is not a great situation in the health security of users of these services, and it is not so rare that consumers or guests are at risk. The more underdeveloped the environment is the conditions in these less-favoured catering facilities. Not to mention the state of the toilets and emergency rooms, but above all, I'm also thinking about the state of the kitchen where the food is being prepared. It is true that this issue is governed by laws concerning the safety of food law and it is not disputed. However, in this area when it comes to consumer protection, these are provisions that should be incorporated into this law because these are consumer rights which, if threatened, will directly affect their health. Of course, it's harmful if you're cut off on a vase. It is harmful if you are cut off at a sales facility for another question, unless you are issued a fiscal bill and then you cannot advertise your product if it is incorrect. If this affects your health, then the consequences are much more drastic and therefore I believe that this segment in the law is not strong enough and that it does not send a sufficient message to service providers, i.e. sellers to protect health, i.e. to ensure that consumer hygiene and safety are at a higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3071	The word has the People's MP Dusan Milisavljevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3072	I'll do it very briefly. I support Mr. Veseinovic's amendment, and I will give one example that threatens the safety of Serbian citizens, and in many catering facilities we all have the opportunity to meet such a situation, which is that the person who gives you food, who literally takes part of your breakfast or lunch or anything after that, collects your bill. He comes in contact with the money, and as I tell you, the money is the dirtiest. So he can't take the same person's food and take the money. This time I use this announcement to tell Serbian citizens that if they are in such a situation, they should warn a person who literally threatens their health. It must not be the same person who collects and gives you a food product, so I support this amendment, and I also draw attention to it, this is the first unculture of people who serve food and this is something that we have to sanction, which the owners of the facilities should certainly take care of, but also that sanitary inspections take account of and that such persons punish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3073	Thank you. The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3074	So that there is no confusion, because this issue is not only repeated today, but also in the debate in principle, the Consumer Protection Act everywhere, and also with us, protects, above all, the economic interests of consumers, or customers. Dominantly, not only, but dominantly, it aims to protect consumers because of the unequal position of traders and consumers. All these questions about food safety and product safety are regulated by other laws and you know it well. As for the conditions for performance, which you are now talking about, they are regulated in chapter 4. The law on trade, where, among other things, is clearly stated in paragraph 2 – the conditions laid down by this law, which are specific rules, hygiene-sanitary conditions, safety and health conditions at work, environmental conditions, prescribed technical requirements, etc., etc. So this law has incorporated all European Union directives in this area. This law has recognised what consumer protection associations have pointed out through public debate as necessary, important and as sufficient corpus and a sufficient legal basis to protect consumer interests, but in a way that does not endanger the interest and trader. That is, this law protects consumers, but it does not harm traders, and I think we have managed to achieve this balance by these provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3075	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 109, was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 112, was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted the amendment to Article 124. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3076	This is about a completely technical amendment, i.e. precise regulation of who consumers are. This member says it is the National Assembly, the Government, the Ministry, the National Consumer Protection Council, other ministries and regulatory bodies that have competences in the area of consumer protection. We have only suggested that two words be inserted - regulatory bodies that have the law of jurisdiction. I find it quite unusual for the amendment to be rejected by reason that the issue should be subject to a special law which educates that regulatory body. It was precisely our wish to clarify this member, that the regulatory bodies considered to be the consumer protection bearer of this law should be those regulatory bodies which are provided for by the law on their education to be in charge of the protection of rights, so that we do not know for what reason this amendment has been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3077	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3078	Mr. Djurishic, I must tell you that this amendment was rejected by mistake. We accepted the amendment, but in the legal-technical order, when we sent to the government, it turned out that the amendment was rejected, so we accept the amendment and in the voting day we'll say it's being voted for.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3079	I find the minister has accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted the amendment to Article 128. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3080	Once again, I would like to thank the Minister for accepting the previous amendment. This amendment and the next few practically define the relationship between the Council, the composition and competence of the National Consumer Protection Council, the Ministry and the Consumer Council members in the order of registered associations and councils. First of all, I would like to say that we wrote these amendments on the basis of remarks brought by the Anti-Corruption Agency on the draft law during the 2013 debate. The agency then felt that there were great discretionary powers of the ministry on this matter. So, about enrollment in association and alliance records, how representatives of associations and alliances are determined in the National Consumer Protection Council and how the Ministry assists the work of associations and alliances in accordance with the law. The essence of our amendments was that this law, rather than the sublegal documents, was to define these issues more clearly and to make it more practical and more clear to define the ministry's discretionary rights, because it is one of the preconditions for less corruption, or for a more successful fight against corruption. In this respect, this amendment refers primarily to the fact that, unlike the proposal that only one third of the composition of the National Consumer Protection Council be of the order of registered associations and associations dealing with consumer protection, it is one half of these members, and that members of the Council from the ranks of representatives of registered associations and alliances are not elected by the Ministry, but rather by associations and alliances to propose their own members in the Consumer Council. So, the ministry's role should be eliminated, which is based solely on the proposal to determine who the members would be. Based on the Agency's opinion, we think these are better solutions that allow more transparent work and the Ministry and the National Council and the work and records of associations and associations dealing with consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3081	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3082	As far as the Agency's objections are concerned, and last time I was saying that it was an objection related to the establishment of an alternative consumer dispute settlement centre, which was in the original version of the draft law. We've completely thrown that center out, as you've seen, so this obstacle, or the Agency's observation, has been removed. As far as the other proposals contained in these amendments are concerned, firstly, are formal matters. Therefore, the Council will propose members to the National Council, and the Government will only formally accept, i.e. appoint those members proposed by the Council. The government will not elect members from the consumer protection organisation's order, but will formally appoint them once it has received a proposal from the council made up of representatives of the consumer protection association. Other things will be defined by sublaws. This law actually had one goal to strengthen the consumer movement. It seems to me that we have succeeded in largely separating these provisions of the law from associations that are dominantly engaged in consumer protection from associations dealing with different areas and therefore will be a category of registered associations that will be able to participate in the work of the Council, the National Council, which will be able to compete for funds, but also lay down very clear criteria for the entry of these associations. In other words, we introduce the principle of the legitimacy of these associations, to know who they represent and in what way, which means that they must meet the relevant technical, administrative, professional and personnel capacities. This law allows it. Associations remain the main partner of the state in the area of consumer protection, not only through the National Council, but also through the fact that registered associations will also be funded and that they will be able to compete with projects to use these budgets.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3083	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted the amendment to Article 133. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3084	It is this amendment to Article 133 that the minister said would be governed by a sublegal act and that is why this amendment, even if it stands in reason, has been rejected. It was just the agency's suggestion that, and this member is talking about the registration procedure, the agency's suggestion was to take this procedure and what it takes to get an association or alliance registered to regulate the law by means of a sublegal act as one of the most successful and better fight against corruption. In that sense, we have proposed to add one position in Article 133 which says what all the records of the members contain, means, the name of the association, the date of the registration, the date of registration, the statute, the home number, the tax identification number, the address, the telephone, the address, the website, the e-mail, the name and the name of the representatives, the bodies and members of the association or members of the associations, the projects. Within the meaning of Article 136, the name of the representative of the association, i.e. the alliance which is a member of the National Council, the name and name of the representative of the association, or the alliance in the Consumer Council. Although the minister has now reiterated in the reasons for rejecting this amendment, it is said that it will be resolved by a sublegal act, we continue to think that since all these things will be found in this sublegal act that a better solution is to find it in the law itself, because this is how greater transparency is achieved in the work of the state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3085	Thank you. The 134th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Aleksandar Senic. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy has not adopted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3086	This member and amendments concern the conditions for enrolment and the minister said something about it that should be monitored which alliances or associations really work and exist, participate in some projects and how budget and other funds are spent. That is exactly what our amendment is saying that in one of the conditions for enrolment is that in the area of consumer protection it has been active for at least three years and has led at least one or participated as a partner in at least three projects in the area of consumer protection. Some more changes in technical character in this article, but I think it is important that the law stipulate that, in the work of the Consumer Council as president of the association or alliance, they are really associations or alliances active in protecting consumers, and some fictitious associations that may at one point have been established have practically provided themselves with representation in the national council, and then, in the time period, do nothing to protect consumers, and I think it is a shame if this amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3087	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3088	Thank you, Chairman. Following the comparative legislation, I noticed that in Italy they regulated the Consumer Protection Act in this provision in the way I suggested, that from the percentages of penalties paid by traders and service providers, part of those penalties go towards financing and the work of associations and alliances dealing with consumer protection. Since he's a member of 136. The bill regulated that activities of registered associations, i.e. alliances, could be financed or co-financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget with this law, strategy and work plan, and I proposed that the sublaw of the Government determine which percentage of the penalties paid be paid to registered associations, i.e. alliances and by what criteria, in order to achieve two effects. First, if associations dealing with the protection of consumer interests get another source of funding to improve their work, education of consumers and also traders in order to carry out other jobs, market surveillance, dispute resolution, etc. Associations and alliances that deal not only with us but also with consumer protection worldwide face similar types of problems regardless of market development, rich supply and demand, quality of services, service prices. But the ultimate goal, and I think of the Ministry's proposal, is in principle good because it contains in principle all the European directives that are necessary. Our ultimate goal is to get one satisfied citizen who lives in a normally regulated system, and that's why I wanted us to find another source of funding for these associations and alliances. The most common problems facing consumers in the world and in our country are the supply of goods, broken products, prices, monopolies, payment methods, especially for housing loans and financial credits to banks, the increase in online fraud, i.e. online purchases. Problems are numerous with sales contracts, with service providers, especially tourism services, housing management, telecommunications, postal services. We only know what the problems were until we had competition with mobile operators and how expensive these services were in the beginning and how often we were surprised by ourselves when we saw abroad how much cheaper this type of service was at the beginning. Then, the absence of competition, in the insurance contract, are often hidden general and special conditions which provide shelters to citizens when the insurance contract is concluded. There are big objections, especially with us, which we have often pointed out, which we do not have competition in health insurance. Objections are with patients' rights, etc. If the amendment cannot be accepted for legal technical reasons, I accept that argument because I am absolutely aware of what kind of disturbances in the draft law would have to be made in order to accept such an amendment. I just didn't have any other way of making an amendment intervention and trying to find a job and another source of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3089	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3090	We, in the Consumer Protection Strategy, provided for in the proposal, in fact, for one budget fund, from which to finance, among other things, consumer protection organisations. However, the finance ministry absolutely refused that possibility, so there was now no chance that by sublegal act of the government we define that part of the penalty goes to the accounts of consumer protection organisations. They were their demands in the public debate, but we explained to them that at this point it was impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3091	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted together to the 136th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted the 137th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3092	This is in line with a clearer definition of the relationship between the Consumer Council, the Ministry and the Association. It is said here that in determining the fulfilment of the requirements for deleting from the records, the ministry will be obliged to request the opinion of the Consumer Council. We have suggested that there be a word of "consultation" because we think this is a more appropriate relationship between the Ministry and the Council. The ministry did not propose, calling on the way in which the Consumer Council is defined to act in accordance with this opinion, or when it comes from the Ministry to request an opinion to delete the records, calling for the next member, which we have also changed by amendment, so that this amendment and the next amendment are conditional and make sense if they are accepted in the package. We believe that this solution is better and better established by the Ministry and Consumer Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3093	The 138th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Aleksandar Senic. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted the amendment to Article 139. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3094	We believe that this is an important proposal to amend Article 139, or to supplement Article 139. This member speaks of the National Register of Consumer Objections. He predicts that the ministry is running the National Registry and that once a year, and no later than 1 March of the current year for the previous year, the ministry publicly announces and delivers a report to the national council on the work of the National Register of Consumer Objections. What we have predicted is that the National Register of Consumer Objections is being published on the Ministry's website, and that it contains data on the type of rights that has been violated, the manner of injury, the measures taken to protect and legal aid provided. This register could, according to our proposal, contain other information specified by the minister. The reason for the refusal of this amendment, as it is in the Government's opinion, is that, if the records were to be kept in this way, it would publish the contents of the National Register in order to violate the protection of personal data and the content of this register is in line with the European Consumer Register. Our idea was that this register was public and that everyone could make an insight into it, the purpose was to prevent certain problems that could arise from the relationship between the trader or the service provider and the consumer and thus reduce the possibility that some abuse could be repeated over time, because it would be a way for traders and consumers to inform each other in a way that, if they find themselves in a similar situation, the state had acted. We believe that data that would threaten the protection of personal data can be protected, that not all of this data is contained in this register, that in a certain way through the regulation, in order for that register to be presented to the Internet, you will be expelled from the data, but that what is the essence, which has been disputed and how this dispute has been resolved, also helps citizens and traders to better implement this law in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3095	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 141st amendment. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Aleksandar Senic submitted the amendment to Article 142. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) (The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić, from the place: I answered and you gave me no word. You didn't sign up. (National Ambassador Blagoja Bradic, from the post: I answered neatly to speak according to amendment 139.) No, you just signed up. I didn't turn you off, I didn't touch the instrument. And by what amendment did you want, I didn't hear you? (National Ambassador Blagoja Bradić, from the post: Yes, by amendment to Article 139) We've been through this a long time. (National Ambassador Blagoje Bradic, from the post: We passed 30 seconds ago. I can't give you my word, I'd break the Rules of Procedure. (The People's Messenger Blagoje Bradic, from the place: Okay, okay. Thank you and I apologize. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac and Aleksandar Senic. The government and the Committee on Business, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3096	This amendment and the previous amendment that I have not responded to define in a different way the conduct of consumer disputes and in another way define the procedure outside the court...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3097	Please sign in again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3098	... We have suggested that, in another way, a little more detailed legislation be defined by how the non-judicial dispute resolution is resolved, and the Ministry has rejected this bill, or amendment, said that this is governed by Article 144, and we thought that through these two articles 141 and 142, this issue is defined in another way that it is not proposed, but I think that time will show that these solutions may have been better and in particular this amendment to Article 142 is a alignment with the idea that we had in the amendment to Article 141.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3099	Dr. National MP Blagoja Bradic came forward for the word, please be my guest for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3100	There were stories about this amendment on the Committee as well. I would insist with the MPs, because when we all get out of this room, we will be consumers, and we will be the ones who use the benefits of this law, and this law will protect us, besides the other citizens of Serbia, because we are consumers, too, that with clear precision and perhaps sometimes by repeating what is the right of consumers, we give and potential that we want to protect those who, and they are the subject of this law, are in a subordinate position to those who offer services and who offer products. I would also ask Minister Ljajic to, by means of a sublegal act, following the adoption of this law, which I think the entire Assembly will vote for this law, insist on agreeing on all type contracts between public enterprises and institutions that have a monopoly character and which provide services to Serbian citizens, to comply with this law in the appropriate time decided by the ministry. I think it is very important, because I know that the laws cannot be applied retroactively, but the ministry can require that within a reasonable period all type of contracts, which is the cancer of Serbian citizens to be tailored and tailored to this law, in order to avoid future disagreements and disputes that Serbian citizens have with monopoly firms in our republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3101	Thank you. On Article 156, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to Article 160 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3102	I am taking the opportunity to thank the Prime Minister for accepting this amendment. Let me say a few things about this amendment. I believe that inspections must have greater ingenuity and greater rights in order to control the products on our market. This is how we protect our citizens, because now that many manufacturers of different and food and various other products have been obliged by the applicable laws to control the quality of their products, but now that you have the opportunity to give more jurisdiction to inspection services, they have the right to control according to the citizens' complaint that there has either been food poisoning or dissatisfaction with some product they bought. The inspection services shall have the right to enter any facility to take the product to be sampled and checked. Practically, it improves the quality of product safety on the market. I thank you for accepting this amendment and for once again drawing attention to the poor control of the quality of food in the Serbian market, both the quality of food we eat and import food, which is very important for me to draw attention to as a national MP and to return the information to the Ministry of Health and Sanitary Inspectors who are much more equipped and more educated and able to explore the quality of food that comes from some other countries through border crossings, and not that only importers of these products are invited to have some licence from Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and I don't know any other countries, some laboratories we don't know. I want all food imported into Serbia to be controlled by our national laboratories. This is not a tendency to challenge the quality of food of some other countries, but I do not really trust the quality of food of some other producers who are not from Serbia or even from some European countries. You've had affairs and horse meat and a number of failures in European countries as well. So, just protecting our citizens, that's something we're interested in. I think it's good that you accepted this amendment because it will help better control food products and products in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3103	I thank you, Professor Milisavljevic. Mr Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to Article 163 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the ELECTRON COMMUNICATIONS You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Marijan Rističević, Katarina Rakić, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Mr. Dejan Radenković and Ivana Dinić. You have received reports from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 4th amendment, together with the correction, were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the corrections have not been made. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3104	Mr President-in-Office, Your Honor, this amendment concerns Article 4. Our amendment goes to delete the existing item 3. We also submitted an amendment to this amendment because it was not quite clear what the wish was for this amendment. The main objective of this amendment is to define the position of the Agency as independent and uniform. In any case, we wanted to specify some powers so that there was no problem in interpreting this law, which was not a rare case in the previous period, especially given that this law was also subject to the interpretation of the Constitutional Court. In this regard, we propose that the minister accept the amendment with the correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3105	Thank you. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3106	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for accepting this amendment. Let me point out that this amendment did not change the essence of the law itself, but I simply specified the deadline for the adoption of the annual plan. The law itself specified that it should be by the end of the year, and I, by this amendment, specified that it should be by 15 December of the current year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3107	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3108	As for this amendment, I also want to thank the government for accepting. As regards this amendment, it concerns jurisdiction, in particular the over-responsibility given to the Director of the Agency, and I have suggested that, with the agreement of the Director of the Agency, the consent of the Management Board, which the Government has also accepted, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3109	Thank you, Miss Rakic. National MP Marijan Risticevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 13a be added after Article 13. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3110	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleague and colleague, in this case and the acceptance of this amendment, our colleague Marijan Rističević, with all due respect for his creativity and willingness to propose such an amendment, I think we see the way in which we adopt this law. I've criticised, with all the praises I've had for some solutions, especially in the Law on Post Office Services, but we know in which procedure we pass this law. We're passing the law by emergency procedure. This shows the approach we've set out to make this law. On the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, after the RAPUS report, we heard one of the proposals of one of the RAKUS Management Board members, so it would be good to adopt the integration of both RATEL and RAPUS. It started with such a proposal to vote on the Committee. It was quick to react. But now, within the framework of this law on such a reaction and in the emergency procedure law, we have a proposal that is so important and that is affecting practically strategic matters in the drive for the development of IT technology, information society and telecommunications society. I don't think this is a way, because we've all talked a lot about our seeing and encouraging IT development in Serbia, where this can't be a systemic approach, which is on the government's proposal, one of the MPs is proposing to form, I'm going to read part of the member who is proposing and adding to this legislative proposal, that a budget fund will be established for the promotion and development of electronic communications and information society areas, therefore, the budget fund for the promotion and development in the field of electronic communications and information society. It shall be established to record the funds referred to in Article 27, etc. The budget fund is run by the ministry. The funds for the financing of the budget fund shall be provided from the funding referred to in Article 27(6), which shall be paid to the corresponding account prescribed for the payment of the public revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget and secondly, donations. Therefore, there is no clear insight into how the budget will be financed, and the government, on a proposal from the ministry, brings an annual programme of the use of the budget fund to finance activities and measures to improve the development of electronic communications and information society areas. I don't think this is a system solution, with this way and with the amendment proposal, because we talked about many systemic approaches, and I'll remind you that the previous government in this same system, practically, coalition, on 18 November 2013, brought some systemic things that are important for the development of IT and these technologies, information and communication, which are to increase the VAT rate from 8% to 10%, or raise VAT rates for computer equipment from 8% to 20%. Then we're talking about some solutions that aren't systemic and that aren't stimulating for people who work in this area of information technologies, telecommunications, people who have a higher level of profit because of their profile and their education, and then we bring systemic measures by introducing so-called. a solidarity tax and a way to destimulate those who have that kind of knowledge. I think that shows, first of all, an inconsistencies approach, especially in the system sense, because this is not an amendment that will systematically address our challenges in IT. It is certainly also the topic we see today, this news from half an hour ago, about the status of individual universities in the Republic of Serbia. I think that simply for the systematic improvement of IT and information technologies and communication technologies should be sought, above all, in innovation and innovation approaches and incentivise universities that will thus build this system thing. So this is just one of the amendments that shows insufficient systemic access. I think it's probably a good intention, but it's obviously not built enough. The government has accepted one such proposal. I think it showed insufficient self-preparedness that those strategic goals we heard in the exposé of our prime minister and of this government simply don't apply in the right way. In my opinion, this shows only one insufficient readiness and, I think, a little bit and a surface in accepting such an amendment and showing relations to such an important area of information and communication technology in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3111	Thank you. The word is Dr. Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3112	We have been guided by this being a transparent way of spending resources to develop electronic communications and information society. There was actually a similar provision in the solution so far. What is a newspaper is the establishment of a budget fund that could be filled with funds from the government as excess funds from the RATL regulatory body, but could also be received by different donors. The second thing is to allow a more transparent way of spending these funds, insight into the spending of these funds and the spending plan is determined by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Instead of a flat-rate provision that has so far existed in the law, that these funds are being spent on the development of electronic communications, we now say that a budget fund is being established, and the way these funds are being spent is determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3113	Thank you. The word came under this amendment, Dr. Janko Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3114	Thank you. In addition to the fact pointed out by Mr Ciric, inconsistencies and the systemic problem this amendment has made in the law itself, I would point to another inconsistencies. It concerns legal nomotechnics. It is unusual to add new members to the amendments and amendments to the laws. This is beyond the practice that existed in this congregation. It seems largely to come out to meet, apparently, someone from the ruling opposition. I have to admit, we didn't see in time how this amendment entered the procedure and how it was accepted by the government, because it entered the law as an emergency procedure. So are the amendments. Unfortunately, this does not provide sufficient quality in the debate either in principle or in the discussion of details. I'm just asking you, Mr. Ljajic, maybe you know, will you deliver this to us for the weekend at the Labour Law Assembly procedure and will we have a public discussion and talks with the Economic and Social Council on Monday probably discuss it? It's about the Deputy Prime Minister. That's why I asked you a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3115	The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3116	I wanted to speak according to the amendment, although I could speak for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, because my two previous speakers spoke a lot wider than the subject. I want to support this amendment by our colleague Marijan Risticevic, who was adopted by the government. Of course, I feel exactly the opposite of what they said, that the adoption, or formation of such a fund, is a system solution, because this money has certainly been paid to the Republic of Serbia's budget so far, and when it is paid into a fund that will serve this purpose, of course it is a system solution rather than something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3117	National MPs Marko Djurisic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic submitted the 20th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3118	This Article 20, with the best possible intention of the promoter, which in the current Article 104 of the Law adds a new attitude and a new subtitle, and this subtitle is – support for the acquisition of digital television signal reception equipment. In a way, this law, called the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Telecommunications, introduces poverty as a permanent state in the Republic of Serbia. The Law amending the Law on Electronic Communications assumes that we will be a poor society and that the citizens of Serbia will not be able to afford digitisation, but will have some social maps for that, so in a very general way, this issue is being settled. He's turning himself in to some probably sublegal act. This might be confirmed by that graphite that exists somewhere in Belgrade, which invites one of the ministers to save them. "Rassim save me." You know there's an expression. With this law, you introduce that you're going to have to save some people so they can even have a digital signal. I think it is necessary to regulate this in another law, which would introduce those long-awaited social cards, which would allow citizens to access electricity, or to use electricity, because it is the achievement of the 21st century, but not all of them have the opportunity to pay it, to access the right to use water, telephone, digital signal and other achievements of the 21st century, by having a social map and because they are poor in power to use this, and not to introduce it through this kind of law, because then we will really be overcrowded by laws about the possibility of using under privileged conditions of certain other services. I just don't think this member is the place.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3119	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3120	Perhaps we can discuss whether this member is a place in this law. I could even agree with you. However, in the public debate, we had a debate on this subject and since in no law we did not have a similar provision, and the Commissioner for Public Information asked for a legal basis for the division of so-called. a set-box population that won't be able to provide them, because that means creating a large database to which these set-boxes will be distributed. This is a legal basis so we can share devices that will allow citizens to receive a digital signal, and on the other hand, the basics to build that database. There was simply no other basis in other laws. You're probably right that it's not a place for this provision, but we had to enter that provision to carry out the whole process. As far as the second part is concerned, I couldn't agree with you because there's no state that's done digitization without something similar or the same. So, since 2003, Americans have moved digitalisation to 2009 until they have provided funds for every citizen who can't buy them to have secured the set-box. The European Union is asking us to do so. It's not our problem. Our problem is how much money we'll have and how many citizens we can secure the set-boxes. The other problem that is likely to arise is the possibility of financial and political abuse of seto-boxing. That's where I'd agree with you and everyone else. At this point, we don't have a clear model. We are studying all models and providing funds for the purchase of set-boxes and the installation of set-boxes to endangered categories of the population. We have several models, nine models we're considering. We're going to need help, support, and I'm going to need that kind of fear, which you probably have, and I'm sharing with you, and it's going to be very difficult, sensitive, slippery terrain, and we need to find a way to provide the best model for that division to be fair and to prevent all possible financial and political abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3121	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3122	This was an assessment of whether the minister or agency should prescribe which equipment should be used by the inspection. It was illogical for us to do so by the minister. We believe that the agency is an expert and that this will be an additional burden on the minister. On the other hand, he's not really gonna do it. It'll be some team, some commission he'll have to form. I think it may have been fairer that the agency was immediately given this authority. On the other hand, referring to what Mr Ljajic said earlier, I absolutely agree with him that the problem of the criteria for the division of these sets-boxes will be a serious issue and I am going back to the subject of the social cards, which should, if announced, be arranged and in some way bring them into life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3123	Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 29th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3124	Given that the government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted this amendment, I would ask the minister to reconsider accepting this amendment. It was my wish to cut my arms. In the sense of the bill itself, it's been three months. I think it's a very long three-month period to pass any sublegal act, especially when it comes to the law passed by emergency procedure. In addition, we have a problem here, i.e. there will be a problem with employees, as Article 29 states that employees of the Postage Services Agency will be taken over within three months, and on the other hand, Article 30 has a three-month deadline for the adoption of these acts. What if we get into a situation where you, in particular, refer to the statutes and the general legal acts, not only the adoption, but the consent of the existing ones, act after three months? What about those employees? They won't be able to be employed, they lose the right. We had a big dilemma on the board about this member himself. However, I have submitted another amendment to the amendment and addition of the Law on Post Office Services, and this is about concrete regulations, not agreeing on general acts. It might take more time, because it's about regulations that take time. I repeat, this is not about such regulations, it's about general acts. I think employees will have a problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3125	Thank you. The word is made by Vice President Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3126	Although we rejected this amendment, in our original proposal it was indeed a 30-day deadline, and then in conversations with regulatory bodies we came to the conclusion that they allegedly needed a three-month deadline. Your argument is in place and we accept that it will be 30 days and in the voting day I expect the MPs to vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3127	The word is Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3128	Thank you. This way you're just showing what you wanted by law, that this government is doing effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3129	I find that a representative of the government has accepted this amendment, and in the day of the vote, we will plead. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 3 of the agenda Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Posting Services. The amendments submitted by MPs Mr Dejan Radenkovic and Katarina Rakic were accepted on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Communications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Communications did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Communications did not accept this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3130	Thank you. I was just talking about this amendment. I still personally think it's three months long. However, from talks with the ministry's authorities, when they said it was regulations that must be brought into line with international acts, I want to simply and verbally withdraw this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-12-0.u3131	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear People's MPs, this is what we do today's work. With the work we will continue tomorrow at 11.00 hours with a search in detail on the 4th item of the agenda, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 110 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branko Ružić, Suzana Spasojevic, Neđo Jovanovic and Bojan Ziric. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representatives of the proposing Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, the Minister of the Interior, I have also called on the sittings to attend: Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry and Zorica Lončar Kasalica, Head of the Management Office in the Police Directorate. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the 4th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE TRADE IMPLEMENTS LAW. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Gordana Komic, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Marko Djurisic, Slobodan Homen, as well as the amendment of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. You have received a report from the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, Article 157 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic and Enis Imamovic together submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
