ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Please first listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. ) Based on official records of the presence of MPs, I find that 147 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 169 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Stefana Miladanovic and Aleksandar Senic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider some draft laws in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented with notes of the Fifth and Sixth Special Sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 and the session of the Fifth, Sixth, Seventh and Eighth. the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has provided such a committee in writing an objection to those minutes. We're going to make a decision on the records. I put to the vote The minutes of the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 4 August 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote - 162, against - no one with abstention - voted 24 out of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the fifth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I put to the vote the minutes of the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 3 September 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote - 165, against - no one with abstention - has voted 23 out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 6th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 1st and 3rd July 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote - 168, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 21 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 15, 16, 17 and 18 July 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote - 168, against - no one, with abstention - has voted 22 out of the total 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 29, 30 and 31 July and 1st and 2nd August 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote - 169, against - no one with abstentions - voted 22 out of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 29, 30 and 31 August 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote - 170, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 21 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. The call of this session, which has been delivered to you, contains a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly require the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of the emergency proceedings, proposals for the completion of the proposed agenda, a proposal for a merger of discussions and a proposal to conduct a search in particular immediately following the completion of the principled review of the draft law. The Committee on the Rights of the Child has proposed that, as an emergency procedure, the draft conclusion is put on the agenda to consider the regular annual report of the Citizens' Protector for 2013 – in the work concerning the rights of the child, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 4 June 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote - 47, against - no one, with abstention - one, voted 149 out of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Economic Development, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy proposed that the 2013 Energy Agency report, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 June 2014, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote - 10, against - no one with abstention - has voted 187 out of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the National Education Council, which submitted to the National Assembly on 26 June 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote -- two, against -- no one, with abstention -- has voted 195 out of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has proposed to put the draft conclusion on the agenda of the 2013 report on the work of the Republic of the electronic communications agency, which submitted to the National Assembly on 2 July 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote - five, against - no one, with abstention - voted 191 out of 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on the prevention and diagnosis of genetic diseases, genetically conditioned anomalies and rare diseases, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 3 July 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote - 18, against - no one, abstentioned - voted 178 of the total attendance of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty has proposed that, as an emergency procedure, a proposal for a conclusion be put on the agenda to consider the report on the elemental disaster - the flood that hit the Republic of Serbia and the measures taken to save the population and defend the threatened areas from the floods, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 14 July 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote - five, against - no one with abstention - has voted 191 out of 196 MPs in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 17 MPs from the Democratic Party Group proposed that, on an urgent procedure, a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to human victims, material and immaterial damages in the floods on Serbia's territory, which took place at the National Assembly on 17 July 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote - 18, against - no one with abstention - voted 178 out of 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a law on the export and import of arms and military equipment, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 July 2014 (5th point of the proposed agenda). I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote - 174, against - no one with abstention - voted 22 out of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the approval of the International Labour Organisation Convention No 94 on the working clauses of public contracts, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 September 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 171 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted 26 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2014, be put on the agenda of an emergency procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 31 of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the loan agreement (the Second Health Development Project of Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 169 against – no one, with abstentions, voted 30 of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending the Law on Public Property, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 September 2014, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, no one, with abstentions, voted 27 of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government has proposed that, in an urgent procedure, the draft Act on Confirmation of the Protocol with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, the European Communities and their Member States, on the other hand, which takes into account the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, which submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 179, no one, with abstentions, voted 20 out of the 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic have suggested that the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education be put on the agenda of the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – the trust, the abstention – there is no, 177 of the total of 199 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's MP suggested that the draft law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2014, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 178 of the total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I remind you that the Serbian Progressive Party MP group, according to Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 22 July 2014 submitted a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was delivered to you. I also remind you that the parliamentary group is the Democratic Party, according to Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 30 August 2014, submitted a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was also delivered to you. I also remind you that the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the New Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, is in agreement with Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 29 September 2014, submitted a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was delivered to you. According to Article 45(2), The Rules of Procedure, on the termination of office and the selection of a new member or alternate member of the Board, shall be decided by the National Assembly at the first next session following the submission of a proposal from the Parliamentary Group, which means that these proposals by force of the Rules of Procedure are included in the agenda of this sitting. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on the termination of the Law on the reduction of the net income of the public sector, which, together with MP Borislav Stefanovic, submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2014. Does the MP Gordana Komic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9388	Thank you. The draft law on the termination of the Law on the reduction of the net income of a public sector person is the law of a total of two members, of which the second member is an irrefutable part of each law and speaks about when the bill enters into force. What my colleague Borislav Stefanovic and I wanted was for this Assembly to decide to stop the Law on the reduction of the net income of the public sector, published in the Official Messenger No. 108/13 and that the date of entry into force of this law ceases to apply and sublegal acts are passed under the law which ceases to apply. I am submitting this proposal in the common interest of both the ruling coalition and the majority and the government and the upcoming business in the adoption of some measures from fiscal policy and the adoption of a possible budget rebalance during this month, and in particular the obligation that the next budget for 2015, under the Budgetary System Act, will be the programming budget, because this will have to be done in this Assembly if you want to talk about laws that foresee different fiscal measures when it comes to public sector incomes. My colleague Borislav Stefanovic and I were also prepared to agree that there should be no special debate on this, there should not even be specific questions as to what the positive effects of this law are, because to our mutually great regret for my two questions to the former finance minister, Mr Krstic, and this too. No one knew to tell me what was achieved as a savings save for one sentence, that it was between 60m and 300m euros, which is not a sentence that should suffer any Assembly that controls the government. So neither, as it is said, is the political, political, political, media and game of any kind, but the inevitable phase that can be or by putting this bill on the agenda is now resolved, or we will have a problem that in some future law proposals, which as such must come into this Assembly, puts a member of the law out of force, which is extremely questionable, we will have a very serious debate about this, because this is the demeaning of the National Assembly, and this law. If we have no intention of abolishing income cuts on net earnings, that's what we have to say. If I had that kind of information, I wouldn't take it. The government wants to continue to have a law that reduces salaries to professors, soldiers, judges, MPs, doctors, engineers, whoever has a higher salary than 60,000 dinars in the public sector, and then we know that this will continue to be a measure of fiscal policy. That's why you're making this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9389	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 173 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov, based on Article 92 of the 2nd and 4th centuries. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2014. However, I remind you that the National Assembly has just voted not to accept that this bill is being considered by an emergency procedure, and therefore business conditions are not met to declare its inclusion in the agenda of this session. The proposed law does not meet the conditions laid down in Article 154. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under which the draft law which is not under consideration under emergency procedure may be included in the agenda within no less than 15 days of its application. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), Articles 170 and 170. 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to be held together: - a joint principle and uniform search on: a draft law amending the Law on Public Property, a bill amending the Law on Tax Procedure and Tax Administration, a proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Cooperation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Issues between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Co-operation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Issues, submitted by the Government; - a common principle and uniform search on: a proposal for a Law on Exporting and Importing Arms and Military Equipment and a Proposal for a Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria on the Foreign Exchange of Information in the field of Defence, which has been submitted by the Members of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union, the Republic of the European Union, the Republic of the European Union, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 25 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) and in accordance with Article 157(7). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the examination in particular on the draft Law amending the Law on Public Property (first item of the proposed agenda) and the Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration be carried out immediately after the completion of the principled examinations of those laws. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, no one, with abstentions, voted 27 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, the proposal to supplement the proposed agenda, the proposal to merge the debate and the proposal to conduct the search in particular immediately after the final examination of the draft law, on the basis of Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 170, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 25 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, in general. I ask the service of the National Assembly to make up a consolidated text of the agenda of the session and deliver it to the MPs. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Public Property Act; 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration; 3. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Other Health Development Project Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters; 5. Proposal for a law on the export and import of arms and military equipment; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria on the mutual exchange and protection of classified information in the area of defence; 7. Proposal for a law on the approval of International Labour Organisation Convention No 94 on the working clauses of public contracts; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Serbia, of the one part, and the European Communities and their Member States, of the other part, which takes account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on Veterinary Cooperation; 10. Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 11. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 12. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're going to work on a set agenda. Previously on AMC's The Walking Dead... You have received the resignations of MPs Dejan Andrejevic, Drazen Jaric and Marija Stevanovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and reports from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering these paragraphs, which has determined that a case under Article 88(2) has taken place by resigning. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the mandate for these MPs. In accordance with Article 88(2), paragraph 2 and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that it ceased its mandate before the end of the time on which the MPs Dejan Andrejevic, Drazen Jaric and Maria Stevanovic were elected on the day of their resignation. In agreement with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I am, in the interest of a joint principled and uniform search of the motions of the law in question. 1, 2, 3rd and 4th agenda, in addition to the representatives of Proposer Kori Udovici, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Željko Sertić, Minister of Industry and Dr Dusan Vujović, the Minister of Finance, invited the sittings to attend: Nenad Mijailović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Radmila Jagodić, Assistant Minister of Finance, Irina Stevanović Gavrić, Assistant Director of Finance, Vesna Hreljac Ivanovic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Saša Novaković, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance, Branko Drčelic, Director of Public Debt Management Ivana Magdić, Assistant Director of Public Debt Management, Jelena Parezović, Assistant Prime Minister of Government, Dr Tanja Bajić, Director of Health Development Project, Dr Predrag Đukić, Coordinator of the Public Debicar Funding the Health Funding System of Health and Publicity, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Serbia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Bosnia, Minister of Bosnia and Minister of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Slovenian of Slovenia, Slovenian, the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Serbia, Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Slovenia. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled and uniform search on proposals for legislation in the agenda under review. 1, 2, 3 and 4, and before the opening of the joint principle and uniform search, I remind you, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Property, Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Other Project on the Development of Health of Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Co-operation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Affairs. Do you want the word of Proposer Kori Udovicki, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9390	Thank you. Dear Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, at the beginning of the debate in principle allow me to give several introductory notes concerning the draft Law amending the Law on Public Property, the Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Co-operation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Issues and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Loan of the Health Development of Serbia between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In the case of a proposal for a tax procedure law and a tax administration, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration shall provide for the obligation to submit a tax application exclusively in electronic form within certain time limits for different tax forms. This proposal amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration proposes to move some deadlines. This can be clearly seen in a member of the law. In the coming period, the government will step up efforts to boost tax payments and work accordingly to amend a series of regulations. Since the electronic submission of tax returns requires information solutions to be in line with these changes, and in order to optimise costs, it is appropriate to postpone and adapt their making changes to the rules, i.e. to work at the same time. When it comes to the draft law amending the Law on Public Property, it is about changing the deadline, delaying the deadline, but for a different reason. Article 77(1) The Law on Public Property has been laid down for a period of three years from the date of entry into force of this law by which the AP and the unit of local self-government apply for the registration of public property rights, while Article 82 of the same law provides for a period of three years from the date of entry into force of this law in which public undertakings, capital companies and their subsidiaries may apply for registration of property rights on immovable property. In view of the fact that the deadlines laid down in this law expire on 6 October 2014, as well as the fact that a large number of those entities did not apply for the registration of property rights into public records in real estate and rights on them, an extension of these deadlines is necessary. Clearer demarcation and public property is one of the major problems Serbia has not solved to date. The shift of these deadlines gives time to units of local self-government and public enterprises that have not yet done so to submit requests, and to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to explore in a comprehensive way why this process has so slowed down and whether there may be other ways to address the issue of more effective public property use. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters. This law confirmed 25 agreements on Serbia's co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters with countries that are Serbia's trading partners. It is a type-approval agreement which creates a legal framework for customs authorities, states, foreign contracting parties to provide administrative assistance to each other in accordance with the national legislation of the requested foreign Contracting Party. The aim of the co-operation agreement is to pre-warn and combat violations of customs and other regulations, to combat smuggling, facilitate and speed up trade between the two countries and exchange of experience in the work of customs authorities. To that end, the agreement provides for the following forms of co-operation: mutually providing assistance in preventing investigations into customs, foreign and foreign trade regulations, providing assistance in providing information used to combat smuggling, taking measures to achieve co-operation in the study, development and implementation of new customs procedures, training of staff, exchange of experts, harmonisation of customs systems, perfecting customs techniques and addressing problems arising from customs regulations, taking measures to facilitate and faster enforcement of passenger and goods transport. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement for a health development project between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This law confirms the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development signed in Belgrade on 10 July 2014 in the original English language. Article 3 The Law on the 2014 budget of the Republic of Serbia provides that the Republic of Serbia can be in debt with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of up to $40m, with a view to providing the second loan. The amount of loans in euros was determined on the basis of the US dollar-euro exchange rate on 31 December 2013, the last day of the month preceding the month in which the negotiations were held. The loan amount is defined as 29.1m euros. The Republic of Serbia is taking a loan under the terms of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and they are particularly favourable compared to commercial conditions. These conditions are a 15-year period, a grace period of five years, the interest rate is a six-month eurobor plus a variable interest margin currently at 0.3%, the access fee paid to the bank is 0.25% of the amount of the loan. The Republic of Serbia will repay credit in 20 consecutive half-year wars every 1 February and 1 August, starting on 1 August 2019. The project – Development of Serbia's health number 2, which would be financed from the loan's resources, should contribute to the improvement, efficiency and quality of the public health system of the Republic of Serbia through several components that I will describe a little later. In fact, the total resources spent in healthcare account for around 10.4% of Serbia's GDP, while public health spending per capita increased on average by 130% between 2001 and 2011. It is crucial for Serbia to increase the productivity of its health consumption, particularly taking into account fiscal constraints and increased demand for health services by a growing population. In order to address the growing burden of chronic non-infectious diseases in a limited fiscal space, Serbia is looking for a way to improve coverage and quality in the field of prevention, promotion, screening and treatment at primary healthcare level while at the same time working to improve the efficiency and quality of health care at secondary and therapeutic levels. In line with the above proposed project, it would contain the following parts: part one – improvement of healthcare financing, part two – effective procurement of medicines and medical resources, part three – strengthening the quality of services and part four – supervision, evaluation and management of the project. Hospitals in Serbia are currently being paid on the basis of historic line budgets that do not encourage cost cuts or effective use of funds. The Republic Health Insurance Fund, I will continue to speak to RFZO, has begun the transition to finance a short-term hospitalisation based on activities, using the Australian diagnostic related group system to promote greater efficiency in the area of short-term treatment in hospitals. However, more efforts and resources are needed to adapt the DSG system to Serbia's needs, building a reporting and information systems and capacity management system to ensure that diagnostically related short-term treatment groups are implemented to a greater extent, strengthening the hospital's capacity and autonomy in order to respond to new incentives. Much remains to be done to strengthen incentives for efficiency and quality at the level of primary health care, both for individual service providers and for health homes in general and for reducing unnecessary instructions to more levels of health care. Part 2 refers to effective procurement of medicines and medical equipment. The cost of medicines currently accounts for 18% of the spending in the health sector and is rapidly increasing due to the inefficient supply of most medicines and medical resources. About 80% of the RFO budget for medicines is spent in purchases conducted by individual health institutions. Currently, RFZO defines the budget to individual health institutions for the purpose of obtaining medicines and medical resources, and these institutions are then investigating tenders for the purchase of drugs, from major drugstores, and drug manufacturers are currently not directly involved in public tenders for the purchase of medicines. The net result is high price variability. Serbia plans to lower prices through centralised procurement of medicinal products for non-patient treatment with prices that will be defined competitively. In addition, several additional reforms could increase the efficiency of the purchase of drugs and prescriptions, including the adoption of a basic list of medicines financed by RFZO, legislative changes to encourage prescriptions by doctors and the issue of drugs by pharmacists in line with the internationally unprotected name instead of protected producer names, and ultimately reviewing policies related to the payment of participation and electronic procurement systems. Finally, I will talk about part three of this project, improving quality of health care and impact management. Despite efforts to improve health care quality over the past decade, including a national strategy to improve quality of healthcare from 2009, continued quality deficiencies can be seen through routine control of chronic non-infectious diseases. Certain mechanisms can be used to improve the quality of health care, such as good clinical practice guides, clinical pathways, accreditation of health institutions, and integrated information management to monitor quality standards and provide feedback to service providers. Current reforms in financing and improving quality are supported by the computing of information management in healthcare. These reforms must be institutionalised and deepened in order to allow greater use of information, in order to manage impact, improve efficiency and increase quality. The national framework for medical information has been developed and it provides basic regulation and standards for the development of information systems at the level of primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare. One of the key activities of the proposed project would be to improve cancer control. Namely, cancers are one of the main causes of death in Serbia with key risk factors including smoking and malnutrition. The government is taking steps to strengthen tobacco regulation, and at the primary level of health care, interventions are planned to strengthen the consultation centre on risk factors and improvement of cancer screening in order to increase early detection. Earlyly discovered, some cancers can be treated at the level of primary or secondary healthcare, although advanced screening programs will increase the number of instructions to the therapeutic level of health care. In this connection, purchase and installation of up to five linear accelerators, together with accompanying equipment and construction works, has been planned to increase the coverage and quality of treatment by air therapy, in specialised oncology centres at the territorial level. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this way I thank you for your attention, and I hope that we will have a constructive debate in the principle of the laws that I have just spoken of.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9391	Thank you. Do the committees want the word? Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9392	Dear Presidents, Madam Prime Minister, at the very beginning, first on the draft law amending the Law on Public Property. What I would say, and what you, in the opening part, have pointed out, is an extension of the deadline that I think may even be necessary. Why? When we passed a law on public property three years ago in this House, we felt that three years ago they were real, that this big deal that was primarily meant to be done by local self-governments, cities, municipalities and AP, that once and for all it was written down by public property, both local self-government units and public enterprises, that it was enough to do so, today we see that it was not enough. Why wasn't it enough? Will the extended period of two years be sufficient and might it be that some other MPs in this House and when the absolute deadlines pass, and these are ten-year deadlines, that the extension of these deadlines will happen again? I'm saying this for the citizens, it's a very important topic. Why? Because there is no responsibility here for those who are careless and who have not done their job. Unfortunately, we have a situation that since 1945, everything and everything has been nationalized, mostly in local self-government. That nationalisation was partly returned, first of all, to land, laws of the 1990s. However, in local self-government and there is a major problem, the reform of the judiciary, the commissions that existed and made decisions on the country's return, the reform of the 2008 judiciary ended de facto. Why? Because they led by representatives, there was one judge from the basic courts in the continent and representatives of local self-government, and they implemented solutions on the spot for the country's return. Unfortunately, we have a situation in Serbia today that these solutions are not being implemented at this time, that hundreds of hectares and thousands of hectares of arable land have been obtained by people, but they are not rightful solutions. Now we have an absolutely incredible situation. People went into that land, processed it, couldn't get a grant from the state, because that land wasn't run on them. Local self-governments can't collect taxes, because that land is so completely untitled. When we address the Ministry of Agriculture, and you are now a resolute Deputy Prime Minister, that's why I'm telling you, when we talk to you, they simply say that they are not competent, that the problem in the judiciary, that judges for this extra work are not paid and that they simply don't want to do it. Teached by this experience, I'm afraid these additional deadlines for public property registration are too long, I'm afraid local self-government won't do this job properly. I'm saying this for another reason, because I'm coming from Topola, which unfortunately carried one big one, let's say, historical burden after 1945, whose one-third of the municipality today is run as state property, because it's actually one-third. That's over 6,000 acres of land and I'm not talking about hundreds and hundreds of objects. It's run like a nationalized property. We've respected this deadline. We signed everything neatly and sent the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate to control, so that once again the text of what remains of the municipality's property and that the municipality can make clear for the first time since 1945, that it knows what its public property will be, what it is that public enterprises will have, but I'm afraid that if these deadlines continue like this and if this continues indefinitely, we will all have problems together. Therefore, I ask you, Madam Prime Minister, to pledge your personal authority not to wait two years, but to simply see which local self-governments, which have respected this deadline, which are not to at least publicly stamp, that Serbian citizens know who they are, and these are all state authorities, who do not respect it. You can say that clearly and publicly as a resolute minister of local self-government and simply suffer certain consequences for your troubles, because if we put those who work in the same basket and those who don't work in the same way, I'm afraid we'll never get there. As for the draft law amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, Mr Lazar Krstic, then the finance minister, was seated in your place when we last considered the amendments to this law. I, along with a number of MPs, said that it was very difficult to comply with the legal standards given in the old bill and that simply legal, first of all, large legal persons, here I am talking about large firms, adjustments, first of all, their programs, software in their companies, to honor that simple tax returns are made only in electronic form. I am pleased and this is what I need, unlike this previous Bill proposal, to simply adapt this situation to the time and I am glad that the corporate income tax, other than the profit tax, will, at the deduction in electronic form of the application from 1 April 2015, be the annual income tax of the citizens of 1 April 2015, the corporate income tax at the deduction of 1 January 2016, excise taxes from 1 January 2016, also in 2016, the income tax from the independent activities of entrepreneurs who have kept business books since 1 January 2016 and the tax on non-life insurance premiums since 1 January 2016. All other tax forms since 1 January 2017. I read this, first of all, for the sake of the citizens, so that citizens understand clearly about the deadlines, when they will only register in electronic form. The draft law confirming the loan agreement, the second project to develop Serbia's health development between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which weighs 29m and 100,000 euros, is something very important and the NS parliamentary group will absolutely support it in the voting day. This is a very favourable loan and given the current situation of our health care, I think we should adopt it and, of course, apply it as soon as possible. For the sake of Serbia's public, I think citizens should know that the duration of the loan is 15 years, the grace period is five years, the interest rate is a six-month Eurobor plus 0.45%. The access fee is 0.25% of the loan amount, the Republic of Serbia undertakes to repay the loan in 20 consecutive six-month wars, every 1 February and 1 August, starting from 1 August 2019. Also, it's very good that as a lender, we have been given the opportunity to request any of the possible variations, the conversion of loan terms, at any time, to be in a position to manage debt more effectively. These changes relate to the possibility of swapping the interest rate, the possibility of conversion of fixed and variable interest rates, etc. The appropriations should be used to improve the overall system of financing for health care. The accent, at this time, is placed on improving the quality of health care and clinical efficacy, especially in the field of prevention, control of chronic diseases, where all kinds of cancers are primarily thought of. It is therefore one of the most important items in mind, procurement and installation of five linear accelerators along with accompanying equipment and construction works, their territorial positioning that will result in adequate coverage and quality of treatment for air therapy. Also, the basic emphasis will continue to be on prevention, screening and early detection of cancers, in order to reduce the percentage of deaths from this disease compared to the total number of patients. This relationship unfortunately in RS is currently extremely unfavourable, especially when compared to data from developed EU and US countries. It is therefore extremely important that part of the loan is intended to improve the overall prevention of this serious disease, as well as education and awareness development in the widest layers of the population, especially in some critical groups. The fourth point in this joint debate is the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Co-operation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Issues. As an MP and a member of the NS Group, I will always support any agreement that is signed with one of the countries, above all I mean bilateral agreements, and given that we and Moldova are also signatories to the CEFTA agreement, it automatically means that we can first and foremost improve our economic relations. Because of the general public, according to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Moldova in Serbia's total exports for 2010 took a modest 56th place on the export, or 48th place on the import side. In 2011, the total trade in goods grew by 270% and amounted to about 75 million US dollars, while the upcoming trend of trade in goods towards the same source continued in the first half of 2012 and was about 28.5% higher compared to the same period of the previous year. In addition to improving trade, ensuring the correct application of customs rules, the basic idea of the agreement is a common fight against drug trafficking and other psychoactive substances. What I would also point out in order to realise and achieve those objectives, the agreement regulates the way in which the implementation of the mutual co-operation of the customs authorities of the two countries, assistance, education and all other information, etc., will define. Of course, let me point out once again that we need to support these bilateral agreements. Moldova is a country in our immediate environment and all this data I have read, which is data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, shows us that growth in all areas is very possible. The NS parliamentary group is aware of the importance and urgency of the deadlines for the adoption of the law referred to in points 1 to 4 of the agenda. They'll vote unanimously for them on Vote Day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9393	The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9394	Thank you, Mr. President. I find the beginning of the fall session strange. Instead of the reform laws, as promised at the beginning of the term of office of this Assembly, we have received two laws on amendments and amendments to the law with a total of five members relating to the change in the period of applicable laws, as well as one confirmation of loans and an international agreement that we are talking about today. Another strange thing is that instead of Minister Dusan Vujovic, who was ordered to present these laws in front of the Assembly, there is today the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Kori Udovici, who practically read to us the MPs here something that stands in the written explanation of all these laws. I don't think that was necessary. We have read all the arguments and arguments and are asking some questions to which we expect answers and I hope that we will get those answers. Not in the order it's on the agenda, but the way the minister used to say it. She first spoke of the draft law amending the tax procedure law and the tax administration. It's interesting that we discussed this law here three months ago, July 1, 2014, then he was the finance minister, the minister in charge, and he was talking about the importance of this law and he was talking about the importance of those deadlines that are changing and moving today, some in six months, some in a year. The last deadline that was for electronic applications, following the then passed law, which envisioned only in electronic form by 1 October 2015, can now be submitted to the application, is now being moved to 1 January 2017. What did the minister say then? It says – the second principle that we have followed in the amendments to this law is process-technical change, that is what life means to many, because it is the way tax is paid, and the tax administration should primarily be a service of citizens because it is a counter that no economic operator, and de facto no citizen of this country can bypass. On the one hand, we still have the informational modernisation of services to tax bonds. So, what's the point? We are chasing on the one hand the electronic submission of applications, already done with a combined charge that has started to work and function well since 1 March of this year, and this includes about 80% in terms of the mass of income. By 1 October 2015, this will be done for all other types of tax revenue, and space will be created to abolish many discretionary rights. It's something that I've had the opportunity to talk to in the last few weeks and with the flat-rate bonds, or those who pay taxes on a flat-rate basis, to eliminate different discretionary factors that an individual tax inspector or tax officer can determine on the ground, is that in itself reduces the predictability of tax obligations, which is bad for business. The finance minister said this on July 1st. It was that when it was already agreed that he would return to Mekenza, he already knew then that he would leave the Serbian government, but you, as Deputy Prime Minister and other members of the government, voted for this law with these deadlines. So the MPs voted for these deadlines three months ago, and now we're getting new deadlines. And the explanation is this, and you said it in one sentence – the government will propose to the Assembly the adoption of certain tax laws, so it is necessary to provide sufficient time to adapt information systems and taxpayers and tax administrations to the solutions that will be contained in these laws. What tax laws? What solutions? That's what we want to talk about and hear that answer. What is the government planning to move these deadlines for? It is not enough to say – certain tax laws. Sorry, that doesn't mean anything. Minister Krstic then said the same thing – About this is how we can measure the effectiveness of this law in some future period, besides, of course, the grey economy, not only depends on the law, but rather on the implementation, is the fact that we are at 161th place of 189 countries at tax administration costs. So, in terms of time and money needed by taxpayers who are being spent on it, 161 of 189 countries. These changes, precisely on these competitive lists, will make our position better. How will the extension of these deadlines affect these lists now? Will that position improve or worsen? We think this is unserious and you can't come to this assembly with this kind of explanation for the adoption of these laws, without exactly saying what's going to change, what exactly is it going to have, why hasn't it done so so far? Do not put MPs in an awkward situation to change the decision in less than 100 days, the law, what they voted on three months ago, that they now have to vote for other deadlines, without a clear explanation of why it is done. Under the applicable law, the deadline has come today to apply for a corporate tax. So from now on, it is considered that only in electronic form can an application be submitted. This law will not be passed today, but in a few days you too leave a legal void. For a few days, we do not know what time limit is and how this application will be submitted in the next few days. It's your manners. Already several laws we discussed in August and September were laws to move some deadlines, deadlines that had already expired. When we talked about health insurance and health books, we discussed in September a deadline that expired in August. We are now discussing the deadline that has expired today and the law, and if adopted, until the day of publication in the official messenger, it is at least two or three more days. This certainly does not contribute to better business conditions and attract investment, because who will come to this country if they do not know what laws apply and when will change? I don't think the problem we have with the budget is the consequence of what everyone is repeating as parrots, the previous government, I don't know what the previous government is referring to, because this government and these parties have been in power for two and a half years now, so I think we need to discuss what the effects of the government's actions are and not some governments that were before it. But we'll come to that when the budget rebalance comes. Let's go back to these remaining laws we're discussing today. Law amending the Law on Public Property. The deadline for local self-government, Autonomous Region and public enterprises had three years to enroll in real estate for another two years. That deadline expires on 6 October. If we adopt as planned how this Assembly imagined it was working, we won't transfer the deadline, there won't be any legal gaps, we'll adopt these changes by Friday. But I agree with the arguments made by my colleague Jovanovic, that the two-year-old deadline is too long. We have submitted amendments to reduce that deadline to four years, or to another year to give to local self-government. Your statement to give additional time to local self-government to do so in the next period is not enough. I wonder what the number of subjects that did it is and what is the number of subjects that didn't do it? It's the only way we can talk. Now, we're gonna get into a situation where maybe in two years, we're gonna give another deadline, 'cause somebody's not gonna do anything again. This shows one negligence and indifference of the state administration, both at the republican and local level, and I'd like to hear about the number of entities that didn't do this. What are these subjects, and what's the harm in not being done? We agree that it was important to finally make it possible, in accordance with the Constitution, the AP and local self-government to sign up as property owners, and it was very important, when the law was passed three years ago, that the ruling majority were not voted in favour of the law at the time, but for two years, somewhere more, somewhere less, the result of the elections, which was the result of the transfer, to the authorities in most municipalities and local self-government, and I wonder why this job is not finished and where it is ended and where it is not? The largest part of its presentation was spent reading the Law on Confirmation of Loans between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Health. That's good. What is raised as a question when a law is passed that says it is a loan for the second health development project in Serbia, the logical question is – and what about the first project, what are the results of the first project? It's not in this law. There's no explanation. I was hoping to hear something about it, but I didn't hear anything. I heard what it says in the explanation. I didn't get any new information. If Mr Dusan Vujovic were there, at least we could hear whether all the funds were withdrawn and spent on the first project as needed, and perhaps the Minister of Health should also be there to explain to us what the effects of this first project are and that we know why these 29, or what effect we are counting on from these 29m euros that will be additionally in charge of Serbia. Of course, the question is again, how much longer will this country be in debt, when will this debt finally begin to decrease? The fiscal council today presented its data that it is 22.4 billion euros, that it is 71.5% or 72% of gross national income. The legal limit is 45%, and I see no one's bothered for two years. The European border is 60 percent acceptable. We are now at 72% or 68%, according to the Ministry of Finance, but by the end of the year both predict that this debt and this percentage will grow and that next year will grow and that this year we have a decline in gross national income, that next year at best there will be zero, and a better life is promised for 2016. Is it possible for the state to withstand the additional responsibility of everyone, even if this is, I believe, a good loan and a necessary loan to improve health care in our country, which is in an extremely difficult situation? The last agreement with the Republic of Moldova on the customs union is one technical agreement, it was mostly not discussed in this Assembly, so I have nothing to add. I can only conclude that our parliamentary group cannot support laws that move some deadlines at a time when these deadlines have already expired or expire in a few days, that we cannot support the debate on the loan without knowing what the effects of the previous loan are, when there is no finance minister to explain things to us. I believe he has other obligations, but this session was planned a few days in advance, and I think he had to be here today, because of these four laws, all four laws are his, in all four, he's been designated as a promoter and we don't think for all these reasons we're going to support these laws when they're voted on. I call, repeat, my colleague Jovanovic said he believes this deadline is a debt, here we have given him the opportunity to vote for our amendments, to reduce this deadline in the amendments to the Public Property Act. We call on him and the other MPs to vote, to cut the deadline and thus force local self-government, administration of local self-government, the AP administration to do their job more seriously and to finish the job they are expected to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9395	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9396	Thank you, Mr President, Minister, representatives of the ministry, the SPS parliamentary group, and I will point out this immediately and at the beginning, in the voting day, will support a complete set of proposals for the legislative acts we are discussing today. At the very beginning, I will speak to the greatest extent and point out what we consider mandatory, and these are the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Property. When I said that we would support this set of laws, I must immediately point out that the SPS does not relax at all. It relaxes neither as a serious political factor nor relaxes as part of the government, nor relaxes as the responsible and most responsible people in the government in front of the SPS, nor relaxes as parts of the legislative process, bearing in mind that the Public Property Act was passed in 2011. Why am I saying this? It's this very question that goes through the entire text of the law. Madam Minister, it is not clear if we have already accepted the delay in the start-up of the process of applying for the registration of property rights in favour of local self-government and public enterprises, what makes this seem again? Why have public enterprises, why have local self - administrations, or municipalities and cities not done so today? Why, if the text of the law itself imposed such an obligation? I must remind myself that the very basic meaning of the law was what the Resolution on the legislative process defined, which is to bring the legislation of the Republic of Serbia into line with EU legislation. To become a member of the EU, one of the fundamental laws was the Law on Public Property and that is why we adopted it. This is good, and it is good that the SPS has participated in this, given that we have largely understood the country's commitment to the EU and the EU's path. What is even more important is that the SPS parliamentary group has been affirming all along, and this is a very clear distinction between the right of property of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the right of ownership of local self-government, cities and municipalities and the right to property of public enterprises and institutions. If the law has already defined by automation that the law itself recognises the right of property to both the Republics of Serbia and the AP and local self-government, municipalities and cities, as well as businesses, what prevented all those who are listed, who are legitimately legitimate as holders of property rights from making it property and enrolling? For Serbian citizens, it is perfectly clear that it is only technical issues and technical reasons. What has prevented a simple request to enroll property rights in favour of local self-government and all those who are legitimate here? Let us not forget something else that is very clearly defined in this law, which is that besides other reasons that have not prevented anyone from enrolling the right of property, there is one reason that is very important to me. There was no burden, no one was burdened with enrolling the right of property. The registration of property rights is not a real estate movement, is not subject to fiscal obligations. Then why hasn't that enrolment been made yet? I must remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the SPS, that this law has defined three forms of property, state, province and municipality. These laws have been put out of force, i.e. by the adoption of this law, they have ceased to be subject to overruled laws, which are the Law on Assets of the Republic of Serbia. So, we have broken up with one of the prevailing legislation and come up with a modern law that remains virtually unapplicable. The responsibility for such a thing must be borne. I'm not saying in any case that we in the SPS parliamentary group are looking for discipline, but some mechanisms of being responsible and calling for responsibility have had to be established so far. Unfortunately, they haven't been established. As a result, it is not excluded that there have been adverse consequences because the purposes of matters in public property are primarily determined by law, but also by the decision of the competent authority, in particular the authorities of local self-government determine how these purposes will be materialised, how much they will benefit local self-government or public undertakings. We in the SPS parliamentary group are asking a question – and what local self-government has so far made such a decision? It is neither, because neither one has entered the right to property, and until the registration of the right of property is carried out, it is not possible to make a decision on the purpose. If I'm not the owner of something, in which way I'll be able to determine any purpose I'm not the owner of, because I would illegally dispose of some other person's property. What is very important for the SPS, we think it's time for the deadlines defined by the law to be respected, that the basic essence and meaning of the law in practical application is materialized in the best possible way. This law has given space for it. We are proud of our participation in his vote, or adoption. This law made it clear what is the subject of public property, that natural resources in the exclusive property of the Republic of Serbia, that the Republic of Serbia allows what is in its property to be transferred to use others, that others of that use can exercise the right to a certain fee. Madam Minister, on behalf of the Socialists, I'm asking a question, and where is the fee achieved? On what level? What local self-government has so far made a decision to collect anything she could get, and has not been used for not applying the provisions of this law? For the Socialist Party of Serbia, it was never a problem to speak facts in fact and it was never a problem to call things a real name. We're doing it now. It is irrelevant whether Neđo Jovanovic or anyone else in the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will do so, but it is very important to know that we and how much obligation we have to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to make citizens feel that the laws cannot be treated as a dead letter on paper. The Law on Public Property, so far in its text, in its own sense, was one of the best laws and remained inapplicable. In front of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I point out as a major problem, and we will always respond to this problem, and we will never misstate the problem, nor push the solution to the problem under the rug. Things in public property used by the authorities and organisations of the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province and units of local self-government are, among other things, immovable and mobile matters and other property rights. Where have we come from? Until the records of exactly these things I point to, which, given the jurisdiction of local self-government, should be used by local self-government, where it is recorded. There is no shame in saying that I have just asked representatives of the local self-government in Užica – why has no application been filed? I asked the directors of public enterprises – what has been waiting until now, whether you are familiar with the provisions of the Public Property Act, regardless of which party they belong, whether they are members of ruling parties or opposition parties. They answered me in the way I expected, if which is very burdensome for me, and especially burdensome for the Socialist Party of Serbia, which is that we didn't know that was the way to do it, no one pointed out. For this there is no possibility that anyone may be abolized, that in any way this problem is not solved. The next problem which is why we are against the extension of deadlines further, because we will undoubtedly vote, as I said about these amendments to the Law, but I am confident for the last time, and I am convinced that the Government has recognised it, first of all, given the fact that there are also responsible people in the government in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia, as they were when this law was passed in 2011, as they were and when we extended the first time in 2013, so we now feel that we can no longer do anything, which means compromises with the non-law. There are no compromises in this sense, and tolerance is zero. What is important is to point out that we must not allow investment to be lost. I will remind the provisions of the Law where it is said – the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province and units of local self-government can invest funds in the capital of public enterprises and capital companies. Where was that? Where did it come from to capitalize what certain public enterprises already have, what the capital companies already have? The Socialist Party of Serbia is unknown. It is also defined in this law that those who are legitimateized as owners of the provisions of the Public Property Act may also be co-owners. I can have forms of partnership. There may be a right of co-ownership between public property holders, natural persons, private enterprises, entrepreneurs, etc. Where so far in the territory of the Republic of Serbia has it been made to know that we have records of co-ownership, that there is a certain benefit for local self-government from this co-ownership and partnership. As far as I know, such records have not been received by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, when I talk about this law, since I will briefly refer to the provisions of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, I have to point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done a lot. It has done much by passing this law, it has done much by extending the time limit for those who commit, not the right, to repeat the obligation, and not the right, to finally comply, but for the failure to fulfil any obligation, there must be a certain degree of responsibility. The Socialist Party of Serbia will not point to sanctions, nor does it seek sanctioning, but responsibility must exist. What could be done in the government, as a suggestion in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, is finally collecting data from units of local self-government, which has so far been listed, in which case nothing concerning public property has been entered, and that each of the units of local self-government, i.e. public enterprises, has given an explanation of why it has not been done so far. Without it, there is no responsibility, no degree of responsibility. As regards the provisions of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, it is no doubt that these amendments and additions of the Law are necessary. I will not fully agree with the criticisms brought here today, because the fiscal processes, the tax collection process, the collection of charges, and the structure of exactly what means everything the character of fiscality has to be set, and these deadlines have to be extended just to avoid the adverse consequences of the tax system of the Republic of Serbia and we socialist as responsible and politicians, and officials, and civil servants, and people sitting in government along with other members of the government, we believe that Serbia's citizens must be protected in this way. For this reason, I repeat, this body of law by the Socialist Party of Serbia will be supported and we will vote and vote in favour of these draft laws in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9397	Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, come forward? Borislav Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9398	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister of Udovici, dear colleagues, to try to talk about these bill proposals a little bit more clearly, and I would say with a clear and political basis why this and this way is done at this very moment, although I would not use the syntagm of an esteemed colleague in fact because I don't know what it means, but I will certainly say that within the overall impression of the week that I have, this is one of the impressions of the week that once again, as the other impressions of the week, is brought about at the last time, always kind of a day earlier and very bad for a certain business, which is certainly the impression of the week. So, in the draft Law amending the Law on Public Property, it seems to me that the point is that this is completely unnecessary for us to have three ministers, three deadlines, so three ministers, three deadlines, as well as for this Tax Administration Act three ministers, three deadlines, all at the last minute, all without any clear correct explanation, all without any real reason. So, you're completely disdaining your incompetence as a government. It wasn't enough for you, you've moved the deadline three times, not just in this law, but in others, and you're coming back to the Assembly at the last minute to do it. I think as the National Assembly, we deserve a precise, reasoned response that will speed up the impression of the week that you make all the time. So within that impression of the week, I have to say that it's already been regulated what happens when deadlines under this law are broken, within the impression of the week. So, these deadlines are already being moved for the second time, and you're literally abolishing the law, as you've abolished "The impression of the week" and the incompetence and neglect of this government and local self-government are covering up and moving for another two years. You're doing this all another time. You voted for these deadlines, you prescribed them, so you step on them, twice. So I don't understand why and what's the point of even passing a law with a certain deadline if we all know you're going to step on them and just ignore that thing? Why are we gathering at the last minute to give you an extra deadline? Because in two years your government has failed to apply the law that local self-government, the province, public enterprises make them do their legal obligation, and the law prescribes what happens if they do it, don't do it, excuse me. Then why are we breaking this deadline again? Why are you giving them two more years? Why don't you give them six more months? So, I don't get it. Amendment to the Law amending the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, moving the deadline for the application of electronic application and tax collection is a direct link, a respected colleague, with chaos in the tax administration of Serbia, with complete chaos and decay. How many, three directors have you changed or two? The two directors who have resigned in the last year have brought people from the BIA to run our tax administration, who are completely unprofessional, incompetent to run it, and they're destroying the system. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: They work great. Please don't throw away. Within that impression of the week, the only effective way to fight the gray economy is to switch to electronic application and collection, which is where we all agree. This was planned under the current law for most taxpayers as of 1 January 2015 for the income tax of citizens as of 1 April, as it applies in May only. After that, only some smaller tax forms remain to be introduced into the system by October 2015. However, these changes move all this for 2016 and 2017, which is totally unacceptable and scandalous. This shows incompetence and probably lack of interest in the introduction of taxes into legal flows, and this shows what you think about the fight against the gray economy and what you think about tax collection and what you think about that impression of the week you're making, and within which the impression of Sunday tycoons that are close to you still don't pay taxes. That shows this among other things. There is no reason not to introduce this as soon as possible, especially since, technically, the matter is fully ready for application, fully prepared, I say, and I think it should only be a few months that the system that already exists has been put into operation since March 2014, all contributions and taxes on employee earnings are reported electronically. My proposal is that, if you need deadlines, they move maximum in a few months and not a day longer. Otherwise, the fact that in the IRS training, people who are employed on a contract have passed away. So what do we do now? Now we need to cut the number of employees, we need to cut the wages, we need to cut pensions, we need to save, but some don't have to save, there's a lot to be done in this country. The tax administration as a backbone of Serbia's state functioning does not work. It doesn't work. Tax collection is very low. You've raised taxes, and the revenue side of the budget is never lower. No one to explain it to me from you. There is no Minister Vujovic to ask him that, I do not ask you personally a respected minister, but since Minister Vujovic is not there, I am asking you as a representative of the government. I can't understand that at all. Everything is ready for electronic tax returns, but it is delayed again, and those who have passed training are wavering on the contract, so they may be out of a job unless they are members of the ruling party. So, to return to the Law on Public Property, we believe that the law came into force in October 2011. A three-year deadline has been given to the province, local self-government and public enterprises, to apply for the registration of property rights to real estates belonging to them under the law. If they do not do so within the prescribed deadline, the competent authority will, under its official duty as public property holder, enroll the Republic of Serbia to retain the existing right of use by local self-government, public enterprises, autonomous province. This additional period of seven years in which the AP and local self-government can apply for the registration of property rights unless they do so, the right to use over the property will also be deleted. So the total deadline given for local self-government, public enterprises, to apply is 10 years. For ten years, there has been no reason to amend Article 77(1). So I don't understand why you weren't able to, why you didn't want to or didn't know, or you did other things, why this government couldn't do it, here's two and a few years? It's normal for you to come and ask for an extension of the deadline the last day. What do we do now? What kind of legality, what security, what kind of reform are we talking about then? Where's the certainty? Do the honourable MPs know that we are the only country in Europe in which units of local self-government, public enterprises do not have, are not titlers of their property, are not listed? We're the only ones. We are among the poorest countries in Europe. I don't understand, as you all think, absolutely here in this assembly, with the great respect I have for my colleagues, regardless of which parties, we spend this time today reading the explanation of something that deeply carries a call, by me, or incompetence or neglect or a complete look in some tenth direction, because, my God, who's going to do this now? Let's just say, one of the people in the government who's supposed to be dealing with this isn't here. I don't blame the Honorable President of the Assembly or anyone else, we've received these suggestions from the government, but please, I ask rhetorically, I don't insult anyone, what does this look like, people? As long as we're getting the last-minute proposals, without any real explanation, except that because of some tax laws, this right now, right here, my God, we need to extend the deadline a little bit? You're extending the deadline again. So, the overall impression of the week, other than those unsavory events on the street, is that you're giving us these laws today that we're discussing them because the government wasn't able to implement their own deadlines. It's a feature of this government, of this regime, among other things -- I set deadlines, I'm a judge, I'm a smoker, I've got a cake and a knife and similar comparisons and people's weeds, and I decide when I'm going to extend it, and I decide when I'm going to break it, and I decide when I won't apply it, I decide everything. That's what the distinguished author wrote in a daily newspaper. That I know who he is and we don't hate him. I'm undermining it. We don't hate it. I'll be back on the subject. So, I don't understand, a very specific question, why is the additional deadline being put in? What are these local self-governments that didn't do it, what public enterprises didn't do it? Why didn't they do it? What were those obstacles? How is it possible not to do that? You could have, for example, done something that seems to me to be in the manner of this regime – an office for the application of additional failures within the framework of the respect of deadlines. Make a new office, with some new Mark Blagojevic, and then the ministers will argue who's competent, who's not, who's what, and we've given you a nice warning in time not to, people, do it. You won't listen to us. You won't because we're irrelevant, small, as you say, opposition party, enemies of Serbia. We're trying very well in general to point through the amendment process. Please, we're asking most of them to support this. You don't have to put these kind of deadlines on, distinguished colleagues. Prove to us that he is. Which is the president of the municipality who hasn't been able to do it by now. Name and last name. Let's get her out of the DS, too. She's a little bit in charge of the municipalities. Let anyone say it. Could it be Mesco from Leskovec, is it someone else? Is the one that didn't pay for the electricity, so Nis is in the dark? The impression of the week is that you're just wandering around, waiting for the rebalancing, waiting for serious laws and getting the deadline back. That impression of the week, along with the one you've lifted, is impossible to explain. That's why I'm asking the Government's representatives to cast within their powers and my knowledge, which I am not bringing under question at this point, answers to these, I think, the specific things that we've brought out and which seem to be throwing a shadow not of one technical act that meets the deadlines, but of throwing a shadow at your endemic intricacies, inability, the inability to see where Serbia is going, in which direction, unless it tells you that I and if I within the overall impression of the week is not above each of us, and when it comes to our door, then you'll remember that you have integrity. I urge you to do it now, so that we don't all regret it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9399	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9400	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I love when some of my colleagues are inspired, when they either defend or attack laws. I can tell you that in the last 20 minutes my colleagues in some part were even right. You know, when we from the SNS entered the Government of the Republic of Serbia exactly 26 months ago, we knew that the situation in the country was bad, we knew that there was a large number of unemployed, we knew that there was low productivity in the economy, we knew about the huge public debt, but we didn't know how well it was done until 2012, so the impression of not a week, but the impression of a decade of what a broken state administration we have, how expensive this state administration is and how inefficient it is. Look at the wonders, this state administration just started to reproduce in 2001, so now in the state administration we have a large number of people who don't come to work and get paid, a large number of thugs who rob citizens because they get paid and don't do anything, and even a lot of unprofessional people who don't even know what their job is. Why? Because maybe some of them are bringing the directors in to be BIA, and some of them are bringing the bad guys off the street and giving them big paychecks in the state apparatus. Now they're surprised that our state apparatus is ineffective, so the minister may be guilty of that. If the minister were to solve this problem, and the prime minister and the minister were to blame, because if they were to solve the problem properly, then the DS and its clone, some other party, would be making rallys about how someone is dealing with employees in the state administration and then criticising why the law is changing. So it has to change when it comes to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. What is so contentious that we want new laws to be passed that will create a fairer way of taxation and fairer control? Shall I remind you what control it was before? By controlling only those who regularly pay taxes and contribute, and they were asked for a small, tiny toothpick to write them a punishment. That's what tycoons were made, as someone calls them here, so there's no tycoon in SNS, they're created by some other government in another period, and they all have to pay taxes. I don't see anyone who has the right to avoid this obligation, but there is a legal framework to be fair in the first place, that those who earn the most and those who earn the most from that profit have the highest property, the most and pay that tax. So now some things are being prepared for a set of tax laws that are expecting us in a few days, not to say Sundays. When it comes to the Law on Public Property, what else can I say, a situation similar to that of the state administration, we also have such employees in local self-government. On some wave of revolutions, they came, they got a job, and they're doing nothing again. You can also have the best presidents of the municipalities and the best mayors and the best ministers and the best government presidents, you can't solve that problem until you get that state administration in line. It's similar with local self-government. Someone's asking a question about how to force local self-government. So we can take away their property. Is that the goal? It's not. What other powers the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have towards local self-government. Only to create a legal basis and a framework in which it will exist, because the constitutional category and their self-government are protected by the Constitution. So it's at the will of the local self-government unit assembly to decide who's going to lead them, who's going to be the head of city or municipal administration, but the problem is not in the first man, but in that direct enforcer who came off the street about 10 years ago and doesn't know his job because he was supposed to be some kind of democracy fighter. Let's take a look at the reality of what kind of state administration we have. I don't think we can be proud of it and that these problems you have are precisely from the period of the SNS authorities, but from the period of power of some other parties by 2012. Now because of the global economic crisis and the economic crisis that is always in Serbia, we cannot implement this reform, because someone will say, "God, you're firing party personnel." Someone was talking about the Guarantee Act for the Second Project on Health Protection. Let's take a look in the eye. The cost of one patient from 2001 to 2011 increased by 130% in the health care system. You were accusing a regime until 2001. The regime did not have the Public Procurement Act. How well you applied the law by 2011 says that the costs for one patient to obtain drugs, medical equipment increased 130% or 1.3 times, to translate into a lighter dictionary. Now that we want to ensure more quality supervision of the spending of public funds, the way funds are spent in the Republic Health Fund, the way the funds belong to hospital institutions are spent, then someone says you can't raise those 29m euros that will enable that control and save because we allegedly care about the public debt of the country, or maybe someone is taking care of something else, that there's no more under the grain, that there's no more left hand – the right pocket, because the whole system that was until 2012 became a symbol for that kind of thing. Don't, please, stand up and say that someone paid it in some elections, morally lost, paid the price of the government by losing in the elections, because you're right, I just have to ask the question – how much did every citizen of Serbia pay to one of the bad authorities who brought us into one of these situations that we have to extend the deadlines, that we have to work, to build a country that was destroyed to the ground in 2012? I haven't noticed that those who talk about moral defeats in the elections, that something lives worse than they did before they lost that power. The Serbian Progressive Party will support these amendments and the addition of the law in the voting day because we believe it is necessary not to blame the SNS, but to blame all who participated in the creation of a terribly bad state apparatus.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9401	Thank you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. Ambassador Stefanovic, you have no right to a replica. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: The mention is my party. No, it's not mentioned. You mentioned some in your speech. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: It is mentioned in a negative context. It's not negative. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: How is it not negative? ) In accordance with Article 104, I cannot give you a replica, as I have also suggested to MPs from other parliamentary groups that you have mentioned so someone should guess who is in your impression. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: We are directly mentioned. Look at the stenogram. I'll take a look at the stenogram, and we'll talk about it during the session. I listened very carefully, except when MP Pavicevic finally came to ask me a question. I've been listening to everything, because I know what's coming. We'll make a deal during the session when I get a stenogram, I'll remember that, and then we'll get back to it. Since no more than an authorised representative is answering for a word, I have no one in my system, I can move on to the list. The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9402	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will begin my discussion today by proposing amendments and supplementing the Law on Public Property. The Law on Public Property is a very important system law, namely because it regulates the property of the Republic of Serbia and property rights. When adopted in 2011, the SPS parliamentary group supported this law primarily because the law stipulates a single record of the immovableities of autonomous provinces, local self-government, public enterprises, their dependent societies. The Public Property Act not only provides for the obligation to establish a single record, i.e. a database, but also gives public undertakings the opportunity to finally establish which and how much property they need to carry out their activity and by enrolling property rights on the immovable property they have, it provides them with the possibility that these immovableities should be burdened, to raise the loans they need for business, to serve them as a guarantee, and not for everything they need to address the republican budget and the state. Article 82. The Public Property Act is prescribed deadlines which are two years for public enterprises to apply for registration of property rights, and last year, by amending and supplementing the law, we have already extended the deadlines for autonomous provinces to apply for registration of property rights for autonomous provinces and local self-government is three years. Given that the deadlines for enrolment of property rights on immovable property stand out, and given that all property which these entities have become public property of the Republic of Serbia if we do not extend this deadline and that this would cause certain property-legal conflicts or that property-legal relations between the state and these entities would be complicated, the SPS parliamentary group will support amendments and additions to the Public Property Act, but we cannot without asking who has failed, who is responsible and as long as we allow the law and what is prescribed by law to be ignored. In Serbia, there are more than 650 local public enterprises and more than 40 state-owned public enterprises that have more than billions of euros worth of property. Responsible behaviour of all the entities to which the law applies is expected and when the law is adopted, and especially after amendments and additions to the law, when another chance is given to apply for registration of property rights. To apply for the registration of property rights and to determine what is in the interest of all and autonomous provinces and local self-government and public enterprises, because this is an option, among other things, and to increase their assets and to finally manage their property balances and make it easier for them to operate. So it's really hard to understand and justify why certain local self-governments and public enterprises didn't respect the law, first of all, that this law does not take anything away from them, but gives it to them. It is obvious that it is much easier for everyone to rely on the state, on the republican budget and to act irresponsiblely both to their obligations and property. The fact is that it's a complex business and it's a complex area and we can't exactly blame the management of public enterprises and the management of local self-government, because a lot of it depends on the whole system, depending on the mechanisms that need to help enroll property rights in the immobility cadastre. In addition, we also know that our property-legal relations in Serbia are unresolved, that we still don't know where the state ends, and where it starts privately, and that there's still a lot that needs to be resolved by law, without talking about how catastra is our catastre and how up-to-date the catastre is. In a conversation with the management of certain public enterprises in Smederev, I came up with information on what, other than these unresolved property-legal relations, which in some cases was still a problem. The problem was the lack of valid documentation. You know that it is necessary to enroll property rights in the immovableity cadasar, except for the requirements, to provide some documentation showing either the right of property on buildings or documentation proving that these facilities are built with a building permit, that technical reception is carried out, that there is a valid permit. Most public companies, I suppose, are also in the case of local self-government, do not possess that kind of documentation that has either been destroyed or lost over time, so some public enterprises, for example. She used the Institute of Maintenance, although it must be handled in court proceedings and requires more time, but it is one way, which means that if there is a will and desire to solve something, there can be a way. I don't want to justify or criticise the management of public enterprises, the leadership of local self-government, but I would like to point out once again, in fact to remind us of what kind of administration we are, how responsible we are to those who run our public enterprises, and that in one way, perhaps through an analysis of all the problems faced by those who had the desire to write down property rights on immovable property, to obey the law, did not ignore them, wanted to respect but couldn't, to analyze the problems, because then through this analysis we would come up with justification for the reasons why we propose this new deadline through today's amendment and the addition of the law. These are really serious issues to pay attention to and perhaps establish some kind of control system or some form of coordination that would go from the central level and, of course, include all levels of government, from state to local, so that we don't get back into the situation of extending these deadlines for two years. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which has been applied since 4 July 2014, the deadlines for the start of application of the obligation to submit tax returns by electronic means and the deadlines for today's amendment and addition of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration are extended. The SPS parliamentary group, as authorised representative Nedjo Jovanovic said, will support these changes and additions, because, when the law is adopted, we may need to consider whether we need longer deadlines, because we expect a new set of tax laws, and we know that with these tax laws we need to bring both the information system and the tax administration into line, with these laws we need to adapt and adapt and the taxpayers and therefore we support this and we believe that the extension of deadlines is justified. Since the tax code is on the agenda, I just want to say a few more sentences about how to really pay attention to citizens' information when it comes to these deadlines. counterpart Dragan Jovanovic read the deadlines, none of us have returned to it again, but more attention needs to be paid to inform citizens what deadlines are now proposed to meet their tax obligations. We all have certain rights and certain obligations, but it is necessary for citizens to remind them, raise awareness that this must be respected and show that the taxes we pay are one of the revenues of the Republic budget from which education and education are financed afterwards, etc. I just want to take advantage of your presence, Madam Minister, to point out something that you know for sure, that it is really necessary for the relevant legal solutions to introduce progressive rates of taxation, which will apply more to the rich and less to the poor and make the tax fairer by category and that, what I always say when we discuss tax laws, finally see who owes, what is owed, and to establish a stricter, stronger system of control, and that a real order is introduced into the tax system, in fiscal policy, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9403	The People's MP Janko Veselinovic has the word, and let the MP Vladimir Djukanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9404	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, Minister Udovicki, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today the beginning of the autumn session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We also had an anthem, a guard, a red carpet, as it was already going at the beginning of the session, and we could be expected to have some serious laws here that, given that the finance ministry's proposal is going to lead to a reduction in the budget deficit, the largest in Europe, that it will try to reduce the decline in GDP that is obvious, that it will try to find solutions to the country's difficult economic situation. Perhaps there could have been law in the area of another ministry, let's say from the area of the judiciary, so order that has been paralysing the Serbian judiciary these days. I mean a strike of lawyers and a disastrous Notary Act and even more disastrous application. Perhaps we could talk today, at the beginning of this session, and about the restoration of flooded areas. No, we are talking today about extending the application of some laws, or delaying the application of some laws. However, what I have seen today is the fact that the President of the Assembly is very tolerant. At one point, she allowed MPs to act as if they were in "The Imprint of the Week". The truth is, Mr. Arsic was talking about the impression of the century, so the president seemed more like someone who runs the show "The Impression of the Week", she doesn't listen to me, so she doesn't interrupt me, not as president of the Assembly. But that's not gonna happen. We can talk about the impression of the day, the impression of the week and the impression of the century, but the fact is that we've received laws here from the government that could say that they're under any responsibility for the situation in which the country is. So, honourable Vice President Udovici, you are here today to defend two laws extending the time limit of application, or delay the implementation of some very important laws. Today, I don't know why the finance minister isn't here, you've come to explain why the law on amendments to the Public Property Act will be applied, instead of three years from now, in five years. You know, Madam Minister, this law should have allowed local self-governments to enter their assets, that this property might be subject to some strategic arrangements with strategic partners, some foreign investments, some new employment, more efficient management with that property, and you came today to tell us that we're going to postpone it for two years. I'm asking again - why isn't the finance minister here? He might explain more to us what happened, so we'd better postpone it in two years than apply that law. At one point today, you said the government would question why this law has not been followed so far. Why didn't you do it so far? Why, for the past two and a half years, as far as you're in power, not personally, you've been here for about half a year, but why haven't your colleagues conducted an analysis of the law on public property? Where are your indicators? What local self-governments didn't list what should belong to these local self-governments? Imagine a host who is offered to sign up for his property, which he can have, to own, to mortgage, to attract some foreign investors who don't want it. You go beyond that by delivering the bill to the MPs, which extends the deadline by another two years. I ask the MPs, members of the ruling coalition, will they support such a government act? Do they agree to this dissatisfaction of yours, your ineffectiveness, incompetence, to apply one law, and he is very clear? It is necessary that some officials there, municipal, urban, sit down to work perhaps day and night, as your prime minister announced and wrote down that property. You're giving them two years and nothing. There is no responsibility, neither your, or the finance minister, in fact, the responsibility of the finance minister is difficult to determine because they change as on tape, so the question of the responsibility of the Prime Minister who led these two governments is both the previous and this. Why they became so incompetent ministers and why they don't apply the law. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you said some of the subjects failed to carry out their duties. So, it's about local self-government, cities and provinces, what are you going to do in the next period to make these subjects do that? Did you foresee any criminal provisions for these local self-governments, for those individuals, who won't do the job? No, I don't. You'll probably be back in two years when it expires or after the deadline, as it happens with these laws, so the law will be applied retroactively, you'll probably come looking for a new extension. At least that's easy. So it's about an incompetent government, inefficient, which only works as much as TV cameras are involved. You know that, Mrs. Widowsky. So there's no effect. Only, of course, in TV journals we have results that unfortunately citizens cannot see, or can see, they are reluctant to see through tax hikes and pay cuts. It's the government's manner of delaying the application of the laws already passed. You've only delivered this procedure in the last few months, I'll just list some. Let's say the Law amending the Health Insurance Act, where you extended the deadline by two years. The Law amending the Traffic Safety Act on Roads was in front of lawmakers, where the deadline for the application of the law was five and replaced by eight years. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligation and Social Insurance was then extended on 1 August 2014, and the deadline was extended. So that I don't count and the president doesn't, eventually, intervene, to speak past the subject, but this is a topic. The basic question is being asked. In the Prime Minister's exposé, which I am very happy to read and refer to in terms of what is said and written there. It has been said that curbing the grey economy will be one of the priorities of the republic's government. What was this law that was supposed to introduce tax e-investments meant to prevent a gray economy? So the basic goal of this law and when it was passed was to prevent the gray economy. That is the EU standard, and such tax returns should also be followed by candidates for EU membership. One reason was to comply with European legislation. You extend the deadline for the application of this law even though it is the basis of your government's policy, so you step away from the basic postulates you yourself have drawn. We didn't write them to me. So you're giving up the fight against the gray economy by allowing individuals, who have serious powers in the tax administration, discretionary rights, to decide on the functioning of the tax collection system, and we see how it goes, very badly. Someone just said the percentage of tax revenues is down. The nominal amount of tax collected is falling even though you have increased tax rates and you announce that you will increase additional tax rates, so that those who pay even more, and those who do not pay will not because we have an inefficient state, a law that is not applied and you do not make them applicable further, that I am not talking about retroactiveness. A colleague, Djurisic, said that practically this law would endanger basic constitutional principles, that some laws would be applied retroactively. That's why, of course, neither I nor the parliamentary group can vote for these two laws. It's very controversial and the fact that we couldn't have this session without the borrowing law without ratifying the borrowing agreement. So, no session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can pass without some ministers bringing new credit and a new commitment to the citizens of Serbia, how long? You, Madam Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, are pushing us seriously into a major debt crisis, increasing public debt every day. It doesn't matter what the subject of borrowing is, it's not disputed that we need to fix the state of health, but the question is savings on the other side. I don't know how much it's going to cost the parade you're preparing for 16. I don't mean the previous one, but this one now, which will be October 16th, instead of October 20th. Do you know Mrs. Widowsky? If the finance minister had been there, he would probably have answered me and in which position the item was scheduled, even if 16 were held.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9405	We'll go back to the subject after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9406	This is the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9407	Public property or deadlines?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9408	About the loan, Madam President. So we're in charge of over 20m euros, for health care, justifiable, but maybe some part of the money could have been raised, which would reduce some unnecessary costs, some unnecessary parade. That is why, although we have a desire to support every project that goes towards repairing the health situation, of course, we would like to hear that this first phase of this project is realised, because the state of health is very bad. Finally, I call on the ruling coalition's MPs not to vote for these two deadline extension laws and thus to let the government know that it is required to respect what you voted for, because only three months ago you voted for these deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9409	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9410	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. You know, when you're trapped, you only have the impressions of a week, and you don't want to see the impression of a decade. The impression of a decade, I must admit, Mrs. Udovici, I'll agree that I don't like this extension of deadlines, but the impression of a decade has been completely broken by the administration of this state, which obviously wasn't capable of applying the law the way we wanted it to, and you're simply forced to extend the deadline. Why is our administration so destroyed, destroyed? You should ask some who have now been called that the current government is incompetent to apply the law. We've had and we still have an abnormal administration. I don't think China would stand for that either. In doing so, it's highly inefficient. And by the way, as they hired her, I'll read it to you now, since the tax administration is now on the agenda. I got the answer from the tax administration as an MP. I asked the question – why and how will someone answer, and why has the tax administration been so inefficient all these years? Thanks to the tax administration people who sent me the answer, I'll read some parts, and see how someone's been hiring in our administration. This is an official response signed by Deputy Chief of Staff Nenad Mladenovic and Deputy Director of Tax Administration Marko Marinkovic: "According to this, it is under way to verify the legality of the employment of officials in the Tax Administration, where it has been observed that during the previous period, in relation to certain posts of persons who do not meet almost any of the conditions for the job prescribed by the rules on the systematization of jobs in the Tax Administration. Accordingly, in addition to the examination of diplomas, the process of determining the responsibilities of authorised persons in the process of admission to employment shall be carried out. “ So much for the expertise and competence that we have left here and is now required by the current government that what someone watered as a root, which is a completely destroyed administration and a completely destroyed tax system, you are now asking someone to correct all this within two years. By the way, speaking of the tax administration, I will read some other parts of this reply, very interesting: “You mention irregularities – there is talk about the entire internal control carried out in the tax administration itself – they were about the non-enterprise or untimely taking or stalling of legal actions prescribed by the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which concern the fulfilment of the tax obligations most often of all by large taxpayers. Due to such illegal treatment, the tax of claims dating back to 2009, has not yet been paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia." Why, gentlemen, didn't you charge big debts back then? The current leadership is very effective at doing its job, I'm talking about what's come since August, and I welcome them. Where someone couldn't get their noses up, the IRS went in. I mean rafts, I'm talking about large catering facilities that no one was supposed to control, about tycoons, have recently even entered "Farmaco", I'm talking about many other segments, about the illegal gambling market. I want to say hello, because they're finally going to do their job. And they went into internal control of the tax administration itself, where there have been a series of irregularities, where the prosecution has initiated certain criminal proceedings against the director of certain branches. I don't know what anyone's talking about here. When we talk about curbing the grey economy, they have also provided me with some data, it says: "From 8.990 controls – talk about the period from January 1st 2014 to 13. 09, I must stress that certain staff changes have been made there too, and in the meantime I would like to praise particularly this segment from August to September and what is done – which have the correctness of accounting and payment of public revenue, in 3,583 controls, which is 39,85%, irregularities have been identified and 2,110 requests have been filed for the initiation of the infringement procedure, as well as established public revenues totalling 10 billion dinars." So someone's still going to work and suppress that gray economy and the question is, why has the gray economy been so developed all this time? Also, 12.881 traffic recording control via the fiscal register. 2.929 taxpayers found irregularities, which is 22.74%. Are you aware of how much that is? 2,688 requests for the launch of a criminal liability have been filed, and a measure of temporary ban on the exercise of activity against 1,120 taxpayers has been imposed against 1,120 taxpayers. This is just a clear indication that the current leadership of the tax administration and how it went well. And the fact that someone has not worked before and thus allowed the development of a gray economy, that the system is completely destroyed, that should ask a question to some of your managers who used to run the tax administration and our entire administration. Anyway, what I have to point out, I'm sorry these deadlines are extending. I'm really truly sorry. But this is the only way to try. Otherwise, when you're talking about the tax administration here in particular for these IT systems, take good care of who's doing our IT systems, because one of the reasons why the tax administration's ineffectiveness is exactly the information systems that are currently in it. Someone deliberately disintegrated that system, so you have four different softwares, and none are compatible with each other, and that's why you don't have any real insight into what's going on and how much who owes. But I'd really like you to make sure who's doing these information systems for us, because I really welcome what's going on through an electronic application, and that's something that's perfectly normal in a civilized world and that's really desirable, because you can't deceive a country like you've been doing so far. I would really ask some predecessors who have fallen into the trap not to bring up something they do not know or deliberately want to know and not to deceive the public because the data per period when they were in power is very defeating for them. I can only say that what the IRS is doing today is commendable. I believe that some other segments and other institutions will also work so well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9411	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, Professor Vladimir Pavicevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9412	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Mrs. Udovici, the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, I believe that just before, during Mr. Djukanovic's speech, the Honored Chairman, the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, in Article 106, which states that the speaker can only speak of the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. Please allow me to explain why I consider the Rules of Procedure injured. Mr Djukanovic, I listened carefully to Mr Djukanovic as I listen to all the MPs, he spoke about employment in the tax administration, about payments in the tax administration, about the management of the tax administration, and here, Mrs Udovicki can testify, this is not the topic of our first point of this session. The theme of our first point is four draft laws, none of which concern what Mr Djukanovic was talking about. Dear Chairman, I believe that you would warn me if I, within this point, started talking for example about the fact that the political ban is "The impression of the week", that there is censorship of the media. And as you would do in my case if I were to do so, it is my advice and recommendation that you stick to the Rules of Procedure and that every time any member of the SNS, whose member you are, violates this Rules of Procedure, warn him, warn him, to stick to the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9413	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead? (Yes) Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9414	Member of the 109th insult of Parliament's dignity. You know, when someone reports for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then it's time to be extremely honest because all this stuff I'm talking about was the predecessors from the parliamentary group that he's sitting in, so it didn't bother him to talk about both "the impression of the week" and the way the state is incompetent, etc. I'm just sorry that the truth hurts him, because those with whom he's sitting have just led the country to this kind of chaos and of course he has to react in this way, inappropriately. But in any case, this country has moved forward, and I'm just so glad they show up in a completely pointless way to explain something that really doesn't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9415	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The word has been made by Professor Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9416	Dear Chairman, I now advertise Article 107. (National MP Vladimir Djukanovic from the post: I have advertised Article 107) You said it was a 109th misquote, Mr. Djukanovic. I heard it and it's in a stenogram, the Honorable Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9418	Mr. Djukanovic, don't throw it out of the bench. Mr Pavicevic, a member of 107, was advertised by Mr Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9419	He said, "Article 109." Some people here hear, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9420	I'm sorry. Suggestion, Article 109. You're right. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9421	I must now say again that Mr Djukanovic, the Honored Chairman, is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Now Article 107. It's the 107th member of the National Assembly. Instead of allowing you, the Honorable Chairman, to explain to Mr Djukanovic that he must no longer violate the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, you are allowing Mr Djukanovic to now explain how someone else in his view violated the Rules of Procedure and you did not react. So it was your obligation to prevent Mr Djukanovic from breaking the Rules of Procedure again, to say in five minutes. Instead of preventing him from violating the Rules of Procedure, you allow him to intervene even on the basis of the contents of the wrong member of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Chairman, my proposal is just not to talk about the tax administration now, because we too can talk within this point then and about "The Imprint of the Week" and about censorship in the media and autocracy in Serbia. My suggestion is to talk about the agenda point, the Honorable Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9422	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. You're just contesting what you're doing. I let a democratic one explain why you think the Rules of Procedure have been injured, and you dispute that I allow your colleagues to also explain why the Rules of Procedure has been injured. So until I hear what you're saying, I can't react, or I shouldn't react. As I listened to you all the way, so I listened to Mr. Djukanovic. It's ugly that you use this way to hurt the Rules of Procedure. The word has a People's MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9423	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, but I can't sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9424	I don't have you in the system, Mr. Granny. Try the second unit, since we have information that one number of units is not working. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9425	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Injuries of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 32, 106 and 107. I know that for one part of the people in this room all the good that's going on in our country is not a topic. I know that some people hurt when Mr. Djukanovic presented all the good things that happen in the context of the tax administration. As soon as there's some good news from Serbia, it's not a topic. Do these people love their country? I don't think they like it. Is this where the critical tone should be directed? Yes, of course, it's useful, it's necessary, but so much hatred for good topics and for affirmative things, it speaks more of them than of this government and this state. On the other hand, what I'm also warning you, Mr. Chairman, is that you have to warn people when they start to go behind some things that I believe they know, but they don't want to interpret. Private property is sacred. Does anyone expect the state to interfere in the work of a private company, say – put on that show, or don't put on that show, or something like that? I don't want to build a country where the state gets involved in the work of private companies. If someone promotes, asks and suggests what a private company has to do, it's more like trying to introduce censorship, introduce dictatorship, introduce a few people who are now shadow ministers, so in the shadows appear in front of some television and try to influence the programming scheme of private companies and private television...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9426	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9427	Please warn that private property is sacred in every state, including Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9428	Would you like to make a statement in the voting day? (No) I thank you. The word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure has Professor Vladimir Pavicevic. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Becic, respected Mrs. Udovici, respected guests from the Ministry, honored guests, was injured by Article 108. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which states that the session of the National Assembly is being held by the old President of the National Assembly, in this case the chairman, or you, Mr. Becic. Here's how you don't take care of the order in this National Assembly. Mr. Babic just reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, advertising Article 32. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In Article 32, the vice president of the National Assembly helps the National Assembly to do business in its work. So, you are now, obviously all of us, helping the president of the Assembly do business from its work. Therefore, it is obvious that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure pursuant to Article 32. Your obligation was, Mr. Becic, when Mr. Babic finished his speech, to tell him that it was not the basis for him to intervene on the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 32 and not only to insult the dignity of you personally and of all the MPs, but to contribute to the fact that you cannot take care of the order at the meeting of the National Assembly. As far as the other issues are concerned, Mr. Becic, why the "Sun impact" was lifted, why there is media censorship in Serbia, we wait for the Prime Minister to come here and talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9430	Mr. Pavicevic, if you had listened carefully, you would have heard Mr. Babic call for an article. 32, 106 and 107. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: It is not possible in 106 when someone already called on him. ) (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What do you think? [[overlapping from the O.R.: Oh, I mean...]] What do you think? Mr. Zivkovic, don't threaten from the bench to another MP. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I didn't say anything to you. Mr. Zivkovic, you cannot threaten from the bench to another MP. To me as chairman, you can, not a problem, but not another MP. Please all return to the debate, or I'll take a break, because this has gone too far. If one MP threatens in the National Assembly to another MP, this has gone too far. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Let's pay attention to what's going on. Mr. Zivkovic, please don't do this. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Don't ask me anything. I'll have to apply the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9431	Article 107, Mr. Chairman. It is not the first time in this National Assembly that a threat has been directed from the same fellow MP, or even a threat sent to fellow Shormaz a few weeks ago or a few months ago, which was said, or I'm going to put you on a lamppost, or I'm going to put you on a lamppost, too. And threats again. I can understand the anxiety, I can understand, you know, when a minister is in the shadows, so there's no such authority, there's no possibility, there's no such thing as what he'd like to do, and probably to empty here two-thirds of the parliament, but I'm asking that the threats in this National Assembly, with the microphone on or off, are no longer repeated. I would also ask my colleagues to be correct enough, to be fair enough, and it seems to me that three weeks ago Mr Pavicevic and I were on a dual show, beautiful, cultural, fine, decent, one hour and a half ago, where each of us could have been without any restrictions, and Mr Pavicevic is calling for censorship in Serbia, no one has censored him, no questions or answers, no questions at all. I enjoyed that show. She was very correct, cultural and decent. Now, after such a show, and it is not the first, nor the last, not only with it, but with many other colleagues, I am very happy to respond, it is now suddenly said – there is censorship in Serbia. What are you proving? What are you showing her?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9432	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9433	By participating, by having more of you in the media than in the Serbian Progressive Party. Please, you must be correct enough and fair enough in front of the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9434	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9435	We've heard and we've witnessed that this is the beginning of a regular autumn session. There was an anthem, there were flags, there were guards, and unfortunately nothing has changed, again this Assembly is dealing with things that are difficult to put into the first order of priorities of life in Serbia. It is difficult for the postponement of the administration's obligations, whether at local, regional, or state level, to be the most important thing to open a regular session of the Serbian Parliament. These joined four points, we support the joint international agreements without entering into their essence. They are needed and there is no story there, but the proposal to amend the Law on Public Property and the Proposal to amend the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration are inadmissible. As I recall last year, somewhere early in the summer, the application of this law was delayed for a year. Today, after about 15 months, we have a proposal to postpone the application of this law for another two years. Let's bid on what happens in two years. Will they then be asked to be postponed for ten years? Are Serbian citizens guilty of this, and we represent Serbian citizens? No, it's the bad clerks, the ones who've been brought in in the last ten years on one side or this side and who don't let good clerks do their job. It's their bosses who have become that because they have a membership card on one side or the other and of course they're the ministers, three of them in this period, who haven't done anything to enforce the law. What a pain, which is a special knowledge, a special courage, the miraculous powers needed to remember what his property is, and to apply to the competent authorities for it to be entered in the list of his assets. What wisdom is that? Does that require any special supernatural powers? Does that require any technology that's not yet known to the human race? Does that require anything, which would be so much above what normal administration work is? Of course, when we condemn those who forgot to do so, I mean the presidents of any municipality, from any party, I mean the administration of the province which is not part of the ruling majority of the present and of course of course of the state authorities. Special examples are public enterprises. Not to talk. Let's say that some local self-governments are under-experienced, that they have insufficient knowledge, whether there's enough capacity in Black grass, or if I don't know there's enough capacity for such a thing, but in public enterprises, where wages are huge, where there are three times as many as they should. Where when someone no longer heads up becomes a consultant, we have 50 advisors from the former director. If there were no conditions to finish one job, it was a disaster. We have proposed after the deadline expires today, as I recall, that the deadline be extended by three months, until New Year's Eve and that it be the last deadline for the admission of public property. If he doesn't sign up by then, it becomes state property. Whoever didn't manage, who isn't competent enough, who wants to manipulate something, who's stupid so he can't do it, should lose his property. The property will not go down the Danube, Sava, or I don't know where, but will remain the state property of the Serbian state. Therefore, it remains there, and the state may later, if necessary, if it is seen that some mistake has been made for no great reason, or for an objective reason, that the state may transfer without compensation to some local self-government, public enterprise or province, as far as possible. This law puts off reforms for at least a year with the tendency to be a permanent process of postponement and thus reward them, if they do not reward, then at least they do not punish those who have led to this disgrace. The adoption of this law will be a disgrace to the Serbian parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9436	Thank you. The word is Marijan Risticevic. Let Gordana Komic prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I join criticism over inefficient local self-government and public enterprises, due to an inefficient administration in the AP Vojvodina that has failed in the past two years to register property. To correct my fellow farmer, it's not about the Law on Public Property, it's about the Law on Public Property. I wasn't the prime minister, but at least I can read the titles of the bill. I did not understand the predecessor, whether he suggested that the AP Vojvodina, that local self-government, that public enterprises whose founder is the AP Vojvodina and whose founders of local self-government were left without property, so that we punish them, to order them to enter their property for which they should receive the appropriate consent of local self-government, the AP Vojvodina, in the next three months. It is a procedure that certainly takes longer than three months and cannot be completed quickly. Therefore, the billmaker was extremely flexible and extended the deadline from two to five years. He gave the opportunity that if not this administration, given that elections are closer to 2016, that if this local administration and this province administration do not make and register their property, public property, do not register the property of public enterprises, that in such situations some more efficient local self-government, perhaps my fellow farmer will win power in the AP Vojvodina, perhaps his party will win power in local self-government and thus gain the possibility that a future more efficient local self-government and some more efficient administration than it is currently in the AP Vojvodina to register property and thus avoid being state-owned for a time. I think we had to extend that deadline. The congregation exists precisely to make bill proposals, to make solutions. This, as far as I know, takes effect on October 6th. Therefore, it is very necessary for the Assembly to pass the law and thus enable local self-government, allowing the AP Vojvodina to register its property in a legally prescribed manner. I agree that local self-governments, and we have witnessed the situation found in 2012, that local self-governments that were almost uniform, which were hacked, were conquered, won, were quite inefficient, and that this ineffectiveness, regardless of party colors, was continued in many areas, especially in the province. I agree he's got extra labor. I agree there are extra local officials. I agree that there are surpluses in public enterprises, but because of this surplus, we should not punish local self-government, we should punish local officials, local officials, but we should not punish those who are least guilty, and these are citizens who in some way become shareholders of public property. This is not the property of a director, advisers in public enterprises who have just not pushed pets into local self-government, i.e. public enterprises in local self-government, especially in the AP Vojvodina, and can be talked about. I'm the vice president of the party that rules in the AP Vojvodina's story of aunts and shrews. There is also a reason to talk about the ineffectiveness of a party operating there. By the way, there was a former farmer on the list. So, no matter where anyone rules, I agree that there are unsupervised officials, but they have brought their public enterprises and their local self-government before the possibility of losing that property, and in principle public property belongs to all citizens. So, each of the citizens is in a certain way, if local self-government has 50,000 inhabitants, then each of the citizens is a fifty-thousand shareholder of that property. It is public because it belongs to all citizens and should not be put in a position to lose that property or to order that some local self-government that has not done so within two years and some public enterprises that have not done so within two years now be effective and enter that property within the next three months. I think the proposal is quite inconclusive and that this three-year deadline gives the opportunity for the existing local self-government, the existing furniture in the AP Vojvodina to carry out their legal obligation and thus enables citizens to benefit by using public property. Otherwise, if we don't extend that deadline, there would be the biggest damage to the citizens, and the least per official in local self-government, AP Vojvodina, public enterprises, because they have no problem anyway, they have their own big salaries. I think that the damages would be caused by citizens who separate from their churches for the functioning of these public enterprises, and if they lost that public property in that case, they would lose, and also some public revenues, and in such a way the citizens would be in a position to raise more money than they would lose if they entered this property. In this situation, we would also be punished, because we would have to, in addition, be able to finance these public enterprises that don't write that property, and I'm in favour of not punishing the citizens. I'm up for it if criminal provisions are to be introduced for those who come to work at 11.00 p.m., at 12:00 already planning to go to lunch at which bar they're going to go to, and I'm in order to punish that kind of behavior in local communities, in local self-government, public enterprises, and I'm not responsible for punishing citizens, and so I think the proposal that my previous speaker made about a three-month period of three months is quite inconclusive to punish citizens, not those who are guilty of extending this deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9438	The word is Gordana Comic, let Vladimir Pavicevic prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9439	Thank you. The first of the laws in today's principled search that I will try to make a few remarks with the hope that I will deserve your attention and that I will encourage government representatives to think deeply about remarks that are not critical in terms of the author of the law, or what I am saying as a member of the opposition DS, but are important who wants to hear. Therefore, the draft Law amending the Law on Public Property in two members in front of the Assembly has made an imminent decision that the work that, by publishing an indication of the Law on Public Property on 28 September 2011 had to be completed by 6 October 2014, has not been completed. The additional information is that this law was already in this Assembly a year ago and there was no analysis of whether or not the 2011 Public Property Act required all actors and local self-government and the circuit administration and public enterprises to act. So none of that happened. Now we have a proposal to extend, and it really doesn't matter if it's going to be another year, another two years or another three months, because we haven't changed the access to the job that needs to be done, and that's what I'm asking you to pay attention to. We constantly expect different results by doing the same. It's just not possible. In response to the Deputy Prime Minister's response as many of those who were required under the law did their job, the answer was – an analysis will be done. That's the answer we heard in 2013. That's one of the most common answers I've heard from the president of the executive authority, whoever did it, whether I support them or not. You can't change what you can't measure. This is called "mommy" analysis in the speech among people who are interested in data analysis. So, by which the argument of this bill to extend the deadlines to another two different arguments than a year ago or three years ago and they said – will be "my mother". This approach must change, if we do not understand it, we will see you here on September 30th 2016 with a sentence – it will be a great shame, because they have not submitted public property requests to those who are legally scheduled to do their job. There won't be any personal responsibility for anyone who hasn't done the job, nor do I see here that this proposal for an extension of the deadline is some sort of personal responsibility for who we're going to come to 30 September 2016 to extend the deadline. You can't use the same approach and the same treatment to get a different result, except for what we have, which is that we don't have an orderly system of public property. I understand, objectively, it's a huge job. Unfortunately, I know the data about what problems Serbia has with property, how much we don't care if we have property data, how superficial we are, how embarrassing it is to yell that you love the country you live in, and that no one has bothered to take instead of the deed and unfortunately abolished former land books, they also told us, just to cut the land books and everything will be great. It's the same approach. It's not what it's called that has the same approach, nor is it his political party, it's our insensitivity to get the same result, failure. I would no longer like anything in the world than to change this law and within a short period of five years, we receive requests from the Public Property Act and finally begin to look like a regulated system. I don't have a single fact that I can rely on and say, here there's a measured, there's data, there's hope, there's an analysis that changes access. It's an observation that I'd like us all to think about together, because the damage from now on is equal to the approach to system editing, and the expectation of different results. That damage is common. It has nothing to do with the election, or who the minister is, or who's smart, or who's beautiful, or who's got nothing to do with anything, it has to do with our shared irresponsibility with the system in which public affairs are to be done. With the second law, the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration is a matter only in a few different ways. However, it continues with the same approach, as the reason for the introduction of new corporate tax, the tax on non-life insurance premiums, is that the deadlines shift from four months to two years. Why? The last amendments to the law were passed in July 2014. So that's where I get involved, and we're always acting the same way, and we're expecting another result. That's not what we're doing. In July, we had our last changes, in July 2014. We haven't had an estimate to extend the deadlines for this Tax Administration Act from four months to two years, but in September we have this assessment based on what? An explanation by no one's fault of the author's explanation, but by my own opinion when I hear two sentences when I hear it. One sentence – it is not my job, and the other sentence is – cannot be adapted to the information system. This has nothing to do with it but my personal attitude of deep impatience towards both sentences, because electronic administration, or even electronic business in our society, is not working because someone says somewhere – where is your seal? And there is no minister, and there is no coalition and that opposition that will change that, because he's like that with that sentence safe in his place because we don't all change the approach to solving the problem. Explain that this is now being extended because there are going to be new laws, so it takes time to adapt to actually be electronically processed by tax administration data, it just doesn't stand. That why it doesn't stand is written in the law itself, because we talked about his changes three months ago. If three months ago we failed to measure the system to know what kind of response it would give to the provision of a law that speaks of electronic transmission and electronic processing based on what we now know? It's not criticism, it's not even commendation, it's unfortunately a description of the situation. I will talk about this description of the situation whenever I see that we are extending deadlines or that we are making any provision with what I call "mothers we" analysis, and without really measuring the system, because it is a pity from our voluntary joint decision to change the approach to solving the problem, it is a common damage, and I do not see that in Serbia because of the laziness of the spirit in the interest and in benefiting that we have common damage in the approach to solving problems and property, i.e. public property, i.e. the way in which applications and electronic processing of all types of tax revenues are submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9440	Thank you. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9441	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Udovici, the Honored Guests and Honored Guests of the Ministry, in this joint principle and single search of four points of the agenda, the MPs here today mentioned various kinds of impressions, someone mentioned the impressions of a decade, you are to me Mrs Udovici's "stamp of the week" because you are once again defending the wrong proposals of the law in this National Assembly, in this case two very concrete – on amendments to the Law on Public Property and amending the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration. I will try this court very precisely to explain to you and ask you to engage in the debate and that if a question is asked here that you, as a representative of the Government, answer the question of the MPs, as regards the assessment of the character of these draft laws. For example, the amendments to the Law on Public Property, in fact, Articles 1 and 2 amend Articles 77 and 82. Public property law. The words "three years" are replaced by the words "five years" in Articles 77 and 82 as well. Of course, I immediately wonder when I'm reading this material, why I'm proposing this "five years" instead of "three years" and then I go to this part – the reasons for law-making. In view of the reasons for the adoption of the law, it is said that these amendments are proposed, bearing in mind that a large number of those entities have not submitted requirements for the registration of property rights in public records of immovable property and rights on them and that therefore an extension of these deadlines is necessary. Now I think like this, I conclude by the content of the Bill's proposal, based on an explanation for this content of the Bill's proposal, that someone in the previous three years, respected Mrs. Udovici, was irresponsible, so I conclude. If I'm wrong to conclude, please tell me I'm wrong to conclude. Someone was irresponsible, he didn't report what he was supposed to apply for, and now I'm wondering, here's a citizen of one here, what does the Serbian government suggest in those conditions? The Serbian government is proposing that irresponsible persons be extended the time limit for irresponsibility for another two years. I believe that by such a proposal, Mrs. Udovici, as a representative of the government, you defend that position, it extends irresponsibility. Our opinion was and Zoran Zivkovic just said it, let's not extend it for two years. If necessary, let us extend for three months with a clear message that when the law is adopted, it must be respected and the liability of the persons who were irresponsible in the previous period must be sanctioned. I think it's a real reaction, Mrs. Widowsky. Second example, amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and to the Tax Administration. Here, I accept, if I understand correctly, the amendment of Article 38 is proposed and some deadlines are re-proposed. I go again by the same methodology to the part about this now and when the law comes into force, because it is the second change, Article 2 here says – this law takes effect the next day from the day of publication in the Official Messenger. I learned here now that usually the law takes effect on the eighth day and then I wonder – why is it now the next day? Then I read, it has an explanation in the bill, it says -- it is proposed that this law enters into force the next day from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. Be careful now, gentlemen, in order to allow the proposed legislative solutions to be applied as soon as possible, and all in order to secure revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is particularly justified reasons for the entry into force of the law before the eighth day of publication in the Official Messenger. When I read this, as a citizen of this state, who is informed of the bill's proposals, then I conclude that at this point we have a budget from first thing in the afternoon. If this is an explanation why this law must enter into force immediately the next day, I conclude that the alarm has gone off. Dear Mrs. Udovici, if there is an alarm on our country's budget, please tell the Prime Minister to come to this National Assembly as soon as possible, to talk about the consequences of that and, of course, to take this opportunity. As far as the other questions are concerned, to answer us – why did he cancel the show "The Imprint of the Week"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9442	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9443	Members 107, 106, 104, I could quote all the members of the Rules of Procedure. What's this all about? I know that every MP has the right to ask a question, to express his political position, to be creative in all of this, but such a question is explicitly addressed to the Prime Minister why he abolished a show on private television, bordering on insolence. It's bordered by the insolence that is the least you can do, it's kind of a warning. If someone doesn't want to respect the law, if someone doesn't want to respect the basic postulate rights, which is the right, that private property is sacred, of course, if it's acquired in a legal and normal way and that if someone thinks that the Prime Minister or anyone in this country can set a rule in a private company and promote such a thing and in the least he expects the National Assembly to be convicted, what would that mean? Can we ask such questions on the other side? What's going on with the AP Vojvodina? What do cities and municipalities they run or lead? I ask you to lead this session in the way you have led it so far and to a fellow MP, who has to criticize his increativeness in criticism, and he has to criticise everything and everything, that he uses legal arguments and what is based on law and law, and not that he can talk about anything and ask questions that are really, not to be bordered, but are deeply based on insolence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9444	Dr Pavicevic, there is no replica on the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9445	I'm looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9446	Wait a minute, I have to answer to the previous MP first. So, I apologize to the MPs because MP Pavicevic skillfully said in the last seconds of his time a sentence that was not at all in the topic. Secondly, I'm not sure how you'd react, because I think saying absolute nonsens, that's an accusation that obviously doesn't stand and I don't know about any case of abolishing anything in this country. In order for us to have the right to make such assessments, we must also have concrete indications or evidence, therefore, I really don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, but it is your right to declare yourself on Voting Day. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I don't want to. ) Dr Vladimir Pavicevic's injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9447	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, respected Mrs. Udovicki, honored guests and respected guests from the Ministry, I believe that a recently injured member was 108. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which it states in its first position - on the order of the National Assembly session, is the president of the National Assembly, respected Mrs Gojkovic. Mr Babic recently announced on several occasions that what I was saying in my presentation, that it was bordering on the edge of insolence. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, I must reuse this dictionary of Serbian, to explain the meaning of some of the terms that I consider not to be used in this National Assembly, not just for the sake of members of 108, but also for other members. He says, insolence – shame, insolence, insolence, insolence, insolence, insolence, insolence. Look, gentlemen, if there is a man in this National Assembly, who, in his speeches, holds the agenda points, who never said in a single sentence a word that would demean the dignity of another MP, I think, respected president of the National Assembly, that it was me. I believe that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was injured, when you did not respond to Mr Babic's previous speech, because he rated my performance here in the assembly as an act bordering on the edge of insolence. I believe that such a qualification is a violation of all possible members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I believe that you should have reacted, protected dignity and secured order at the National Assembly session. I'd like to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure in connection with this intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9448	Thank you. I don't even have to answer because you've already decided that I'm going to answer the way you don't like it. As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, the president has to listen to two minutes of whatever you're saying and it is skillfully used by all MPs. You know very well what the Rules of Procedure looks like, so I can't react even while you say certain words. The right of MPs is to state in two minutes why he thinks the Rules of Procedure have been violated. The apostle before you felt that the Rules of Procedure had been injured and I did not respond to your last sentence. I wouldn't repeat it, because I don't want to make any sense of certain sentences at all. So, you think I should have warned, taken the word or removed from the session of my colleague, Babic, because he was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? With the best of intentions, I really don't understand. Then I should be a day away from the session of nearly 250 MPs. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure for anything. Do the MPs still want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Would you like to take a break for lunch? No, I don't. I don't think it makes sense for two speakers to be punished. (Marian Risticevic, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't give you a word. A little patience. Don't all read my thoughts or what I'm going to do, please. I've been consulting if you'd all like to take a break, so let's keep working on the agenda points. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, but that he is neither a member of 104, nor 106, nor 107, nor 108. Here you go. It's all used up. I didn't have time to hurt the Rules of Procedure because you won't let me in at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9449	Article 103, so I could count 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108 and 109. Mr. Babić listed all the violations of the Rules of Procedure from all these members, so Mr. Pavicevic received his word, but apparently I am right...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9450	He's on Article 108.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9451	That member also mentioned a colleague named Babic, but it doesn't matter. I don't have the privilege of the opposition, and I agree with that. I agree that Madam Chairman will always be tolerated. I will stick to Article 103 - the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the president of the National Assembly. I believe that in the last sentence, the speaker who spoke in order used the last sentence to put you in a position to accidentally violate the Rules of Procedure, and in this regard, I suggest that he said in that last sentence that the prime minister should interfere...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9452	Please, don't repeat sentences that were obviously disputed in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9453	I explain to you that Article 103 provides that the MP has the right to orally point to a violation of the actions of the President of the National Assembly. I explain what the injury was in. The injury was that the previous speaker said that the prime minister must at a private television station a private authorial show to determine on which channel private television will be a private author's show, produced by a private network, broadcast and has to come and answer the prime minister. That's almost amazing. I think my colleague has violated all democratic norms. He asks one prime minister to intervene in public information, to thus affect public information and to order private television on which channel he will broadcast a private show, which would be a flagrant violation of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9454	According to Article 103, I really didn't break the Rules of Procedure, because you say I should give you my word, and I gave you my word. My tolerance for MPs, both Babiæ and Pavicevic, and I give them the right to exercise their right to harm the Rules of Procedure, that is not tolerance, that is respect for the rules. I am setting a five-minute break to return to the agenda, because I see that there is no intention of talking about the agenda but about the violations of the Rules of Procedure. A five-minute break and then they'll get the word of colleagues waiting to talk about the agenda. I don't have the will to hold a session on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. This institute is being abused. There is also a measure of taking two minutes away from the total time if it becomes a general phenomenon. [[After a break.]] We continue on the discussions. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9456	President-in-Office, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, fellow MPs, I have listened carefully to the opening statement of the prominent Deputy Prime Minister, however, at least when it comes to the Law on Public Property, I have not heard the argument, because when you say that a deadline that was previously prescribed is extended because it previously stands out, it is not too much of an explanation. It's some kind of logical play, but the essential explanation isn't. What many colleagues participated in the debate today, and I must also point out, is that the previous two-and-a-half years may not have been enough to register public property, but at least they were enough to determine the reasons for which previously prescribed deadlines cannot be respected, and you have not done so, and today you have only promised to do so in some future period. If we do not know the reasons for which the deadline has not been respected, I ask you where are the guarantees that this deadline, or the extension of the deadlines that you have proposed, will be respected? So, if the disturbances that may concern the province, local self-government, public enterprises, and perhaps the Republic Directorates, we have heard absolutely nothing about it, except a whole series of offensive qualifications at the expense of the state administration. I really have to apologize to all the employees of the state administration for having many MPs qualified them as villains and so on. So, if the problem is just the state administration, we didn't hear it today. I don't see any guarantee that this five-year term that you're proposing today will be respected. What is most important to me about this change of the Law on Public Property is the question that we send to investors who have already already entered some negotiation process, so they are now talking to representatives of the Republic government so that in the end it turns out that it is not the Republic, or the property of the Republic of Serbia, but the province, which would be good news, or some public enterprise, which I am not sure is good news or not. We are indeed prolonging the agony, extending the state of legal uncertainty, which certainly will not contribute to it being greater, but rather smaller, the interest of investors whom we will admit is not too much. It sounds very unserious when you're negotiating something, and you don't know whose it is that you're negotiating. I believe that we look to them like those heirs who don't know who all the heirs are, or what their share is, but still negotiate with some potential buyers about selling something they expect to inherit. It's just, it's not serious. That's why I'm pretty disappointed, because there's no explanation left - what's causing the lack of respect for the prescribed deadline? I think there's a key, and I don't think we have time to just figure out what's causing it in some future time. I think two and a half years was enough time for these causes to be determined, if there was a commitment. For the very end, I would ask only the Vice-President of the Government to tell me who is really the authorised amendment of the Law on Public Property here and who defended today and in the previous days this amendment to the Law on Public Property before the committees in charge and who will defend it in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9457	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Goran Ciric, the rest of the group's time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9458	Respected Parliament Speakers, respected Deputy Prime Ministers, respected guests, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, the Government has, by means of a proposal for these laws, by a variety of draft laws which today have shown and recognised its own ineffectiveness in the regulation of parts of the system such as state administrations, local self-governments and, of course, parts of public systems that have not responded to the challenge and deadlines defined by the adoption of the Law, above all, on public property, on the tax procedure and the tax administration. I will remind you that this law, and many of you colleagues were sitting in the previous assembly of parliament, when these laws were passed, it was in September of the month, more precisely 20 September 2011, three years ago, when this three-year deadline was set. So there was not enough efficiency, and you, as a ruling coalition, bear that responsibility both at the level of the republican government and at the level of local authorities that are characterized by this coalition to be more effective and to have better co-operation with the current government. So the full responsibility for what's going on today is right on you. I expected to get clear information in this explanation on what caused the level of inefficiencies to be so high that we could meet these three-year deadlines. The Deputy Prime Minister said that the measure following this finding and after, for some reason, the extension of these deadlines would be a comprehensive study of why the process was not successful. I expected to get a proposal of measures to ensure the realization of this job, because it is necessary for a number of reasons. I will say something that is certainly very important that we have a broader picture of these laws, above all about a set of laws adopted on 20 September 2011, because the aim was to adopt a set of laws that would ensure a comprehensive reform of property rights in the Republic of Serbia. He thinks it's important, too. Therefore, the Public Property Act, the Return Act, the Restitution Act and the Law on concessions and public-private partnerships were adopted. It was this comprehensive reform of property relations in Serbia that should have enabled a large number of useful projects for Serbian citizens, and the goal was primarily to improve the functioning of the state, clear relations between the state and the private sector, and a better foundation of rights, a broad and important ambition for all of us. We are clearly on track to put those objectives off by adopting these amendments to the law for some of the next deadlines. I don't think we have the right to do that, especially given the current status, I'm going to talk about local self-government, in light of the law and the amendments to the Public Property Act. What's that gonna mean for local self-government? That they have shown insufficient efficiency to respond to these challenges, to record their assets, which is a prerequisite for establishing public-private partnerships in fostering local and economic development. We now have a situation in local self-government and the public of Serbia is aware that in many local self-governments you have so many budget debts, inefficient management of local self-government, with large debts, where local self-government, almost all the largest cities in Serbia, are in charge of maintaining the current liquidity, in order to pay only the salaries of the administration. And where are the resources that need to boost something more, not just the lagging communal construction at the communal level, but the incentives for local economic development? It is therefore very important that we all understand that the key resource of local self-government, in addition to budgets, is the key development resource of property. I think that this should be strongly insisted and this is the key and certainly motive for those who proposed in 2011 a set of these laws. In the end, I would like to make suggestions as to how we can make this process more effective, because obviously here in the Assembly, the ruling majority, we will certainly vote this law. We will be against it, but it is important to establish an integrated information system, a more efficient electronic administration. We heard it would be more and more effective in the last two and a half years of your government in Serbia, with the establishment of a office for quick answers. This is the Quick Answers Office. It doesn't have any effect. Here it is necessary that all 175 local self-governments, cities, have direct contact. Here, colleague Vesna has just mentioned the Directorate for Property of the Republic of Serbia as probably a narrow throat, and we haven't heard it from anyone, because it's buried with various incompatible proposals from local self-government with probably documents on the typewriter as from the 19th century or electronic documents that are difficult to process in such a way. I think that the condition, first of all, is the establishment of an efficient electronic system, and complete infrastructure is available to a state where local self-government will directly access the database, and the Property Directorate will verify the justification of these requirements. I think that's how this whole process will be accelerated. Some fellow MPs spoke of the historic step and the unwillingness of opposition MPs to accept any progress in Serbia, as this was a revolution, an electronic, exclusively electronic tax application. Let me remind you that the first electronic tax application was made on 6 February 2009. So, on February 6, 2009, five and a half years ago, there was complete infrastructure and software and communication and infrastructure at the level of digital electronic signature, so something that was necessary and necessary to do that kind of... Those are my suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9459	You've wasted your time. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9460	I don't want to go on with the Rules of Procedure, but it's about one violation of Rules of Procedure, namely, Article 27, which also has to do with the essence of today's debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9461	He's got to do it right after he hurts the Rules of Procedure. You didn't do it directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9462	It's a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9463	When? Ambassador Ziric spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9464	Now, just now and a little while ago. Let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9465	You're already saying yourself that you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9466	There's a breach of the Rules of Procedure in progress at the moment. It is therefore a member of the 27th session in relation to the president of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9467	And when I shut up, I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9468	You'll see you were wrong. So, today, at this session, the law of the defence, as well as in the notice we received from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, writes – Dr Dusan Vujovic was appointed as a representative of the Government of the National Assembly, then the trustee Radmila Jagodic and Sasa Novakovic. Everyone from the finance department. Maybe this is where there's a fact that this law isn't realized. Namely, according to Article 3...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9469	Just about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9470	According to Articles 3 and 9. The Law on the Ministry of Property, public property, is the Ministry of Justice and I wonder, so you have allowed the presidents to enter into the assembly procedure a law with authorised representatives of the Ministry who are not in charge of the application of that law, or to propose amendments to that law, who will enforce that law tomorrow?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9471	Thank you. You spent two minutes. There was absolutely no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're reading the old notice. The announcement by parliamentarians is that the authorised representative in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is Minister Kori Udovicki and Deputy Prime Minister... (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: and everyone else from the Ministry of Finance. We'll listen to the pitches. Please enter the record that we will listen to Mr. Janko Veseinovic's remarks. On the other hand, you spoke as a lawyer yourself. You've interpreted the implementation of the law well as a certain ministry, and for... . (Janko Veselinović, from the city: I for proposing the law. We will also listen to this throw-off of MP Janko Veselinovic. I thank you for your parliamentaryity. This meets all the conditions that a representative of the Government, because he proposes every law to be the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not an individual or an individual ministry, because it does not exist in our system that individual ministries have some stronger power than the very Government of the Republic of Serbia, who here, before us, legislates as the legislator of the law. Kori Udovicki is a representative of the government and anyone who appears here in front of the government is a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry that I have to act educationally when I answer. You have no reply to Janko Veselinović. We'll vote anyway. I guess, because you're always asking to vote, regardless... (Janko Vesenovic, from the post: I do not ask to be voted. I really appreciate it this time. We've spent a list of people who've signed up for the word. Before the search is concluded, I would like to ask, is it my duty to say to the president, or to the representatives of the parliamentary groups under Article 96? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9472	President-in-Office, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, we had a little discussion about who is representing and who can represent the Government and we will conclude this debate without hearing the answers of the Prime Minister, or the Deputy Prime Minister who is there, to certain questions that have been asked. We may hear them in the end, but we won't get a chance to say anything else. I don't think it's correct. We asked concrete questions at the beginning of today's debate, and regarding the Law on Public Property – how many entities so far have not done, how many entities, AP, local self-government, public enterprises have not used the deadline of three years, so now they need amendments and additions to the law for another two years. The second question, concerning the Tax Administration Act and the Tax Administration, which laws are being prepared by the Government today to extend the deadlines that have been defined by the amendments and amendments to the law of July this year? So, in July of the month, Madam Prime Minister, you were in the government, as the President of the Assembly said, voting for a law adopted by the government, not individual ministries. Here was Minister Krstic, who explained, I quoted him as saying, why it is important to adopt these changes with those deadlines, how this will improve the competitiveness of the Serbian economy, and today these deadlines extend for a year and a half in some cases. We are late to make changes and additions, since some deadlines under that law were to begin to apply today, and these changes should not start to apply for six months. These are all reasons why we can't support these laws. I expect in the end, although I won't get a chance to answer, and you could have given us those answers before, so let's tell me something else, that we hear from you what the laws are, which are the reasons for the postponement of these deadlines related to the Tax Administration Act, because you only read to us at first what it says in the reasoning of the law that something will sometimes happen. When, what, I'd like to hear it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9473	The word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, under Article 96.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9474	I'm sorry we didn't get an answer to these questions from a respected minister. This is where I join my colleague, and I believe that we will now hear some clarifications or answers to certain questions in the end. What we now need to conclude, essentially, as representatives of the opposition, is that the government has best presented its work to these bills, i.e. in the previous period, that the government has confirmed, for the second or third time, the inability to impose its own deadlines on itself, that we are once again witnesses of the fact that the tax administration does not work adequately, that we are witnesses that the wrong minister is representing certain laws, that in the committee the completely wrong minister is talking about them, that under the Ministry Act we should do so by Minister Selakovic, not you, and not even Minister Vujovic, who did not come. This concerns the functionality of the Serbian tax administration, which, I repeat, has changed two directors and brought people who in no way can put order into this area. Everything is ready for the electronic way of functioning tax returns. Everything's ready and it can all be over, but for some reason it's extended. We don't know what particular reason it is, so what are the laws that can't apply this now, and why? Also, it is not clear that it remains unclear, completely, regardless of the noises and anger, even the insults we have heard here, which is why, why local self-government, the province, public enterprises get such a long deadline to do something they should have done long ago, no matter what party the municipality runs from, a public enterprise? It's in this story, today it has the basis of these draft laws, irrelevant. Instead of any precise answer, ladies and gentlemen, we've received an insult, an accusation, a story of the past from those who said they'd never look at the mirror again, but only through binoculars. Start looking through those binoculars once. Serbian citizens chose you to look through binoculars. You didn't give them anything. Nothing but choking freedom, what little is left. Now the Honorable Minister comes to the deadlines for which you voted, relocate in order to not know what time. It's unclear why. What's the obstacle? What's the name of that obstacle? Who are these people? What are these municipalities? What companies are these? Let's hear those heroes who are supposed to come out to the citizens tomorrow and ask for their support again, no matter who they are. So I think in this situation, when local self-governments don't have a financial decentralized function, when local self-government becomes increasingly centralized, when money is given to whom it suits, as a pipette, they are unable to resolve the effects of the flood, they are unable to solve matters about public lighting in Nis, but they are able as Mesko to employ 117 people. One hundred seventeen men, five assistant mayors of Leskovec, one of whom, according to him, is in charge of the National Theatre. Imagine that. It's your domain. It is that it is not closely related to the subject, I apologize. But I'm asking you to find some way, with your professional associates, to kind of end these phenomena, because they're in collapsing with the Prime Minister's exposé because they're collapsing with the austerity measures because they're collapsing with the budget deficit because they're collapsing with everything you promise the people. You can't keep your promises. Not at all. You're just talking about the past. And who hates you? No one hates you. I've told you many times - we love you, you're awesome, keep going like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9475	Please don't use those terms. Because you're talking to the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9476	No, I'm not talking to her. I'm speaking, as you've well noticed, quite vaguely to who exactly, but somehow everyone recognizes who needs it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9477	Just about the worship.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9478	That's right. What's wrong with worship? I think you in SNS know that well. Let me get this straight. The fact that today when we have a lot of problems, although it's pleonasm, we have a lot of problems in the state, we have a lot of problems in the fiscal system, we have a lot of problems in the inability to fill the budget, on the revenue side, what's the message we're sending? Today when we introduce notaries that have broken our justice system in five days, as we warned, what is the message? That there's no need, that you can still wait with these tax returns. They're ready. The whole system's ready. Why? What's that interest in not being applied? Is it true that training has passed by people who are waved on the contract? Is that true? I don't know if you can answer me. If Minister Vujovic were there, he might be able to. That's what I'm interested in. No charges. Don't attack. Not cantaries that measure whether someone hates someone. You won't drag us into that mud. You won't. We're not gonna let that happen. We're looking for the truth. We're asking you to say why you're doing this this way? Are you aware of the state of our system, the fiscal and local self-government and the economy and the reduction of pensions and salaries and the declaration that the Assembly will not decide to cut pensions? Look out, please, do you know, dear colleagues, who are we here today? Are we a friend club...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9479	Dear Messenger, six minutes and 47 seconds. You have six minutes and 45 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9480	I'm done. Are we a friend club that talks about ephemeral things or something that are the laws of this country? We won't let anyone take that away from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9481	Thank you. According to Article 96, MP Zoran Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9482	Thank you, Madam President. I listened very carefully to today's debate. I think I only got out of the O.R. once, for a little while. Believe me, on these two draft laws, I haven't really heard the two agreements. There were political views, there were foreigners, there were candidates for some other topics that had absolutely nothing to do with the proposed laws. I don't think the government of the Republic of Serbia, and neither do you, Mrs. Udovicki, need a lawyer to answer questions. The question why in the National Assembly the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is truly degutant and unrecognizable, nor is it in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia is a collective body that draws its conclusions, its draft laws, its decisions, in a collective manner and each of the ministers participates in making those decisions. Of course, someone who voted in favour of the law, even if not from his field, will be able to defend it in both the public and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia before the vote itself. It's past the time when these ministries, we now see in the shadows, when they were special nahiji, when no one could ask anyone for anything. Minister – God. No one can ask him what's going on in that ministry. It was forgotten by the changes in 2012. In this Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the Government of Alexander Vukic and the SNS, you know who, what and how it works and how it works. I see that today, even the anthem has been disturbed by certain fellow Members of the People's Parliaments. She got in the way of the guard. She's got a flag on her. I was happy to sing the anthem. And I would like every day to have a guard and anthem in the National Assembly. I guess that'll remind us of who we represent and what high house we're sitting in. But it was also a distraction for some of the opposition's MPs. Anthem intonation. Guard in the Serbian Parliament. Is that a review of the law? Is that a picture of the National Assembly? It's not. Some colleagues, although not subject to the agenda, were also interrupted by a military parade. The military parade, which will be organised on 16 October, after nearly 30 years, because we have something to be proud of, because the time has passed when, unfortunately, the members of the Serbian Army, whether active or retired, have thrown out the window because of the unresolved housing issue, because of poverty, because of the lack of care of the state and the ministry about them. Also yesterday, 39 keys were distributed from apartments, 30 keys to the Serbian Army's active and nine pensioners. Because Serbia is proud of its military. Because we have something to show for it. Because the Serbian Army has become a factor of stability. Because the Serbian Army is a good talker and a good participant in peace operations around the world. And why does it bother someone to see the citizens of Serbia, in a parade on October 16th? Is that a picture of the National Assembly? No, it's not and it can't be. It also bothered why the director of the IRS came from the BIA. It seems to me, and I know little about it, and there are people who know more about it, and I'm sure it's not easy for BIA to go in with a good check, with tough generals, with good professional equipment, so it's normal and natural, and well and affirmative, that the IRS is run by someone who worked in the BIA and who's clean in front of God and before the law, even though I don't know that man. But as soon as it's such a "backcap", it can absolutely expect it to get support. Shouldn't it have been the logic of the city of Belgrade, so as manager, I should have appointed a driver, although I have nothing against the driver. They're wonderful people, professionals. I truly support and welcome what they are doing, but one driver in the city administration of Belgrade, Dragan Gilas, cannot set up a city manager. True, there is now a large office and the "X5" that he was driving has replaced the defendant's benches, not to mention some others. Are these the frames and the way they become fit? I don't think so. The grudges are -- why these laws? You know, this government, the government of Alexander Vukic is not a shadow government. When something is in the shadows, when something is in the shade, as my Sumadinians say, in the shade rests, in the sun is done. This government is in the sun and in the rain and in the snow and it's being hit by different storms. We're not afraid of these weather opportunities and we'll go through them, but we'll never be in the shadows. Not to be "yes, perhaps not", it is clear exactly which laws are in order and which laws are being discussed. For this government and for this congregation majority, there is no “yes, perhaps no. ” There is a clear plan that was presented in the exposé of the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. Some in this room were deeply disturbed by why the 100 - day plan of government was respected, and it will be respected over the next six months. We're ready for passing hours, and we're ready to say what we're doing. It's not the first time I've missed and extended my deadline, and I'm not happy about it. Because they were laws, and I remember the Insurance Act, which has been extended several times during the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, all for a year, all somehow before the new year, since it was a "made line", has been extended and we still have together insurance societies, both life and non-life. Of course you don't need to look up to bad things. You need to look better. However, the answer that no one has ever asked, or a question that no one has asked, but the answer that no one has given in the last few hours of the debate is what if we didn't pass this law? Then what would happen? Would these assets that the AP Vojvodina, local self-government units and public enterprises have not applied for and entered the right of property, would that property go down the Danube? No, you wouldn't. Through Sava, down Morava, would you disappear, evaporate? No, you wouldn't. It would remain owned by the state of Serbia. Would anyone be in harm's way? No, I wouldn't, but we think that someone who uses this property will use it with the attention of a much better host than it would be a state, that with the attention of a much better host all units of local self-government or public enterprises would do. There was a question and responsibilities. I agree. Whose responsibility is it? The governments of the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly, which proposed this law, and the National Assembly adopted, or empowered and responsible in the units of local self-government, and will remind, primarily, the AP Vojvodina that did not respect all obligations, cities, municipalities and public enterprises? Where is the responsibility of the state? Where's the government's responsibility? Should the Udovici Minister have gone to the AP Vojvodina and said, "Mr. Pitiæ, you didn't do it, and that's what I'm going to do." I apologize for my tone, because often some colleagues, as soon as a critical tone is made in the past, immediately consider it to be noise and anger. I'm not loud, I'm not angry. The question I'd like to delegate today, and I think that's essential, the laws are like children. It's not enough to have them. It's not enough that we're going to vote this law on Friday. We have children to raise, we have to follow the children, we have to correct the children, sometimes we have to scold, we have to commend the children more often. I don't want to lose two years. I would like you, Mrs. Udovici, to pass it on to your colleagues in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and I think it would be a good practice not only for this law, but for many other laws, which is to say once in three months, because...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9483	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9484	... I end up, once every three months, going out to the National Assembly, making a website, making a show, and saying, "Here, for these three months, and these local self-government, these and these public enterprises have applied and entered the right of public property, and these are not." So they'll be a little ashamed, and in local self-government, local self-government and public enterprises...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9485	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9486	One sentence and I'm done. ... And in the units of local self-government, there are people from parliamentary groups, or parties from all parliamentary groups. We're all responsible for why this time is wasted, and it's not done. Let us remind them every two months, every three months of these people to be ashamed of them if they don't do something like that in the next two years. I think it's a correct approach and a creative approach. In any case, the SNS will support these legal proposals in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9487	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9488	Madam President, gentlemen and ladies MPs, thank you for the discussion and for the attention that has been given to these laws. I would answer the questions that have been specifically asked and also emphasise that further MPs will have the opportunity to respond either to my answers or to further discussions through the procedure provided for by law. There is still a discussion on committees and in particular. First, I will answer a very specific question about what has been done with the First Health Development Project, which today's law on confirming the Agreement is a follower. This first health development project is fully implemented. Approximately 99% of the appropriations have been withdrawn. He was involved in the development and implementation of hospital software in four hospitals at the beginning of a funding reform at secondary and tertiary levels of health care, by introducing quality monitoring of healthcare, the establishment of accreditation processes and accreditation of health institutions, by raising the capacity to assess health technologies in Serbia. The total funds for the project spent amounted to 10.2m euros. During the project, it was agreed that the Ministry of Health was engaged in a system of diagnostic related groups and, in fact, during the implementation of the first project, the system was piloted and it showed excellent results. The World Bank expressed great satisfaction in the implementation of the First Project and advocates continuity in improving health care in the way it is now agreed in this project to the follower. When it comes to not necessarily being accompanied by a previous analysis of the results of the regulations, namely the results of the policies that the Serbian Government is conducting in any mandate, it is that such a monitoring system has not been established in Serbia by previous governments and in fact conditions that such a system of monitoring of key policies can only be established within the framework of this government, but it is impossible to expect them to produce results within four months. In that, let me say, the bush lies a rabbit and with a question that has been asked many times today, and that's how it can happen that we have a regulation, and it's not actually being implemented. Should we punish these local self-governments, the province or public enterprises? What we need to do to make sure that this time it will not be as one letter said – my mother, the deadline will be realized. To be sure, we need to implement these very comprehensive reforms that we are now working on, which require time, which is that we have systematic monitoring of the implementation of the rules. What's the matter? This government has inherited a series of laws that have not been implemented to the end. How to choose, which resources and who exactly will you put pressure on to implement any of these regulations? It is simply important to make sure that we do what is most important to achieve the objectives of this government, and no doubt it is important to settle the relationship of property, public or private, and in the context of the public at different levels of government of different types of property. However, the fact that a law that seemed logical to those who brought it to that extent was not implemented tells us about the likely existence of a problem with the law itself. It would be logical for local self-governments, the provinces and public enterprises to be paid off if they wanted to enter their property. How is it possible not to do that anyway? We have to answer that and it requires a deeper analysis, we think it is important to link that analysis to the other problems that exist when it comes to the availability of property in Serbia, or by ownership, which this government inherited and how, not only from previous ones, but from previous governments. It's a problem that's been piling up over the past decade. A two-year deadline is simply a time limit that will allow it to continue on one side with the resolution, writing property into some rhythm that can, given the experience we see so far and where we hope to give results, or, as I hope, be made, as Minister of Local Self-Government in particular, to find a way to simplify this system, to encourage, to make the decision of property more stimulating than the cost, at a cost, to the effort currently required by such a job, simply imposes on the subjects to change and to realize what should be our obvious goal. Finally, it is only then that it may be simply a matter of complete irresponsibility, in which case we are again working on changes and additions, that is, the new general government procedure law which will put a better and clearer question of responsibility for achieving the deadlines set in everything that is done as an administrative procedure and that we expect that, in due course, the problem that has been accumulated over the past decade and a half, over the next two or three years during this term of office of this government will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-01-0.u9489	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the joint principled single search on pAredlogs of the law referred to in points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours, according to points 5 and 6. Thank you.
