ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 141 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 141 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14896	Thank you. Due to the icy rain that was falling and the strong wind, all three power lines supplying the Majdanpek municipality were harassed. Since 1 December, at 17.00 hours without electricity, more than 18,000 citizens have remained, so far for 65 hours. You can't see the end of this. The most dramatic is in the town of Majdanpek itself, where about 5,000 people live in residential buildings and saltworks, which have no alternative heating capability, are connected to remote heating. In addition to the lack of electricity and heating, no water and communication were made difficult for some time. The ESM responsible, the Director-General and the Executive gave early statements describing the difficult situation on the ground, difficult conditions in which ESM workers are trying to remove the malfunctions. The first promise that Majdanpek would receive electricity was for 2 December at 15.00 hours. In the absence of this, the Minister for Mining and Energy himself announced, promising citizens that the electricity would arrive at 22:00 hours. Madam President, I ask you to silence the Members of the ruling majority. They obviously don't care about this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14897	They're interested, but they're commenting on your question. I beg the MPs, just a little quieter.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14898	I don't think anyone should comment on the MP's questions. Please take care of this session properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14899	I'm not going to comment on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14900	There were claims that electricity is about to arrive, because the EMS will apply an unstandard technical solution and here, on the fourth day, all the information that comes from the authorities is in the manner – now, and when, we don't know. The whole of Serbia survives the drama together with the citizens of Majdanpek and probably no one from statements coming from the authorities can decide when the drama will pass. They gave inaccurate information, they made easy promises, and as time went by, it was less and less certain that we would really know when the damage would be removed. Minister Antic, on 3 December at 15.00 hours, says – so far we have had four attempts to repair the power line, but all four attempts have failed. There will be no evacuation for now, because we believe that one of our plans will soon bear fruit. Question for Minister Antića – is there a priority plan by which the power grid failure is removed or multiple plans are implemented simultaneously? The second question - did the EMS authority do everything possible under the given circumstances? The third question – were any decisions delayed? I believe the EMS workers, next to the citizens of Majdanpek, are the hardest. I appreciate their work under extremely difficult circumstances, risking their lives to remove the consequences of the haiarium. But it should also be understood for the citizens of Majdanpek, whose patience is at an end, because, behold, the fourth day lives in impossible conditions. In Majdanpek comes help, for example, hospital aggregates and emergency services at home of health, bread, water, blankets, canned food, but there is not one of the most necessary, which is heating at such low temperatures. It's an emergency. We all know that, but he doesn't seem to know the interior minister, whose jurisdiction is the emergency sector. He and his associates should have assessed the seriousness of the situation, the circumstances and suggested the declaration of an emergency situation. Question for Minister Stefanovic – why has the emergency situation not been declared in the municipality of Majdanpek, which has been without electricity for the fourth day? Minister Velimir Ilic was in Umka yesterday. Isn't the situation in Majdanpek alarm enough to be visited by an emergency minister? In September of the month, before the Maydanpek extraordinary local elections, the ministers and the Prime Minister were racing who would come to our municipality more often, some even by helicopter. Now, apart from Minister Antić, there is no one, not even those who do the work in the nature of the work they do should be in Majdanpek. The question for the prime minister – why didn't he schedule an emergency cabinet session to discuss the possibility of resolving the agony of the citizens of Majdanpek, since the problem was clearly overcome by the Minister of Mining and Energy, or does he think there is no need for an emergency cabinet session? SNS volunteers, who had hundreds from all over Serbia in Majdanpek during the election campaign, visited the citizens of Majdanpek several times a day. I ask the Prime Minister - where are the SNS volunteers to help old and powerless citizens with their activities, to bring them at least bread and milk? Since the icy rain, wind and low temperatures have caused this much trouble in Majdanpek, and the winter has not yet started, I ask the Government if he is ready to welcome this... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14901	My microphone's not working. You've gone way too far. You have no obligation to take care of the Rules of Procedure, but only I to interrupt, then I interrupt you, there you go. Thank you. (Branka Karavidic, from the scene: But I am not finished.) ) The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14902	Thank you. Lately, in the municipalities of Bujanovac and Presevo, and I believe in other environments, authorised persons of the operator of the Elektroditsk System Vranje, in order to determine whether electricity consumers use the condition, in a way and for the purposes of establishing the accession authorisation, sales contract, law and other regulations adopted under Article 151. Energy law, entering private institutions and houses. To be clear at first, that my question would not be wrongly interpreted, it is quite justified that, based on the provisions of the Energy Act, workers of Elektrodistribution Vranje have powers for such controls and it is quite clear that, on the basis of the same law, the buyer is obliged to allow authorised persons of the system operator to access the measuring devices, installations, as well as the location of the connection, for the purposes of reading, checking the correctness, removal of the faults, replacement, maintenance and control of the regularity of the measuring and other devices with measuring cabinets, editing of the measuring position and the suspension of electricity, and no one is slowing it. However, the question is, do controllers have the authority to enter other user rooms, outside of the measurement sites? In practice, there are numerous examples that such entrys into private households are available in hours after work hours, that there are cases that such controls have been carried out after 20 hours, as there are cases that such controls have been carried out in rooms outside of measurement places. In such cases, I find the law quite clear and explicit when it allows access to the authorised persons of the entrance system operator. He allows it only to measuring devices, but not to other rooms. Such unauthorized entrances to other people's rooms, outside the venues, without the court's written decision, create a dangerous precedent in the violation of human privacy and are a violation of constitutional and human rights – the inviolability of the apartment. The invulnerability of the apartment belongs to the domain of fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by Article 40 and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms by Article 8 as the right to respect for private and family life. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia explicitly states that the apartment is invulnerable, and entering another person's apartment, searching it, is strictly prohibited without a written decision by the court and contrary to the will of its holder. My question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia is – why do cases like this occur, precedents of dangerous violation of fundamental constitutional and human rights to the inviolability of the apartment, and will the government take steps to break such a practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14903	The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14904	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will use my time to ask two questions. The first question I ask the Ministry of Agriculture is local self-government. For the first time in decades, the local self-government has shown its readiness to solve the problem of cafilarium, which burdens a large number of Somboro citizens. The unpleasant smell that spreads through the city and the fear of the citizens of the city in which I live from the possible adverse consequences so far has been a taboo topic of every local government. This year, the frequency of this phenomenon is strengthened by the need for organic waste caused by the floods at the beginning of last year, but to all of us living in Somboro, it creates serious concerns about our health and the health of our children. In response to citizens, and with the support of the new local administration, the veterinary inspection has identified a number of irregularities and even proposed a suspension of this institution, which is kind of precedent, because this situation has been unsustainable for 30 years and perhaps several years back. Since this institution is under the authority of the Republic and is located in the territory of the city, whose representative I am, I am obliged to ask a question – when will this decades-old problem be solved? Legal regulations, as in many other cases, are clear here, but it's obviously not applicable. What are the reasons for that? Will the state, if it starts paying compensation to the people who sue the state for the Veterinary Institute “Proteinka”, pay perhaps more value than it would take to separate funds for the recovery or disposal of this institution? I repeat, this is a very important topic for the citizens of Somboro, and I think it's finally time to deal with it, because there's a chance of an ecological disaster, because since we have the latest information, confiscate or processed waste is even buried in the ground, and even beyond the borders of this company, more specifically in the fields, and we think it's an extremely big problem, not just for the citizens of Somboro, but for all those who brought this waste here. My second question is the Ministry of Finance, and it's about restitution. In January, the bond tender is due to start, but the state has no money. Realistically, after all this country's been through, it would be great if you had money for something like this. A decision has already been made on the prolonging of the same. The country has enough and all more corresponds to the country's substitutions than the bonds that have been split so far, which we won't be able to charge. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the DHSS headed by Vladan Batic have for years been giving a bill on how to resolve the problem, one of the greatest injustices in the past, for years. This, not only is the injustice of the past that burdens many and represents a communist legacy from which, not even today, we have not come out, but it is something that the EU also requires of us. It's really getting funny that from year to year, from generation to generation, from government to government, this problem is not being solved. I believe that the prime minister and the government will have the strength to solve this problem, and for which understanding did not have all the other governments so far. The main problem is the substitution, more specifically the change of laws in this small part, where all those seeking compensation would seek not financial compensation, but exclusively the replacement, whether in land, especially in land, because 94% of what is sought is agricultural land, forests and pastures. The solution to this law, as far as the substitution is concerned, is something that would benefit everyone, especially a state that does not have the financial means to repay in this way all those whose assets were taken away, on a number of grounds, after 1945, solely because they had it and because they thought otherwise. I believe that this government, if nothing else, will at least have the understanding to do one analysis that will show the truthfulness of everything we say, both the SPO, and the DHSS, but also all the associations that have been fighting for the return of property and I hope to finally resolve this agony that has lasted for 70, 80 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14905	Anybody else answer for a word? I don't have anyone on the board. The system doesn't work at all. The word has a folk MP, Aida Ćorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14906	I'm going to use my time today to set up a few questions concerning scandals that are being shaken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs these days, and I'd say all of Serbia. In fact, the public has been informed that some 120 organizations have gone to the competition, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has announced for NGOs, or civil society organisations, but we could see in that list that over 70% of the projects are given to organisations that are not at all social protection, 50% of the organisations do not meet the basic conditions of the competition. So there was a serious violation of the legislative procedure. Minister Vulin said he had no insight into the procedure, that he was not responsible for this condition. I ask the question, if it doesn't already have an impact on the allocation of funds, how can it suddenly have an impact and give itself the right to reroute those funds, which are located for civil society organisations, to the other side? Also, if the minister takes off responsibility for this scandal, then why doesn't he say who are members of that commission who really broke the ministry's work? Does the minister know that he did enormous damage, not only to NGOs he called and said they were used to getting money without doing anything, but to doing the most damage to the users of these programs, which are people with disabilities, children, old, vulnerable groups? In the end, does the minister consider, after all this, the least moral he can do is resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14907	Anybody else answer for a word? Please physically show, because the system isn't working. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14908	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, fellow MPs, today I refer my question to the Minister of Mining and Energy, and the question concerns the Public Enterprise "SouthEast" Nis. My question is: does this company have a building permit for a low voltage network in the territory of the municipality of Surdulica? Also, I'm asking to be given proof of the possession of a low-voltage network on the territory of the Surdulice municipality and how to acquire the same property? Namely, why am I asking this question? This public company has turned out to be a private company in Surdulica account -- for more, it says, occupied pillars according to a commission report and the account is at 15 and a half million. I am also asking all the people and all the MPs here, as well as you president of the Assembly, is it possible to charge some service in Serbia that has not been done? Also, what I'm saying is that they haven't proved any evidence to us in the Surdulic municipality that they own property, that they have a building permit, and they've blocked this company that employs 22 employees. This company in Surdulica also only has permission to broadcast radio programs, only has cable TV licenses and the internet. This same company blocked this account by a private company so that if we don't do anything, Surdulica and citizens of Surdulica will lose both radio and any media and no cable TV and no internet. I'm asking you to get this answer as soon as possible. Dear President...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14909	There's nothing I can do. The system doesn't work at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14910	Four months ago, I asked the same question, and to this day, I didn't get an answer. Please let me get this answer as soon as possible so we can protect a private company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14911	I've worked through all the questions that haven't been answered within my business time, and I'm going to work today, and I'm going to work on your questions. Who did you ask the question to?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14912	This was sent to the Ministry of Finance to the IRS then. Now I ask you to get this as soon as possible because the company is in a blockade so that it doesn't fire the workers and that we don't have problems and citizens of Surdulica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14913	It's a 15-day deadline for the Rules of Procedure. If you don't get an answer from the person you asked the question to, I'll urinate. It's my only option, I can't give an answer unless I'm authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14914	So, please, I'd like to ask as soon as possible. It's not a difficult question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14915	Anybody else answer for a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a few questions for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of the Interior. All of us have been struck and unpleasantly surprised by the news that the Russian side has given up the construction of the "South Stream". The project is important and important for Serbia. Important for investment itself, important for energy security, energy security, but also important for job creation. My question addressed to the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of the Interior is this, which is the responsibility of the Serbian party, or the main negotiators in the conclusion of the Energy Agreement, some of them are now our fellow Members here, the MPs, for an agreement that has been made and which has no clause? What are the obligations of the parties to the contract if one party is to give up the whole job? What were the conditions in 2007, 2008 when the agreement was made, when it was negotiated, when it was signed? Is the background political, is the background ignorance, are the interests? For this reason, I call on the Ministry of the Interior to, in accordance with their own interests, examine all the circumstances under which this agreement was made as well as those responsible by the government of Boris Tadic, the responsible people in the DS who then created life in Serbia, and to create such an agreement. The second question was also addressed to the interior minister, the finance minister and the justice ministry. We know the state of our public finances is extremely difficult. We know that this is the state of the product of bad, destructive decisions from the past. A clear definition of the government of the Republic of Serbia is seen to introduce the financial discipline of all beneficiaries of the budget. I support the precautionary agreement with the International Monetary Fund because it's money, and the contract itself says out of caution, not because we need it, but because of the things that can happen, don't God. However, this financial discipline does not apply everywhere. It does not apply to bodies established by the AP Vojvodina, such as the Development Fund, the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development. As a result, my question was addressed to the interior minister, whether the money was the fund and not small money, the Capital Investment Fund, because for 1306 projects, a total of 66 billion were allocated to 412 million 581 000 196 dinars, whether it was true that the money from the Vojvodine Capital Investment Fund, which was intended to build facilities for the needs of local self-government, was paid to companies from Novi Sad, according to established invoices, followed by different simulated businesses through business companies which, through business documentation, appeared as subcontractors, used opposite purposes, whereby representatives of the Capital Investment Fund, local self-government and responsible persons in those companies, provided themselves with anti-law property benefits. These funds are not small, these funds could not disappear without political support from people who have been running the AP for 12 or 14 years, which is DS and Bojan Pajtic with 6% of the votes. That's not all. The Science and Technological Development Secretariat covers 114 legal entities, out of which, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, 55 have been identified as controversial and suspicious claims of 15m euros, as well as through the Development Fund, where of the 1059 projects financed, the total amount of 11m euros is disputed. On behalf of citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, I ask how did 88m euros from these funds and one secretariat go missing? The responsibility of the people who run the AP, the responsibility of Bojan Pajtic, Dusan Elezovic and those without whom no euro could be paid and handed over to these companies?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14917	Thank you. There's no need to warn me on time. I lead on foot, MPs Karavidic. There's no need to get upset, I'm on foot. You're the only one I've made a mistake with, and you've got two, three minutes more. It happens. I have to do it because of system failure and the IT sector is looking for a break to reset everything. We can't vote at all. I'm setting a ten-minute break to establish the system. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 136 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Milan Korać, Dubravka Filipovski, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Vladeta Kostic, Miodrag Nikolic, Sasa Maksimović, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the need to consider proposals for acts from the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Prior to the establishment of the agenda pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need to decide on proposals for the putting on the agenda of emergency acts, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on road transport of passengers and things, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 151 MPs, of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 19 MPs proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Freedom of Fear Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 153 MPs, of the total of 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The SNS parliamentary group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 21 November 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, no one, with abstentions, voted 19 MPs, of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (The Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 21 November 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, not by 17 MPs, of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government has proposed to put the draft law on confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty (Project – Switching from analog to digital signal) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 21 November 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 19 MPs, of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government has proposed putting on the agenda an emergency procedure draft decision on public competition rules for selecting candidates for members of the programme council of the public media institution "Radio-Television of Serbia" which submitted to the National Assembly on 25 November 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, v – two abstentions – there are no, 17 MPs did not vote, out of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's board, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 November 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 155, no one, with abstentions, voted 21 MPs, out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly, proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 20 MPs, out of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 December 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 23 MPs, of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 October 2014. Does MP Dusan Milisavljevic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14919	Honored presidents, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, this proposal complements the Criminal Code was made with citizens who had a problem, who had children who suffered some kind of sexual violence. With this bill of law, I am trying to open up one topic in Serbia that is present, which is child abuse and a proposal to introduce medical treatment against paedophiles because it is a problem that exists in Europe and a problem where every fifth child, roughly according to European statistics, has suffered some kind of sexual violence. The problem with paedophiles is a big problem that disturbs our public and we need to take the problem very seriously. Pedophiles are sick people, and just closing pedophiles isn't a solution that would help when they get out of prison be safe on our streets and be our children safe from such people. I suggest the introduction of androgenic blockades and the introduction of psychiatric treatment for these persons, as well as the tightening of penalties for these persons. The Council of Europe recognized this problem of paedophilism and in 2007 brought the Charter of Sexual Child Abuse, we signed it as a state in 2011. This is one of the attempts to treat paedophile in our blood law in a slightly different way, as far as sanctions are concerned, a more severe way, and as far as medical treatment is concerned, in one way, that these persons are disabled to commit the same crimes during a subsequent period of time when they get out of prison. My dears, I'd like to inform you that 90% of pedophile is a returnee in sexual child abuse. When they get out of prison, they are even more disturbed persons and much closer to the possibility of committing the same crime against children again. The point is, I'm not saying that the bill that I'm proposing is the best solution. I just wanted to open a debate in the Serbian Parliament, let's say -- let's find a maybe better solution than Dusan Milisavljevic suggested, let's find a solution to protect our children on the streets. If it's not the medical treatment I'm proposing, the so-called medical castration of paedophiles, the solution, let's find a solution. Let's increase their sentence to 40 years, because these people are doing the same crime again. Look back 20 years, in Serbia all cases of pedophile are returned. Our law is very mild. I want to fight for the rights of a child, not for the human rights of a pedophile. The right of the child is stronger, brighter, better, and as a doctor, I'm defending him in this home. I want to tell you that this is the beginning of a persistent debate on this subject. Citizens' support exists and we just need to see if it could be adopted by Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, if it has an agreement and an opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14920	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2014. Does the MP, Professor Dusan Milisavljevic, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14921	In this proposal to amend the Criminal Code, I propose that one discrimination that exists in the Criminal Law for HIV patients be corrected. I want to inform you that I have worked with the National Association of People with HIV, the National Association of Patients, who suggested that they were still discriminated against as patients, as a person, and that another person had an error, in some years earlier when the Criminal Code was written, and then that famous member was 250. The criminal code specifically removed a group of diseases, i.e. patients who have HIV to treat them specifically in Article 250 and all other chronic infectious diseases, such as hepatitis B, hepatitis C and other chronic diseases, were singled out in Article 249. They asked – if we are already discriminated against, if there is still one taboo of AIDS and AIDS patients, why should we also have to be treated in the Criminal Code? I must tell you that I also took advantage of the opportunity with the Minister of Justice to discuss this subject and he is prepared to find some solution that HIV patients are not particularly treated with a member of the Criminal Code and that this is the case for discrimination against them and their illnesses. I don't suppose we're going to put this proposal on the agenda today, but I wanted to show you that even through the law, these patients are being discriminated against, that on December 1st, we all celebrated the International Day of HIV, that was only three days ago, and that today, December 4th, we are talking about this subject again, and I hope that in the near future, it will be a good will for their rights to be regulated in a legal manner and that in the Criminal Code all chronic infectious diseases are treated through one member, and not that HIV suffers as a special disease that is so dangerous. As a doctor, I'll tell you that hepatitis C and hepatitis B may even be more dangerous than now the HIV virus, so let's treat all chronic infectious diseases with one Criminal Code, and so can Article 249. This will end, and I hope that in a recent period we will have a chance to satisfy and correct the injustice that has been done to HIV sufferers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14922	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. Do the MPs want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14923	As the Serbian public knows, and also MPs, Parliamentarian Pavicevic and I on 26 September this year gave the bill on amending the Law on Higher Education, because we promised the minister of education that we would help him express, but also the essence of something called "academic honesty", to bring it into the existing law. At the session where the amendments to the law were said that for procedural reasons, he was unable to propose it, but to agree with the idea. Academic honesty should be a preventive and curative tool against high-school crime, against plagiarism crime, whether it be diplomats, whether it be doctoral titles. This is due to a series of plagiarists that marked the arrival of a new government in the country, from the interior minister via Belgrade Mayor, the president of the state, the president of some municipalities and many others whose degrees and whose names are mildly suspicious, and for many of them it has all been proven. For the fourth time, we suggest that it be placed on the agenda, and there is no reason, unless someone wants to be an accomplice to that crime, to reject our proposal. It is very simple, the amendment of four members of the Law, very easily understood, everyone can read and understand them, only they should have a desire to end this bad phenomenon which, of course, did not begin this year, did not begin with this power, but was given its widest application just this year at the peaks of the current government. Of course someone's gonna say it's not the worst thing that can happen to us. Of course someone can say that laws should be amended to prevent the abuse of Minister Alexander Vulin, who wanted to share twom euros with his party members.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14924	Please explain the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14925	I'm discussing the bill, and I'm showing the need for urgency.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14926	There's no such thing as a subject in your proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14927	Of course, there should also be laws that will prevent the government's presidents from betting around and around parliament and then not being responsible for what they're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14928	Ambassador, you can only explain your bill. I understand your need to spread the subject, but it's not allowed by the Rules of Procedure. If you want more legal provisions to explain, you still have time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14929	President, I congratulate you on the fact that after an hour you managed to fix the system, but only this system, by electronic means, and how the MP explains the law, and that it is not against the law, someone else, or morals, it is my right to freedom. You can't teach me how to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14930	I can.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14931	Can you teach me?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14932	I can get the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14933	Then you have to get a license and make sure that license is not plagiarized.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14934	I have a license for that. I have over 200 votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14935	And that's a license?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14936	Yes, it is, it's a license in democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14937	That's how you get your diplomas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14938	Dear Members of the People, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Third Belgrade High School who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. Please welcome them. I'm voting on a proposal from the MPs. I conclude the vote and declare: for -15, the two, the abstentioned, did not vote 160 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov, based on Articles 92, 2nd and 4th and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the National Education Council, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society on 26 June 2014. Does the People's Parliament want a word? He's not here. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) of Article 157(2) of Articles 170 and 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: - a joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A Project of Emergency Flood Rehabilitation) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee (The Project – The Transition of the analogy to the Digital Signal) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Convention on the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Holy See in the Area of Higher Education; - a Common Single Search on: The Proposal for a Decision on the Implementation of Public Competition on the Selection of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Public Council of the Public Council of Serbia, the Radio-Television of Serbia, which has submitted a group of 13 People's MPs, a decision on amendments to amending the Republic of the Republic's and the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, sent a set out to the Republic's key decisions to the Republic's amendments to the Republic's drafts draft resolution, the Republic, the Republic, the drafts drafts drafts draft resolution of Serbia's amendments to the Republic, the Republic, the drafts of Serbia's drafts drafts, the Republic of Serbia's resolutions, the Republics, the drafts, the drafts, the drafts of Serbia's, the Republic of Serbia's resolutions, the drafts of Serbia's of Serbia's, the Republic of Serbia's. Does the MP, Professor Marko Atlagic, want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – 10 abstentions, 15 of the 182 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for the completion of the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, the two, the abstentioned, did not vote 24 out of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, established the agenda of the 9th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, in general. I ask the service of the National Assembly to make up a consolidated text of the agenda of the session and deliver it to the MPs. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction; 2. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Emergency Flood Recovery Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty (Project – Switching from analog to digital signal) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the European Convention on the Protection of Audiovisual Heritage; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Holy See in the area of higher education; 6. Proposal for a decision on rules on the implementation of a public competition for the selection of candidates for members of the Programme Council of the Public Media Institute "Radio-Television of Serbia"; 7. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 8. Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Board of Governors of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia; 9. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions; 10. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Education Council. We move to work according to established agenda points. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Prof. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Aleksandra Damnjanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and Dejan Trifunović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. The first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of Planning and Construction Laws – you have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does Professor Zorana Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14939	Thank you. Dear Presidents, Vice-Presidents, MPs, dear high school students, you are facing today's proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Planning and Construction. It is a very important law for the whole reform process that the Serbian government has been implementing for the past half of the year. Very important because of the attempt to improve the conditions of business through this law, i.e. to ensure that all those who want to work and build in Serbia can do so in a transparent, clear, transparent way, organised way, in a way that will not take away their time and money, because the practice so far, and the current law has put Serbia in a position to wait for a construction permit alone for an average of around 240 days. Not to mention there have been cases where construction permits have been waiting for five to seven years. So, unresolved property relations, intertwining the jurisdiction of local self-government, various institutions and republican authorities led investors to go from one counter to another, from one institution to another, to lose money, because all they did was normally waste both time and money, and in the end they brought Serbia into a situation, i.e. such legal regulations, led Serbia to the situation that today we can say that, unfortunately, we have 1.5 million illegally built objects, that we have absolutely certain losses in investment, which can be measured by billions of euros because investors simply lost hope and the possibility of working and investing in Serbia, because the conditions were simply not allowed to even get construction permits. For example, there were no specific plans in certain local self-governments. Furthermore, what is particularly devastating for all of us is that in previous years such existing legal regulations have led to a situation that we can say that construction is almost on the lowest branches, and on the other hand it is one of the most significant resors in this country. I'll just give you a few details. According to the information provided by the Republic Statistics Institute in September 2014, 672 apartments and 2009 and 2010, but first in 2009, the number was 19,000. I'll let you know that in the last four years, the number of building permits has decreased by 30%. Also, the total works carried out in construction are 189 billion dinars, while the accumulated losses in construction are 231 billion. So the losses are higher than the derived values of 42 billion. Not to mention that the annual decline in what is called the contracted, or contracted work averages by 7% to 9%. Therefore, one of the serious reasons why it is is precisely the existing legal procedure. In the course of today's debate in principle, I'm going to explain what's in place, and what exactly we put in front of you today, and we want to change. What I think is significant, this law should bring us transparency, clear criteria, should bring one single procedure, that the investor be that physical person or economic entity, domestic or foreign, when he wants to do something, build in Serbia, comes on one counter. That counter is located in every local self-government. We are already starting to train local self-government in this sense, and on this one counter, it gets information from people, if it needs information, if it has some information on what it wants to do, it brings an idea solution, and the competent authority is still working on it. The competent authority shall go from the institution to the institution within 15 days and prepare all the documentation necessary and which it has so far practically done, or requested, and I have come to the investor myself. After that, a potential investor prepares his project for a building permit and within five days he gets it after the site is issued, so in sum, it is 28 days. So someone doesn't say it's even possible, and if it's even possible for the law to be implemented, because one thing is the law, and one thing is, after that, reality. We all know that after a lot of situations to be made, and that very often partially or not fully applied, then I'm going to tell you that with this law there is already a part of the sublegal act being prepared, that the training of local self-government begins, that this law also provides for a completely different view of responsibility. First, strengthening inspection services, we can talk about this because I have the impression that during the previous inspection period, the inspection services have been deliberately destroyed because only seven construction inspectors are working in Serbia today, seven construction inspectors exist, republican, for the entire territory of Serbia, which is, you must admit, simply amazing. Therefore, strengthening the inspection service and, above all, taking responsibility for those entities who do not do what is right. This means that criminal charges will be filed against officials, or officials, on counters, unless they do their job, as well as criminal charges against those institutions, institutions or public undertakings which do not issue certificates that they have to give. And also, by this law, we seem to have made one step, which is that there is an early public insight into the plans, which I think is very important, because at the very beginning we can see all the suggestions and all the remarks and make better plans at the very beginning. And what's the point? And why, in addition to course, the transparency of clear criteria? We need this law as systemically, as a law that should allow us to open up space for real construction in Serbia and not to talk about administration and bureaucracy holding down investment. I hope so, and I expect an open debate. We're here to make the law, if we can, improve. What I also want you to know is that this law, I would say, is perhaps the longest I have been in public debate compared to all other public laws, since July this law has been in public debate. Public debates have been held all over Serbia. The law is presented in one of its drafts and MPs of the resolution committee in parliament. I would say that there was really enough space and time and all the suggestions that existed, we really put all the suggestions or most suggestions into this law. Of course we tried to keep up with all the standards and all the directives that await us, which we must follow, which we must respect. We also really talk to everyone, of the Chamber of Commerce, of Engineering, of the American Chamber of Commerce, of all representatives and NAED, therefore, of all relevant, of course form of foreign investors, therefore, of all relevant entities that could say their own experience and how to make this law as best as possible. Of course I don't think this law is ideal. What will certainly emerge in the coming period will be an analysis of the effect of future conversion, and we will have a special law for conversion next year. There is an interest in the profession that requires that this law, after a period of time, be applied, that this law is already practically divided into two or three laws in a consistent manner, in the sense that there is a law on construction, a law only on permits and a law on conversion. We'll talk about it with the profession, because I think it's the profession that needs to give us a base for everything else. The Serbian government's plan is that next year, by the end of next year, Serbia has an electronic building permit. So, if some other countries can do it, there is no reason that Serbia does not have it and in that sense we do not create another environment for investors. Thank you and I wish you a successful debate today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14940	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The first one was applied for by Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14941	The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us the Law on Planning and Construction, and I will try to state the views of the SVM MPs on this law. As we heard from the minister, a long public debate was held on this subject. In all our great cities of our country was held, it was also held in Subotica. So I can say that it wasn't just the sabbaticals at that debate, but the entire North-Bachvanian district, so the cities or representatives of the cities of Kikinda, Somboro, Kanjija, the Serbs, and I'm not counting any further. We as SVM have held a round table on this topic or this law where we have asked experts from this area of construction, but not only construction engineers, but also lawyers, and urbanists, and projectors from the design houses, we have listened to their opinion and their suggestions. As for the opinion that we have two major problems in the current law, which is the length of waiting on building permits, as the minister said, and the second one is quite the amount of compensation for the urban-building land. In addition, there have been many questions about the topic of conversion, but as we have heard this topic will be done under a special law. As we heard from the minister, unfortunately, in our country, the length of waiting for a building permit is about 240 days. I can confirm that myself, because right now in my area I adapt the family house and I wanted to introduce or join the water line there in Sainta, in my city, it's about 25 meters long of this water line. Since we have microsystems, I'd move on to the city system. To dig up the plumbing and connect the house to the city water line, it took me about a hundred or 115 days. So, I wrote applications for public enterprises, four public enterprises, to get the so-called. The underground water cadastre and their waterways on that street. Then when I got all this evidence, then I had to go to the county with a request to let me dig up the green surface. It's only after that at a public company to do me or to set a course. That took about 115 days. I want to tell you that I worked at one of the largest banks in Sainta, I was the director, besides that and the president of the municipality, so I know everyone, every public firm director and administrative worker, but they did the job by law. So nothing was done without the law, but it took 115 days. I want to say that when I heard that we were going to have a new construction law, I said – thank God, because if an investor came to us in an investment park, how long would it take him to get all his permits to start work. That is why we, unfortunately because of these situations in this shameful 186 place of 189 place, are on the World Bank's public list of global economies in terms of the length of waiting for a building permit to be issued. We sincerely hope that this law will bring about improvement in this topic, as the minister said that from now on we will wait 28 days for building permits. This law stipulates that local conditions are granted to investors, or who wants to build, in 20 days, a building permit in five days, and using a permit in five days. The deadlines are set here and they refer to the time it takes for the authority, meaning the local self-government authority, to issue these necessary acts at the request of the party, from the location conditions to the applicable authorisation. In this law, as we know, or the law that is applicable, the registration of property rights has been made in about 45 days, perhaps more. So, according to the law, it's 45 days, but according to this new law, time is reduced to 15 days, which is positive. If we look at it that way, from 240 days, how do we get to 28 days? It may seem like a dream, but I think we should dream and do these dreams, sooner or later, the better. Because if we're going to do 28 days, then we're going to be in front of Macedonia, where I think 30 days should be issued, and they've introduced an electronic building permit, as the minister said they'll be with us in a year or a few days. The SVM MPs will vote in favour of this law, because we think that with this law, this problem will be solved as soon as possible by investors and those who want to build a building permit. That's one of the important reasons we're going to vote for this law. We think the sublegal solution is good, which is what this law predicts. a united procedure for the process of issuing all necessary acts in the construction process. Unfortunately, as I was saying in my case, and that these acts we've been looking for, or which investors are looking for from public enterprises, it's taken a long time and this has cost them a lot. Like I said, the bigger the problem is the compensation for the construction land. I don't think it's even a fee, it's a particular investor tax, because if someone wants to build it, they have to pay the fee, and that's a lot of money. Unfortunately, in practice so far, there was no limit to the amount of this fee, and then this law provides to limit this amount of compensation to 10% of the average price of a square metre of new construction, in the local self-government unit. So we're reducing the amount of compensation, but we're reducing the range between the lowest and the highest price per square meter, and so far it's one to 40, if it's true, and then here we're going to decrease to one to six. So the fee must continue to be paid, but there are exceptions. The fee should not be paid by those who build infrastructure facilities, manufacturing facilities and storage facilities. This will certainly have a positive impact on the construction of our entire country, but it will also reduce the revenues of local self-government. We have to give something, so we can get something. I think it's one real price of compensation. The same will affect the income of local self-government, but it's more important for us to encourage the building, because it fell to a low branch. There are several more positive examples in this law, which we think is good, which is to continue to improve the way energy efficiency in construction, because by establishing a budget fund for energy efficiency, we can make it possible for citizens who have energy inefficient buildings, those that were built 20 or 30 years ago, citizens as investors can, under favourable conditions, execute energy recovery of their buildings. I think it's a positive thing, and we should all take this opportunity, if that's really going to be the case. In addition, we think it is still positive that improving the provisions on technical standards for accessibility of the building, public and business purposes is possible for all users, and I would point out here, especially for persons with disabilities, children and older people, a smooth approach to movement and stay in those facilities. As we have said, this law will bring us a lot of positive things in speeding up the process and issuing building permits, and especially to reduce both the fee or the land tax. With this law, we will improve the economic environment for new investors to come to our country and build, as we will increase the participation of construction in GDP. So, so far, it's been so easy to pass the law, but unfortunately, we haven't applied it in practice. We hope, as Mrs. Minister said, that we have already prepared sublaws and that the inspectors will do their job, that this law will come to life and that construction will come to the place that belongs to society. As far as the new law on conversion is concerned, we will do so, and because of all these positive things, SVM MPs will vote for this law in question.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14942	The word is Hope Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14943	Dear President, I would now suggest that the president press the bell and that most in this House vote immediately and avoid the idea of respecting this House and us as MPs. Namely, why do I say that? We got this document straight 48 hours ago, to read, to make remarks, it has 270 pages of extensive text, which has many changes, endings, and some members have been completely changed, some have been recompensated, and this requires a more detailed and professional review, and we simply haven't had time for that. It's a first and a basic remark, but what's there is, because I as one normal person will not suggest, nor would it be according to the Rules of Procedure. The Association of Construction Engineers, I came across their opinion, says that in the last 25 years, every building minister has passed his law on planning and construction and he is normally said to have been worse than the previous one. Whether this one will also have such a pillar, this practice will show and there have also been objections, he says – since major changes have been made in the basic law, the question is why the new law has not been joined and the answer is very interesting, that is, the reasoning that stands with this text of the law. He says – the reason why the new law was not approached is that the procedures would be slowed down while the state authorities look at all the new solutions in the law, which would mean that it doesn't matter what other resolutions have to say about this law and what they would have as observations or some of their views, because they were in a hurry to pass this law. I just want to look back at, to comment practically, this proposal of the law from the corner, is the reason for its adoption, the impact on the environment. In this document, i.e. the argument is that the relationship to other laws is clearly defined, so that I do not now order all the laws mentioned by the Law on Public Property, on privatisation, on the state diameter, the cataster, etc. is not mentioned, unfortunately, the Law on the Protection of the Environment, does not specify, which defines the use of space in Article 19, where it says that the development plan establishes construction zones in certain locations, depending on the capacity of the environment and the degree of burden, as well as the building objectives within certain parts of those locations. So, an important aspect of environmental protection when it comes to space and what kind of activity is being carried out in that space. It should also be noted that the environmental impact assessment is an integral part of the technical documentation without which it is practically not accessible to the implementation of the project and is carried out in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the specific law. Given the speed of adoption, so to speak, the speed of getting all the papers, the question is how will be implemented according to what is defined when it comes to specific laws in the field of environmental protection. Then the reason for the adoption of this law is that the problem of legal practice, i.e. the application of the law and the fact that some applicable specific laws significantly complicate the issue of building permits, is that here we have had the opportunity to hear as examples, the Proposer believes that, if, within the shortest time period, the amendments to these laws, the system set up by this law can be compromised and that this problem would be exceeded, to amend the specific laws and their alignment with the provisions of this law, the Proposer has prescribed in the transitional provisions that the provisions of other laws will not be applied in the procedures laid down by this law, if they are contrary to the provisions of this law. What I'm asking as a question and as I interpret this approach, this can mean if, because of the interest of investors, the conditions of the environmental law are an obstacle to its arrival, they will not apply until they change in such a way as to suit it or otherwise. I will note that there are a whole list of regulations that apply to environmental protection and make them around a hundred documents, about 50 strategic and 55 laws. Many things have been defined through these strategic documents, the need for respect for sustainable development has been defined, the need for respect for environmental protection, protection and exploitation of resources, etc. I am afraid that the practice will repeat that the aspect of environmental protection is being put into another plan, and unfortunately, we are witnessing when strategies are being adopted or when we adopt international conventions and show to Europe how we are ecologically aware, how we care about environmental protection, very easily we accept and promise, and unfortunately we have very bad examples in practice. I'm just going to say Article 209. A environmental law defining 11 principles of protection. One of these principles is the principle of responsibility for environmental damage, Article 105 is defined, which says that the polluter is required to provide financial or other types of guarantees for the provision of compensation for damages to the environment and space in the course and after carrying out activities. Unfortunately, we have examples that such a thing has not been respected, such as the Stolic Mine and many other examples. From all of this, or as far as I could see and look at this law, it emerges, and here it is emphasized, to satisfy the wishes, or investors, because we, the fact is, they need them. However, the consequences of such an approach may be that industrial facilities will be built that will introduce dirty technologies, and opportunities exist, that environmental protection will be ignored and that unfortunately pollution will remain with us no matter how long the investor stays with us. Unfortunately, we also have examples of old industrial objects still standing as pyramids that practically buried the old pollution we'll have to deal with at that time. I will give an example, in light of this kind of thinking, or approach, of what conditions we will give to a German investor who is mentioned in the media these days, who wants to open the largest pig farm in the Balkans of 1.5 million pigs, is said in this text that we had the opportunity to see, i.e. what will it do with the barn and will it be subject to environmental protection rules as applied in its dominant country, or in Germany where it must respect the nitrate directive? Unfortunately, we have not yet adopted this document, but this is the accession process, which is the pollution of the environment with farms and slaughterhouses, i.e. the burden of nitrogen, a very important and very demanding directive, whether in this case, because it is a huge capacity to apply this regulation and see again everything from the media that this gentleman is looking for a place where he will set up that farm. I can only assume that she will be installed somewhere in Vojvodina. Another example, an investor from Turkey who wants to produce pellets in Sapac, wooden thresholds for railways and palettes, because he says it wants to expand business in Romania where, according to some of the videos of environmentalists, Karpati was well cut, says in Serbia they found raw materials, and Sabac has a great position compared to the forests in Bosnia, Vojvodina and Croatia. To the mention of Vojvodina and the forest, as Vojvodina has forests, it is immediately bad for me because Vojvodina has no forest to burn, because it has the tiniest noise in Europe, it has 6% under the forests, and the European minimum is 14% and where is the ecological approach in all of this? What about investors already operating in Serbia, as is the case, the latest example of Energygreen in India, where the investor invested 21m euros and now we hear that he wants to go, normally, all the information from the media and I'm not getting into the details, what is in such a case, or with such investors? In fact, these are all examples that confirm that there is a need for an inter-minister body at the level of the government to coordinate economic development plans with environmental constraints and conflicts. This is something that is a demanding practice in all other countries, not just us and all the countries that are in the accession process or those that are already members. Also, I want to refer to the question of compensation. Namely, the land settlement fee, which is said to have been marked as unnecessary for a long time, even harmful to the intended investors, represents only one part of what is the nominal cost of the infrastructure, and another one-time payment of the capitalised rent, i.e. land prices. It is said that before the crisis began, almost 50% was a higher fee. The fact is that local self-government has a problem financing municipal equipment because one of the revenues they have was this fee. Whether it is properly used or not, it is another story, but the fact that municipal infrastructure, such as water equipment, sewerage, roads and all other details and treatment of waste water, is one of the preconditions for the arrival of serious investors. Here's the question of what should go first and what should go second. Unfortunately, here and in reason, it is said that there will be one amount of money left to local self-government, but it is said in the explanation that local self-government, already known in advance, will have losses and should bear in mind that the acceleration of economic activity, the reduction of illegal construction thanks to the reform of the authorisation process, will significantly increase the municipality's revenues. In other words, municipalities should be satisfied that they will now be less satisfied in order to have more in the future. I don't just know what resources they're going to invest in and build infrastructure to bring in serious investors, and then have one driving force to develop their local environments? In fact, this approach to changing the law, to satisfy the economic aspect, or to bring investors, I can understand, but I can't understand at all costs, because they can do more damage, I'm afraid, but it's useful. The Social Democratic League Group of Vojvodina has given amendments to improve the proposal for this text as far as possible, and in the voting day we will vote depending on whether our amendments will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14944	Thank you. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14945	Thank you very much. I would not say that this law is an emergency procedure and that this is how it was put into parliament. As I said, this is the only law that's been in public debate since July, and it's so important, and it's so systematic that I believe that you and as a messenger have been familiar with it, because I assume, in relation to this discussion you're giving right now, that's what you're interested in. I'll tell you that when you passed the Association of Construction Engineers, we talked to everyone and they all delivered their opinions. If you're already saying what the Construction Engineers' Association has written on its website, then you have to speak from beginning to end. So they're not criticizing this bill. They criticise some of the previous ministers, and I can name them, such as Dulic and Dulic's law. One of the basic reasons for the destruction of construction is this law, when you're talking about this association. We spoke with the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, the Association of Architects, the Association of Construction Engineers, the Engineering Chamber, the Association of Architects, the business chambers from the environment, the Council of Foreign Investors, all public companies, means, with all public enterprises, local self-government and embassy representatives. But what you didn't say, which I think is even more important, and it's not right because it represents some kind of deception, when you're talking, is the story of the environment. So if you've already read a member of the law and if you've read it, then I think you should read it whole, so when we talk about other sectoral laws, yes, it will apply until it changes this law, except in two situations, which is in the protection of the environment and in the protection of fire. This article that you have read, and you have not read the last part of that article, part of the sentence you have not read, is very important, because on this you base and base your entire discussion, and it reads: “The provisions of other laws that regulate the issues that are subject to the regulation of this law will not be applied except to the laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment. “ So you’re wrong when you say that this is the case, that no one will take care of the environment and that after that we will take the investors and let such things happen in the environment, even giving certain examples. You know that strategic impact assessment is part of the plan's documents, that it can't be done without it and that an additional strategy must be done, or an impact assessment study. When you mention a potential investor and about a farm, you'll have to have both of these documents. If these documents satisfy everything that is necessary under the law, then they will be able to build, or that there are such types of investments. The other thing you mentioned is compensation, or now it's a contribution. The fee was a parafiscal imposition. The fact is that local self-government had unusual relations and that they really tried to have an additional source of funding through compensation. If you allow and if you allow investors to exist in your local self-government and that those who get permission faster and build, that means that you will hire new people, that means that your income, or your municipality, will receive additional income. That means you'll grow faster. Therefore, it is not a shame that it is reduced in the sense that there will be no compensation, but it will be a contribution and it is precisely determined that local self-government will be the one to determine those six zones and also what will be determined, and that is the maximum amount of such a type of contribution, just to help move capital faster, so to speak, that is to say, that the more investors are in local self-government. That was the reason, and I hope you understand that now. As far as Braunfield's investment is concerned, this law just allows it. So this law allows it. We'll take a look at the amendments. Anything that can help the law we will accept. Of course, it applies to all MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14946	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has a national emissary, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14947	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, your cabinet and ministry members, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would at first, and before the law is analysed, it may be a little awkward now that I have to say something that the minister has just said, I would like to commend and mention some of the procedures that preceded this law. We are indeed witnessing numerous public debates, round tables, presentations. Also, it was extremely useful to present one of the drafts of this law to the MPs on the Committee of Representatives. I think he's been consulted by the NGO, which is the international investor association in the country, and I think it must have affected and resulted in the quality of this law. On the other hand, the material we have received under this law is unusually large. It is rich in statistics, analysis of the economic, economic environment, the country's business environment. The interpretation is extremely complex, complex. Every member of the law is justified. There are also reasons to propose certain members of the law, and I think it's a pretty good practice, and we'd like to get such laws from other ministers. The law itself is ambitious. Change is root, I can say revolutionary. The law won't leave anyone indifferent. He'll probably come across a bigger approval. I think they'll have their own enemies for sure. As far as I'm concerned, as an architect, I expect good results in the application of this law. The most important thing is what citizens expect from this law. Citizens expect simple procedures for obtaining permits for their construction, adaptations and upgrades when they build for themselves, want protection from fraud against investors who do not pay land, and then cannot book their land. Citizens want the electronics administration for the availability of information and desire, most importantly, the untapped administration. What do investors expect from this law? Investors expect shorter licenses, they expect a single counter, electronic administration, and they expect an untapped administration. What does the state expect from this law? The state expects new investors, the revitalisation of construction and the development of linked business branches. The state expects more order and responsibility in the administration. We've got a brave law that's dealt with a number of problems and a law that will respond to most of these assigned tasks. What's new about this law? This law adopts newspapers such as united procedures, a single counter, electronic data exchange, short deadlines, and brings transparency of procedures and, most importantly, a hierarchy of responsibility. What does a united procedure mean? The definition of a united procedure is, in fact, through a member of the law which says: the competent authority is obliged to obtain all acts, conditions and other documents issued by public authority holders on behalf of both the official duty and the investor's account, and the conditions are for the implementation of the united procedure. What does this mean in practice? Right now, a very long way to use permission and immigration. We're starting with location conditions, terms of community service, and we know that sometimes there's over 20, building permits, application papers, and a useful permit. A new law provides for a single counter. On that counter, citizens and investors submit requests for all procedures, and the competent authority shall, under its official duty, obtain all conditions and data from public and municipal enterprises. What else does that have to do with it? Unworthy line-by-line waiting is lifted, individual corruption is reduced, and the coordination of procedures is done by the competent authority. The law also introduces an electronic data exchange, which positively has a modern, efficient way of working the administration. What are the problems, it seems to me, is that this documentation is too large because of the different programming languages, formats. I think the problem, too, is that the digitization of the catastra has not been completed. The plans, unfortunately, are valid, and partly in analogue format, which turns them into some PDF formats and all of this will result in the need for a completely new technological, technical equipment of local administration. What do short deadlines mean? The law defines a shortening procedure as follows. Within five days, the competent authority shall submit a request for the issue of individual conditions and public authority holders, of course, those are municipal enterprises, public undertakings, relevant services. Public authorities shall issue conditions within 15 days, in some special cases for 30 days. Otherwise, this is also very important, the competent authority stops the procedure, it is not good that it stops, but it is good that it informs the investor and submits a request for an infringement procedure. So there's a sanctioning of part of the administration and unconsciousness. This means that when a local administration authority makes a request for a release, municipal services have 15 days to deliver those conditions. After that, the competent authority shall issue local conditions within five days of the date of receipt of all these conditions. The building permit shall be issued within five days of the date of the application for authorisation, confirming the application of the works without delay and the use of the authorisation also within five days of the submission of the applications. This is where the motion sanctions the delay. It just seems to me that maybe we should sanction the inaccessibility of the data issued. In practice, we met and now, when we didn't have the pressure, the penalties of an unfulfilled time obligation, we had mistakes in the data release. When we press someone for a short period of time to carry out the issue obligation within a short and certain time frame, it can either be missing information to forget somewhere, to actually get unquality documentation. What's new about this law, too? This is the transparency of the procedure, so, through digitisation, through electronic guidance of all procedures and publicly available databases. It is very important that a copy of the building permit is given automatically to the competent inspector, the building inspector, which makes this procedure even more transparent. As far as I'm concerned, there is a problem with the burden of the Agency for Business Registers, which is now being given jurisdiction to run the central register. This agency, I totally understand why this procedure is being located, because it's actually the only agency in the country that can monitor this procedure. She's extremely well-organized. She's currently running 20 registers. This is going to be 21. In that sense, I'm just saying this to keep an eye on how to improve their work. They need to be further technologically equipped, because I have the impression that the technique that needs to support this procedure will be consistent with NASA's technique. Also, I think we need extra personnel to equip them. The law establishes, in my opinion, perhaps the most important segment, which is the hierarchy of responsibility. The registerer of the central records, located at the Agency for Economic Registers, directly corresponds to the Minister and Government. The registerer of a united procedure at the level of the local administration shall correspond to the management of the competent administration. The registrar shall submit a criminal complaint against the responsible persons if they do not comply with this law during the conduct of the joint procedure. A very precise hierarchy of responsibility. What might be debatable and what I might wish was different is the authority of the competent authority. Under the scope of authority, I don't think they have too many. On the contrary, I think they have too little. The law says – during the conduct of a united procedure, the competent authority shall only verify the fulfilment of the formal conditions for construction and shall not be subject to an assessment of the technical documentation. This further means that the competent authority is in control of the form, the formal conditions, but does not exercise control of technical correctness. All responsibility, by law, is on the responsible licensed designer, of an engineer who also carries out technical controls on the investor. Their responsibility is absolutely not questionable, it is not disputed, it exists under the applicable law and I am not questioning it. I think that in order to protect the public interest, a certain degree of control of the technical correctness of the documentation is necessary, I underline, too, in order to protect public interests. Sometimes, something that is technically and properly endangers someone's public interest, neighbors, neighbors, and I don't list individual problems. A reduced procedure under which the competent authority does not exercise technical control, but merely the correctness of technical conditions, is a practice in countries of far more developed professional and personal responsibility. I think it can be by this formulation or abuse or perhaps errors of ignorance, which is equally harmful. We are witnessing the hyperproduction of diplomas, not in some negative sense. I think the diploma has a lot, but a little bit is being built and these graduate engineers have relatively little experience and can make serious mistakes from that inexperience. It doesn't always have to be in the middle of some evil intention, corruption. My next dilemma and question is, why is the law obliging the content of urban projects? I asked the Secretary of State today and on the Committee of Resolution. I got the answer. We had in the previous draft legislation a variant that other urban plans were without a tax on the scope. I see it was returned with some supplements, which I think is extremely good, too. Since I was a member of the planning commission, both Belgrade and the interior, I know that standards are completely different. I think it's always much better when the procedure is prescribed, the procedure in this case, the extent of the documentation, when it's written through the law, than when it's left to the sublaw. Of course, and he's binding, he doesn't have any dilemmas, but this is my experience. This law strengthens the institution of architectural competitions, which I would like to especially praise as an architect. These competitions, I say again, I love most and we miss the international architectural competitions most. They affirm copyright architecture, which I think Belgrade lacks. They affirm Serbia as a building country. International architectural competitions, especially for attractive objects and attractive locations, bring great architectural names, and we know that certain cities, when we think of Bilba, what we think first, is Guggenhein. Some author projects are actually a magnet today-to-morrow for tourists and some visit to our city, our country. There were a lot of words about the segment's cost of planning construction land. I think the current economic opportunities and the level of infrastructure equipment have conditioned such a legal solution and that's good. Some suggestions for paying costs according to the level of equipment, i.e. the lack of equipment of certain land, would be a major problem, because the central urban municipalities, which are communally equipped, would be cheaper than some settlements such as Altina, Višnje Banje, which lack infrastructure, and in fact the municipal equipment there would be more realistic, and this principle of real costs, fortunately, I say, thanks for not being caught under pressure and put into the law. Also, paying by zone in the range of 1 to 6 I think it's real, that's what the practice has shown. That I can tell you through some of my experiences. Of course, this applies to Belgrade too much, and that's why I'm saying it. My biggest dilemma and reserve in this law is according to Article 31, which applies to the building rules. I think I also put it on the board of directors and also got a pretty good answer from the secretary of state, but I still want to give you my professional attitude and a really very rich experience right here in this segment. The law says that if the conditions for the design, or the accession, are not determined by the planning document, the authority responsible for issuing the building permit will obtain them from the booth. The separation can determine for which classes and purposes and in which parts of the area for which it is carried do not even need to obtain the conditions of public authority holders in accordance with this law. As much as the secretary of state has resisted today to accept it as one planned document, for me now is a booth in the ranking of the plan document, because the data we're going to get are either in it, and if they don't satisfy the elements of the plan document, then they won't do their job until the end. Why am I reserved and why am I unhappy with this solution? That's what I think, except that it can challenge the self-will of the competent authority, but let's say, that it's not going to happen, that we have the assumption of everyone's positivity, that any element of the plan that doesn't have a segment of public insight can make big mistakes. The plan's act always has public insights because the planner cannot predict all the circumstances of the environmental threat, the threat of another public insight. The worst consequence of this is that it will resort massively to the use of booths and the administration will give up massively on making plans, and there is no quality urbanism without any valid plans. That I'm right here somewhere, on the grounds that I'm right, it says that this law provides that this is not applied to public land and public purposes, and what is not good for public purposes is not good for others and individuals. At the very end, I want to say that the SDPS will support this law, because it is brave and ambitious. I think this law is ahead of the current value systems and I especially thank him for that. I think it would be good for him to generate management, individual, procedure, and reduce abuse and corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14948	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14949	Thank you for all your suggestions. I'll just have a few extra things. As far as the APR is concerned, he'll have nothing but a database. So, according to local self-governments and cities, there's everything, but he's just running the base. So there's no confusion, it's no counter, later on for everyone else who listens, since there were such questions. What's very important, and it's about your sentence about sanctioning whether something is true or not. We have provided for the strengthening of the inspection and the possibility that the building inspector can review everything at any moment and that the sanctions for this should be the withdrawal of the license, whether it is the designer, the main one, how many there are already, and that this is the task of the engineering chamber at the request of the building inspection. I'll give you just one piece of information that on today, we asked for information, 50 thousand licenses were issued, and only 14 were taken away in the previous five years. You were just talking about problems that de facto exist in inaccuracy, in bad projects, etc. That stuff's gonna have to change a little bit more seriously, and we're gonna do it together with the profession. When you mentioned this booth, the booth wasn't a planned document, which you know. I'm not your profession and I don't know, but what we left this for is that the booth should simply give technical characteristics. We can talk about how to avoid the possibility of local self-government or anyone turning in another way that we don't want to be the result of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14950	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14951	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Honorable Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, namely, during an analysis of the effects of this draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction, the taxation of the weaknesses still in force, the Law on Planning and Construction, which we are discussing today. I have a personal view that these weaknesses are far more than those counted in the legal text itself. If we're going to be completely honest and completely objective, they're piling up. These problems did not arise either in 2009, or in 2006, or in 2003, or in 2000, etc. These problems have been settled, not for years, but, unfortunately, decades ago. They did not correct themselves, nor did they remove themselves by adopting any new legal text, nor by its later, subsequent amendments and additions to this matter, even more so, I will give myself the freedom to say that in the matter of this matter, therefore planning and building, it seems to me, that every minister has passed a law that suits him, which has characterized this matter to his own interests, and if not to his own interests, then at least to the interests of his fellow Members, when I say to the Parliament, you have established to add an adjective to the political ones, because I think, or it has favored certain interest groups and what has become a rule without exception, is that every last law that edits this matter has been worse and worse than the previous one. That's exactly what the plan is, out of the state importance of matter, a single complete venison was created. If we could look at everything he's practically produced, we'd see the following. In the first row, he allowed wild construction, in his full vision, without being able to stand in the way of such wild construction, and I would add, what kind of construction, such as land. He was reducing investment, and where investment was possible, as some business reserved for suitable and similar, the perfect ground was created for doing corrupt, criminal acts, and I will add, whose wines have never been processed until the day of today. He made it possible for investors to deal with their favorite hobby, and that hobby is called evasion, tax, of course. He encouraged the work on black rather than fighting the same work on black, even more than that, he stimulated it, instead of creating a perfectly healthy environment, stimulating the development of small businesses. Not to mention that he ate thousands and thousands of jobs, to be absolutely precise, tens of thousands of jobs, and thus made it absolutely impossible to create opportunities to create new jobs. It seems to me that the gene of the problem itself does not lie in all of this, no matter how many criticisms they bring out here, and I think if they were listed, we would need a lot more time than today. The genealogy of the problem, as I said, does not date from yesterday, does not date from the adoption of the still applicable Law on Planning and Construction. If we were to ask that in the form of a question, then it would be – how are we as a state, as a society, systematically destroying, both planning and building, and why are we here today where we are on this extremely significant matter? Where we are, it's nowhere near where we're supposed to be. Of course, I won't, I've listened carefully to my predecessors and you as a representative of the government, and I think that a lot has already been said, and especially with regard to the goals that this law wants to achieve, and they are certainly indisputable, such a thing that none of us can question, as well as a number of positive solutions that I will in principle, in particular, when we discuss amendments, in this place. Just for reasons not to be repeated, I would like to say that in 1961, the Law on urban and regional spatial planning was passed in Serbia, thus implementing the first and fundamental legislative processing of the most significant institutions of urban law and legislation. This 1961 law lays down basic legal terms, defined the legal nature of the spatial plan, the urban plan, urban permits, urban consent, appropriate procedures, and prescribing appropriate procedures, implies the regulation of the rights and obligations of entities in matters of space arrangements. Of course, sanctions are also prescribed, protection of space. We now have a period from 1974 to 1990. It is a famous period under the influence of self-government socialism, where there is a complete tomb of central planning, and urban development, space editing, urban planning and settlements are completely left to local communities. Now, within what we have? We have a contribution to residential construction, we have various municipal contributions, we have a fee to use we have a fee to arrange construction land. It is developed, certainly to a certain extent, then the republican-urbanist legislation, but so with segmentary, certain elements of the modern, but I must admit, rather partial and rather particular legal system, and as Dusan Pajovic said in his work, namely, in the urban laws of the southern Slovenian countries. So, urban and spatial planning loses every character, loses every sense of all the instruments of regulation of social relations in space, because it moves to planning the corresponding concept of joint work, then, national and agreed economies, so that the number of urban and spatial plans are not achieved at all in republics and autonomous provinces, then urban laws are passed, and based on the constitutional solution from the famous 1974 Constitution, and whose consequences are the following, in the first place it is the total partial coverage of relevant urban processes and one thing, I would say, a complete systemic deterioration of state functions on this issue. What effect does that lead to? It leads to all of this manifesting itself through the full deforestation of a city, a spatial entity, because all of the settlements become even in their legal status, while between the basic spatial unit and the state level, the middle form of a regional spatial organisation is not created, which leads to the devaluation of urban flows in the existing state. It can be said that the process ended with a degree of force of republican and rural spatial plans, ranging from 1967 to 1986, except, of course, in the country of Serbia, where the spatial plan was made imagine from 1967 to 1993, and adopted in 1996. Unfortunately, I think it's a sufficiently devastating fact that speaks of us, of course, and the way we've dealt with the regulation of this matter, so the law on planning and construction. However, in the context of the above, the laws on the adoption of republican and rural spatial plans certainly have created one of the so-called so-called so-called "regular" plans. The initial chapels for impeachment of republics as a future independent state, primarily independent Serbia, at the happiness of the DJS. So, the summary could be next, that until the end of the 20th century, urban legislation has been burdened absolutely by everything and everything, absolutely everything we can imagine at this moment, from inadequate constitutional and legal solutions in the first place, to fully partial regulation, primarily space, as a legal phenomenon, and without the consolidation of order and legal legislation that would follow such a thing. Because, watch out, the constitutional legal nature and the character of this legal matter could not have been resolved by any constitutional solution of the then state. It's all about the complexity of this matter that's being arranged. What is most important, it seems to me, that it can be concluded in the following, concepts of law and difference, we are now talking about the collapse of SFRY, these newly created sovereign independent states, are characteristicly clearly visible in most of the legislation, with what you have seen well, and this was then a concept, one of the predominant concepts of special regulation of matter, regulation of space, regulation of settlements, and separately, but also connected and parallelly coordinated regulation of building land and construction, as it was done in the Federation of BiH, as it was done in Montenegro, as it was done in Croatia, Slovenia and Macedonia. In all these countries, such laws are similar in structure, similar to Serbia, for some reason only, under the password of some codification, are experimenting with a mechanical shrinking of legal matter of urbanism, construction land and construction in one single legal text. When I said, you saw correctly, that this matter, this matter, I'm personal, should definitely be shared that it needs to be arranged, completely separate by the legal text. But here, no wonder, we liked to experiment in all areas, so we also connected incompatiblely with some kind of codification. The experiments, of course, always go hand in hand, and the patient dies. The Wazda patient was the Republic of Serbia. After the Law on Planning and Construction was adopted in 2003, which entered into force in April of the same year, it was observed in the application process that its individual solutions pose an obstacle to its application, which speaks enough about how effective the implementation was assessed in practice, especially as regards time limits for the adoption of a spatial and urban plan and of course the famous legalisation and the legalisation of objects without a building permit. Then, on 17 April 2006, the National Assembly passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on Planning and Construction, as the application procedure again showed ineffectiveness. It was then concluded that a new law should be passed which would comply with the then adopted midnight constitution and in the same year 2006 and that harmonisation should be carried out with regard to property over city building land, compliance with EU regulations, and we are talking about 2006. Then in 2009 the Law on Planning and Construction entered into force on 11 September 2009, and here is the law on amendments to the 2009 Law on Planning and Construction. What is interesting is seen in one fact, which is that all of these proposed are, so far, valid, and even those who have ceased to apply, in all legal solutions, the same old instructions are being made – to be brought in order to comply with EU rules. I don't know that EU regulations are changing so quickly, I doubt that, but we can't agree with ourselves for decades back, I absolutely don't doubt it. When drawing up an appropriate regulation in the Republic of Serbia, compliance with the primary, secondary and other EU sources is required. Some analyses of harmonisation, urban regulations with country regulations, EU member states point to the need for a draft urban law that would have a special structure, which would primarily constitute urban planning. This includes content and adoption of plans, then implementation of urban plans, and implementation through all those mechanisms of harmonisation of private and public interest, then regulation of land use and land regulation through urban co-operation, financing of building municipal infrastructure, financing of funding for integration, urban standards, etc. The reasons for the adoption of this law states that the basic reason for amending and supplementing them is to improve the conditions of construction in Serbia and by implementing a united procedure for issuing building permits, that municipalities, as stated in the reasons for adoption, have applied the law as they wish, as they can, that the deadlines for issuing a building permit ranged from several days to several years. There he did what he wanted to do for the issue of a building permit to wait for more than 250, it seems to me that 269 was taken as the number listed in the bill, and that is the fact that by ranking Serbia in a fantastic 186 place, out of 189 countries, all according to a study conducted by the World Bank in the area of obtaining building permits. My question is do you believe that the units of local self-government, they have been the most controversial to us so far, at least when it comes to this matter, as one of several public authorities responsible for issuing building permits, precisely within this united procedure for issuing building permits, will truly respect, in my opinion, personally, very ambitiously set deadlines and yet show efficiency? In the units of local self-government many resist and so to speak – the hedge, because of any changes in existing legal solutions, apply anything new, by introducing any new institutes, I have already mentioned. Many of them apply the laws completely ad hoc, double archimees are still in force, and corporate actions are still, unfortunately, all present. As for the software solution, which should ensure the implementation of a united procedure through the natural electronic exchange of electronic documents, I consider it a very good solution, as much as possible a very good solution, and if this software solution could be able to enable some insight into the criminal records of individual urban heads in certain local self-governments, I think that would already be epochal. So they're taking out criminal records if that too could be provided through that software solution, especially for those who deal with urbanism. I think it would significantly reduce the rate of corruption in our country. When it comes to enrolment of property rights, it is said that this enrolment is expected for 45 days. I will tell you, even longer, that I know from practice, and according to the proposal for a bill, the competent authority of the immovableity cadastre is obliged to enter property rights within 15 days of the date of obtaining complete documentation. You see, a lot of our country's problems have been in the way for years and years and decades and decades, and I think that these same problems could be solved as quickly as possible if they were approached as bread on a random basis, as through the necessary kind of revision of the national diameter and catastra. I think that's what our country needs, and I think that was the first step that had to be taken. I'm saying this again from experience, and I believe you'll agree with me, because it would also reduce corruption and at a high rate. Also, when we refer to neighbors, if a comparative legal analysis is carried out with the topic – as far as they have the deadline for issuing a building permit, I think at least that we cannot compare with some of them, at least not in the context of the mentioned one, at least when it comes to state diameter and cadastre, because some of our neighbors have land-based systems not for decades, but centuries back. In that regard, any comparison would be absolutely inappropriate. I personally know what these effects are, whether some of the effects of the evaluation that will be seen primarily in the plan to fight corruption, and through the application of this new legal solution. As far as the transparency itself is concerned, the presentation of the bill still remains, and today the bill, which we are discussing, has certainly been high-level, and this transparency cannot be disputed absolutely, if the number of roundtables held is looked at, but also public debates. Some present, as we can see in the bill, are those whose name is synonym for controversial privatisations, but no one can take away their right to attend, and whose fate and outcomes, particularly last week, were interested in the evaluation team of Greka when he was in Belgrade. As far as specific provisions are concerned, as time expires, I will talk about them in particular because I have submitted some amendments, as well as my colleague Mirko Chikiriz in front of the parliamentary group and ultimately, I would only add that one law, however perfect in its legal form, does not mean that he will have an effective application in practice. This is what you yourself have well noticed, that there are laws that are partially or incompletely applied, and unfortunately we are witnessing that in the past some laws have never been applied. For example, it is a law that is universally known and that I will always refer to, and that is the Law on lustration. It's an indicator that will show the effects and results and apply this law. I'd like to make sure that in some future period, at least this matter doesn't make any changes or additions, but they're just my wishes and they don't have to come true.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14952	Thank you, Miss Batic. Dr Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14953	Thank you for your opinion and suggestions. Just two three things I'd like to add. It is that you mentioned 1961, and in 1931, Serbia had an obligation through the Civil Code to make the first regulatory plan. Maybe someone would say that we used to take care of a lot more than we do today. You mentioned a cadastre that really is a serious stumbling block in certain procedures. At present, there are amendments and additions to the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastrophe. The commissions have been formed. Exactly what you said will be carried out in one part of the audit so that we can move on at all. The amendments to this Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro plus, let's say, building policy, a document that the Government is now preparing, or the Ministry, I believe that they can help us actually meet the main objective of this law. It is not the aim of this law only whether we need to comply with the EU or not. First of all, the goal is to reduce real administration, red tape, make everything transparent. Of course it won't be easy, but our plan is by February 15th, all sublaws will be completed. So February 15th is the day when all 40 sublegal acts and five regulations must be completed. Eight sublaws and regulations are already over and on February 15th we have to have a complete what's called law and sublegal acts so we can do anything normal at all. As far as local self-government is concerned, they're being trained. They'll have to start on March 1st, act like everything's in order. I know it's ambitious. That's true, but if you go along with them, there are already local self-governments that are applying it partially somewhere. So, if you get now... Also, another very important thing you mentioned, I apologize for jumping off the subject, but you mentioned software. As far as local self-government is concerned, it will be only important for them to have access to the Internet. This is so-called. "Singapur method," according to experts, which was applied in Macedonia. People saw that. I said several times, if Macedonia can, with all due respect, do such a thing, then I really don't see any reason that Serbia can't do it. For that reason, teams of people were made. I really believe, not to believe that we're gonna stick to deadlines, we have to do it under this law. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14954	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14955	Mr. Chairman, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction. My colleagues have already said that this is the fourth or fifth shift since 2003. Every change was ambitious in order to make the law more effective and better. However, this was obviously not the case until today. All the reasons for bringing these changes are also in this document that citizens can see when I pick it up, to some 270 pages. It is true that out of 189 countries we are ranked by the efficiency of issuing building permits somewhere in 186 places. It's true that we have an average building permit waiting for 240 days and a few days and all that brings us back to the beginning. What I'd rather be honest with you, though I think these changes are quite ambitious and we're going to support them anyway, but what I think was better is that we went with a whole new law. I understand your arguments that it took time and everything, but these are so much change that it could have been a new law. What I personally miss about these changes is the unresolved issue of conversion. What we have who run local self-government as a fundamental remark above all by foreign investors is a story of conversion and what to do and how a foreign investor will recognize something that is being used. With these amendments to the law, we have something we call a silent conversion. I'll be back to that a little bit later, but I'd like to ask the Vice-President of the Government to make that conversion law as soon as possible. We were promised on the board that it would be in the first quarter of next year and I ask that it be respected. Once again, don't go back to the old legalization story. Without ending the conversion, without ending the story of legalization and one more thing that few people mentioned here, and that's the story of restitution and recovery of property, we won't have an orderly and efficient story in our construction and in general about the issues of permits and land and everything else. Now let me go back to the law itself and the procedure itself. There's a lot of newspapers, and that's something I want, first of all for the citizens, to say about the newspapers themselves, because that's what they'll all be interested in when they come to local self-government. Why do I say local self-government? Ninety percent of this law will be carried by local self-government, from the moment the party enters a municipality and says, "Good afternoon, until the end, and the end is the book of the facility." When I say, in the object's book, it's our key problem now. My colleague spoke of software for a while, but I say, if we have a catastrophe in a situation like this today, I'm afraid these deadlines we've been able to honor. Perhaps it was also necessary to consider that local cathedrals would be covered by local self - administrations in a single software and that the book would be more effective in that way in the end. Let's get back to square one. My colleagues have already talked about energy efficiency itself. I don't want to talk about it much, except that these changes have been suggested something that's a newspaper. So far, there have been talk of buildings, buildings where energy efficiency is needed, and now a word is mentioned – space, which I would very much like to commend. Space means that we can already talk in urban plans and conditions about municipalities, cities and regions, which is recognised by the EU, that plans and energy efficiency are done not only in objects, but also in space, which is for every praise. What is crucial to this law is a united procedure in the procedures for issuing acts in the exercise of the right to construction and use of objects. That's the key thing, when the party comes to local self-government and says, "Good afternoon, I've done an idea project, I want to get urban conditions." Urbanist conditions are something that changes earlier, or location conditions, I apologize, something that changes the earlier location permit and it's now a newspaper. The paper is that on the counter of each local self-government, the head of the municipality or already one of the authorized persons will determine the person who will be in charge of receiving the case and later responding to his whereabouts. The object comes to an authorised person, it's now an interesting thing, an authorized person within the local self-government, which could probably be the chief of urbanism or someone, an asset or someone who's already been determined in urbanism itself, who is still handling the case within deadlines. Madam Vice-President, I am also on the Infrastructure Committee, and these are deadlines. First the five-day deadlines. Five-day deadlines are very short and very ambitious. I have submitted the amendment, and I think we have an understanding from both you and your associates, to put it into the law to be five working days. It's very important, because we have the possibility that someone will show up on Friday afternoon, that we have Saturday and Sunday, that we have then Monday, possibly, if it's a state holiday where it's all connected, your smile is very charming, but here the situation is very serious, here it can happen that we have a delay and that someone pays for it tomorrow, because for every delay here is a criminal measure, or criminal provisions. Then, what is very important, as regards further monitoring of the case itself, when it comes out to obtain location conditions from the municipality and goes to local public enterprises. So what the parties used to do on their own, and this was obtained by the consent of the municipal, EPS, Telekom and all, is now being done by an authorised official of the municipal administration. Now, these public authorities should also meet those deadlines. Then we get this interesting new expression, which is going to be very common now, and it's a booth. I purposely mentioned to your associate on the Committee, and I purposely called it a plan document and I got a correction, which you have now done with my predecessors, that it is a technical document. It's actually a key thing that can be the subject of abuse, and it seems to me it's better if it's a plan document that I think my colleague Bosnjak has agreed with. Why? Because it can be the subject of small abuses in public enterprises, which can always be called to a booth and when you have a single breach of the whole procedure, it can often turn into practice with us in Serbia. I said, as far as the deadlines are concerned, that's where I find it necessary to enroll those working days. What you already mentioned, and that's the register. They form, so to speak, two registers. One register is on the level of the municipality, the other at the level of the Agency for Business Registers. At the level of the municipality, of course, it is more important, because each party will be able to monitor the location of its object and the degree of achievement, whether it is local or later building permit. It's me, and I asked that on the Committee, why is the central register at the level of the Agency for Economic Registers? I think it could've been in the ministry. I'm always here at the National Assembly to shut down the Agency, and I was someone who started the story about the Post Traffic Agency. You know why? This is a very important thing. I'll be one of the few to mention here the abolition of the Space Planning Agency, which I strongly support, but, on the other hand, we end one agency, but we give even greater authority to the Agency for Economic Registers, where we're all aware of the past as they've all made mistakes, what they've all done. The law says that the Agency for Business Registers will carry out the technical part within three months, informing the resolution ministry of all cases from across Serbia. Well, as far as the press is concerned, what mistakes have they made about some ID cards and corporate formation, what kind of mistakes can only be made here, can we all ask ourselves together? What I'd also like to ask you to explain one thing to us. The law appears and specifically defines the city's architect and says cities will have a city architect, but what is interesting is said to function as well as the chairman of a local self-government planning commission. That's interesting, and I agree with that, but I would only mention here, and to fellow employees, and also to citizens who watch this, in 2004, when I, among other things, was elected directly to the president of the municipality, we were then appointed to municipalities and cities of the main municipal, or city urbanists, and when we appointed them president of the commission, they were at that point in conflict of interest and received warnings from the Anti-Corruption Agency that they were in conflict of interest. Now that the same solution is coming back here, I just want to ask you -- are we going to have problems with this member tomorrow? Also, what's important is land. They're good solutions, and I must commend that whoever owns the facility automatically gets to use the land. I've had opportunities as the president of the municipality a hundred times to face the problem that the man is the owner of the pay, and then comes into the local self-government that needs that land to declare that we have decisions of the Constitutional Court for this business, we have everything else and then there are problems that are just going around and this is the right opportunity for these things to be solved. Also, when I mentioned the conversion in the opening part, I used the term conversion, the silent conversion, to be commended, and I commend it, which is that local self-government, everywhere where the founder of the Republic of Serbia, public enterprises, local communities, eventually, will be able to sign up as owners of facilities where they are now users, and are listed as users before September 2009, and that's a good thing. It is also important that all those in public competitions, mostly through local self-government, get land to be used for at least 50 years on a regular basis, can now, without any compensation to enroll this land in property and that is a step forward. Hopefully, I say once again, that decisive step in the next quarter to resolve the issue of conversion. Again, I don't separate the issue of conversion from the issue of restitution, but the bottom line is that some countries, for example, are countries. Croatia has cut it off since 1996 and is now in a much better position than we are. A moment ago, when I was talking about deadlines, I mentioned that it would take those five days, I don't know 15, to make it work days. There's one more thing I mentioned, and on the Infrastructure Committee, and I'd like to ask you to consider it. I have submitted an amendment in this sense that the deadlines you have set, I can understand that local self-government will apply this law from 1 March 2015 and that nothing is disputed, until 1 January 2016 it will be possible to do paperwork, to surrender everything, and then to have everything in electronic form since 1 January 2016. Knowing the problems of local self-government throughout Serbia, knowing the public procurement system, then, there will be a need here, I mentioned the city's architecture a little earlier, maybe for some others, and we have the Law on Public Employment, and I have submitted an amendment that only the pro-longing of this electronic work will be done under July 1, 2016, so that it doesn't happen to us, and then it would spoil the whole story, that we are working here at the end of next year on an extension of these deadlines, because some local self-governments due to their lack of people, personnel and technical inability to simply fail to respect these deadlines. Also, another newspaper. When I mentioned this story about land, a lot of colleagues were already talking about the construction land fee. I have also submitted an amendment that I consider to be meaningful and can help. So we've got a refund suspension and I agree with that. We also have the introduction of contributions and that's a good idea. On the other hand, local self-government is now required under this law to perform zoning in their municipalities from extra zone to least zone and that's all right. Local self-governments are already doing it because of setting the tax rate on property, various depreciations and everything else, so that's not a problem. What's a little bit controversial now, and what we can argue about, is how much is this reduction going to affect the budgets of local self-government? We make a lot of laws here that significantly reduce the revenues of local self-government. How much will these contributions affect the budget of local self-government when looking at a reduction compared to the former fees paid? Because I'll remind you that local infrastructure on the shoulders of local municipalities is 80%. Now that we have it all the time, whether it's 1, 2 or 3%, a reduction in income, it can be felt right away. For the sake of time, let me just say what I wanted to say through the amendment, and these are payment deadlines. So a reduced contribution to the tax is given the possibility to pay, who in cash, that's a 30% reduction, or this other thing, and that's 36 months of war, or three years. I honestly think this is a long period and it should be the longest 12 months here. The means of security are the bonds, of course, and it can be very easy for someone to fail financially in 36 months and that absolutely his note cannot serve anything, nor can it be charged. If he is a serious investor, with these reductions that this law gives him, it's absolutely 12 months enough for him to meet his obligations towards local self-government, because local self-governments are planning a budget, of course, on an annual basis, and I can't plan it for 36 months. Also, what is more important, and what I specifically wanted to mention, are the commissions for technical reception. It's something we all meet in a bar, with big problems, and that's what it is. Firepower. Sometimes it takes five to six months to carry out a technical reception. Here in law we provided for a commission to be an engineer for safety at work. I can agree with that, it's not all questionable, but I just might need a little bit of your clarification in how to define that simply issuing these consents, those so-called. The fires get faster and more efficient. On the other hand, what needs to be pointed out at the very end is criminal policy. On the one hand, you pointed out in the opening part, which I absolutely agree with, that Serbia has an insufficient number of building inspectors. There you have to make one extra effort to increase that number. Also, what's important is that it's a clear criminal policy for anyone who doesn't comply with the provisions of this law. That's one good thing and that's something we should be commending. At the very end of this exhibit, Madam Prime Minister, these changes are, I have already said, ambitious. You'll need both energy and endurance to bring this to an end. Please reconsider what I have mentioned about the deadlines themselves, so that the law can simply be applied more easily and easier to run. I agree, if this could have been applied in Macedonia, why couldn't it have been in Serbia? I sincerely believe that by about half of 2016 we will have electronic building permits in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14956	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14957	Right at the beginning, I think you're absolutely right about this deadline, five working days is something that's real. Since a lot of MPs have talked about it on the Committee itself, we will certainly accept it as an amendment. Now a few things you mentioned, which are important because of everyone who listens to us. When you say - I have to start from the beginning, from those 200 and some sides, we, as a ministry with this law, have given all the analysis and the most detailed member and what we have changed and why we have changed. Yeah, that's 200 pages, but in fact, the law has 74 pages. Right? So there's no 200 and some sides. Somehow sometimes it's not good when all the data is given, we're never satisfied. We really wanted you to get every word that we've changed, as well as the analysis and the reason why we're doing it, and that's why it's along with the explanation. When you mentioned the conversion, the conversion law should be in the first quarter of next year, and it will certainly solve the concerns we currently have. Perhaps it should be said because of the public that all other countries of the former Yugoslavia had resolved the issue of conversion by 2000, and only after that went to privatisation. Unfortunately, we went first to privatize, and then to solve that question. What is it? It's here. So we have to figure out a way to solve this. I believe we'll do it with the law. When you mentioned an officer, he's not an officer, it's a service. We, of course, say the counter in one place, but it's a service within local self-government. There's a clear hierarchy of responsibility. There will be no need for new employment, but there will be need for redistribution and for a different organisation within local self-government, so that this service can work. When you mentioned a booth, we don't need a booth if we succeed and we insist that there are planning documents, and it's 12 months. Especially now that the law is allowed to produce planning documents can also physically and legally fund, which in many ways helps local self-government itself. I can't agree with that when you say – what does it mean to cut revenue because we now have a reduction in the fee, or a contribution that is much lower? Because by reducing that fee and the whole law that we are giving, we are opening up the possibility of raising the construction industry and building in local self-government and that investors are coming. Note, domestic or foreign, natural or legal persons, this automatically means increasing the income of local self-government itself. So, as much as it shrinks, because we're no longer going to let every local self-government do it the way it suits it, but we're going to prescribe the maximum amount, we're giving investors the opportunity to be interested because they won't have what I often call, some local self-government not to mention, almost a hack over the investor, which is really not the right way. You mentioned the APR. So, the APR is technically enough to just run the register. The same register exists in local self-government, but it must exist in one central place. It's not a expansion or some new agency, it's an existing agency that's technically equipped enough to do the job. Basically, the entire base is all over the local self-government that's going to do this job. In the end, you mentioned a commission and an engineer. It's not a work protection engineer, it's a fire protection engineer. You're absolutely right, the investors, when we talked to them, are one of the biggest problems exactly that agreement on fire conditions or whatever it is they call it. She's been waiting pretty long. There's a law - 15 days and there are criminal measures if it doesn't end. I think there will also have to be serious changes within the services that provide that information. I think I said the most important thing, but there's going to be an opportunity, so we'll talk about it when they're amendments. Anyway, I totally agree on a five-day deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14958	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has been given by MP Slobodan Homen, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, today we are talking about a law that is extremely important and extremely important to a small and poor country, such as ours. You know very well that we don't have a lot of resources from which we can possibly make some money, fill in the budget and ultimately, what's the goal of it all, improve the standard of ourselves, or our citizens. Unfortunately, there aren't many of those areas where we can do that, but this is one of those areas. It would probably be a priority for agriculture, but right behind that, I believe, is that it's the construction industry. We are witnessing that since the economic crisis, in fact around 2010, in 2011, we have a constant decline in the production of apartments, the construction of new apartments in the construction industry. At the very beginning, the Minister presented some information that is absolutely correct, and that is our sad reality. The question is, what can we do to stop this trend or to start growing, especially given that economic trends are slightly improving in Europe and America, and that would be very good to spill over to our country. I'll tell you just for the sake of data on the depth of the crisis today in the construction industry data from the previous three years, and that's the data from the Statistics Office, so there's not much thinking. I took some parameters that are clear to all, when it comes to the construction industry, for example, the number of completed and built dwellings on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. For example, 18,449 apartments were built in 2011, in 15,223, 2013 13.505. So in these three years, according to the Bureau, we have a 30% drop in the construction of new apartments in the Republic of Serbia. Why is that happening? We used to have a law that I, as a representative of the opposition, must say that your law is better, there are really good solutions and I think that in practice it will produce results, especially if you have in mind and understanding of our amendments. The question arises whether any law is sufficient in itself, and you are, of course, competent for certain other areas, and I will link it to this law for a simple reason because it comes from your reasoning. You indicated that this law must give certain qualities, that it would improve the situation in the construction industry. First of all, buying apartments, let's keep it at the level of an ordinary man who can afford it, depending on the standard. So, from the height of the salary, I wouldn't want to waste Parliament's time, say that the average wages are low in Serbia, we all know that. But what's interesting is that it can affect the question of credit. I almost had a chance to have a contract in my hand between a construction company and a bank. The contract is about tenm euros for building apartments in Belgrade. The return date is 36 months. The lowest interest the banks give today is 7%. It's such a big interest on the annual level that she doesn't suffer the investor's interest in investment. I mean, in addition to the law you've proposed, it's very important to see if there's a possibility of subsidizing loans, as to the construction industry, means interest to be subsidized. It's not disputed that someone who gets a building permit, buys land, will return, but will subsidize. On the other hand, it also helps citizens who are buyers of these apartments, companies, businesses, however, to reduce interest rates that are so large today, that this is the main reason why the construction industry is dying today. Furthermore, there is another very important area that concerns you, I think you will probably enter parliament with that law, it is a matter of legalization. I think what has made chaos, among other better or worse solutions to various laws, is that every few years we pass a new law on legalisation and we say – everything will be legalised again, under certain conditions. In other words, why would someone go through the procedures provided for in this law, when we all know we're going to have the law again now, or during some next government, and that's how it's been for 20 years and a change of years. Then it's my better interest to build on wild, not to get permission, not to pay any more or less fees, so one day I'm going to file for legalization, and it won't be possible to bring down the facility. That's how we spin around in circles. This practice must stop and please take care of this if and when you propose a new Law on Legalisation in which way it will be provided, or from which date objects will be able to legalise themselves. In particular, what is very important to you, and today we are in a serious problem when it comes to catastre, which is the entry of the rights of the objects under that special law, famous and in the people known as "The Great Law". What is a fundamental problem, in addition to the law, the final provision says, the law ceases to apply at the end of this year. So everything that's done has no effect. Whether you have entered or not, what are the deadlines, what will be the consequences. I mean, it would be wise, and I don't know how long you have until the end of the year, to go in with the amendments and the additions of that law, because it's a terrible mess, especially in the catastrophe. We can be angry here at the catastran that a good part of the problem, as it is when the law is applied, but that law has simply made such a mess that no one has a concrete solution. Thousands of objects are registered under this special law, and there is simply no solution. Perhaps the solution is not to go into parliament but to really stop it and erase everything that the law has brought, because I think personally, that it should never have been brought. In addition to this law, we have a problem with the logs, and we have to point that out. Due to the current situation of the relationship between the lawyer and the minister, there are far fewer overestimates of the immovableity contracts and this further makes real business and application more difficult. All this data I read about the number of apartments, etc. I have some more tables, but I don't think I should bother you with the details because it's very well known what the situation is. As far as the law itself is concerned, I've said and I'm behind it, I think there are really solid solutions. What is a fact and what is a grudge to the Minister, which is that it should have been brought before, or if it was not possible to bring it sooner, I don't think you should have announced through the media – it will be delivered in a month, two, three or four, because here's from practice what happened. All investors expected it to be better, and simply no one submitted any more claims for building permits than it was on hold. Now, okay, the law has come, it's good, but we're going to face the situation now that we have a large number of requests, or secretariats, that have to work with, but what we'd say is better ever than anyone. I don't think there should be any such important laws in advance. As for the number of days needed for a building permit, you said it nicely, and I totally agree, that's something that needs to be changed, because all of this current economic situation in our country cannot be solved, especially in the construction industry, without the arrival of foreign investors. A foreign investor measures a few things. One question is the cost of construction, profit and whether it can make money, but another question is the time limit in which someone can provide the necessary documentation. The third question is legal certainty, or the work of courts, first of all, when I say it, I mean economic courts, because you're going to have some rights that someone will harm you in some decent time to achieve. If you add these three deadlines, I think it is very interesting for investors today to go to Bulgaria, Romania to one of the neighbouring countries that are in the EU, rather than to come to us. These are the things you really need to get rid of. Of course your good will is not controversial, but from experience many ministers before you, and someone here said everyone had their own law that he proposed, they all must have entered with good faith. It's a good idea for that counter to be united procedures, but I think after the law is passed, it's a big responsibility to control the application in practice. Everyone who has passed the laws has passed it. It's been released and it's an administration and how can I say bureaucracy, always invent some extra procedures that don't work. I think the ministry will play a very important role in day-to-day procedure control. Of course, we're talking about Belgrade, but you need to build some teams that will have a chance to go after Serbia and control the application. Otherwise, you'll see, in three, four, five months, everything will be back to the same. These are some experience from practice so far, and I think, regardless of any representative of government and opposition, we intend to make this country feel good and to make the citizens feel good. As for land planning fees, the fact is that they cost, that they're an obstacle to investment, and that's why I support that idea of reducing them. You will see through the amendments, we have submitted a number of amendments as a parliamentary group. I can tell you, if you have understanding and how serious you are to enter into the essence of our amendments, I am prepared to vote in favour of your bill, but I ask you to consider them carefully. One of these amendments concerns the amount of the reduction if you pay a one-time fee for land use, because we all know that by last year in Belgrade that reduction was 50%. The decision by the City of Belgrade reduced it to 30%. I don't see the effect. It wasn't built when it was 50% or 30%. So any increase in compensation obviously doesn't even bring in budgeting, less people build. So we need to limit local self-government. My proposal is that it be up to 45%, and of course you think about it and you'll see how much it suits you in principle or not. Through one amendment, we have submitted a suggestion that I think will be useful to you personally. I don't know what the legislator's personal intention is, but it's a question of when the minister can release or reduce the fee by his disposition. Personally, as someone who was a representative of the state, I know that such projects can be important to the state, but my advice is that you don't do that and that authority to give to the minister yourself, you're going to open the first question of the possibility of using the minister, to set an example -- you need someone to pay the communal five million euros, let us take the minister a million, I'm not talking to you, whoever is the minister doesn't matter and thus reduce the communals. It's far better for you and for the government, for the government of the Republic of Serbia to make such a decision, you know that the government determines both what it needs for expropriation and to pay the fees, and I don't think anything will make it difficult for the work of such significant and large projects, it could be some project in Belgrade, or somewhere else tomorrow, so in that sense I'm giving you a suggestion and I think it would be good if you understand that you transfer that jurisdiction to the government, and the effect will be the same. The third thing, same through amendments, which is more important to me, is what we talked about on the Committee today, so here's a quick note, because surely when there's a debate in particular we'll be able to touch, maybe we won't, if you adopt the amendment, so it'll be easier for everyone, it's a question of a member who regulates the renaming of an object when it comes to compatible purposes through an urban project. That member exists in all the laws of the previous. What's a fact has never been applied. You've put it more or less nicely, but it's still not going to be applied. Why? The answer, specifically from the Ministry of Belgrade, is – it is true that the law provides, but we do not know how to apply it. In other words, it's a dead letter on paper and that's good. What's this about? If New Belgrade no longer needs business, where it is not predicted it would not be built for housing. Communals are more or less like fees, and you simply block construction. Because here's the problem with investors. For example, when you charge for heating, it is far more expensive if it is a business facility or if it is an apartment. Although I don't understand why there's that difference, because heating is heating, so charge the commercial price. Please look at this amendment, it's very important and I think it would unblock a good part of the location in downtown Belgrade and in the centre of other major cities, because investors would have an interest in building. We have formulated that amendment, please look at it, if you think you need to make some sort of correction or a clear formulation, it's at your disposal. I repeat, I'm a lawyer, I'm not professional enough in this area, so I'm asking you to take a good look at it. As far as the law itself is concerned, of course, the final decision, what I have already said that practice, I hope that we, as a Assembly Committee, will have the opportunity to monitor the functioning and implementation of this law and hope to produce results. What we have suggested through the amendments is that you consider that certain deadlines should be shortened. You have provided for the adoption of sublegal acts by one deadline until 1 March of the actual application, after which you postponed until the end of the following year. Personally, I think it's better if you bring in all the sublaws by March, because it'll be easier in practice to apply them. We can come to an agreement as soon as the single base is applied, etc., but there's no reason not to bring in all sublegal acts within four months, because I'm sure the Ministry has sufficient capacity. In short, an extremely important law, I am sorry that the MPs are not really present here in the larger number, is unlikely that we will face such an important law for the citizens of Serbia and for the economy and for the industry in the coming period, can produce the result provided that you look at the continent, that these other laws that I have mentioned, soon you enter the Assembly and make overall solutions to the problems, and ultimately, success as a minister, will primarily be appreciated through the functioning of this area, and, of course, responsibility, if you do not give results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14960	The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14961	Thank you for your suggestions. You're absolutely right about this discretionary right by article 97, that's something we're going to transfer to the government. So, if you've given that amendment, it will be accepted. We'll talk about this amount, about the 50 and 45% fee, as we suggested. As far as deadlines are concerned, by 15 February all sublegal acts must be completed. What remains for later, only this electronic part at the end of the year, and in paper form, will immediately begin to apply the law. That's what our plan is. I agree that the law is important and ambitious and depends on all of us, but I believe that it can be applied from conversations with everyone, with all local self-government, because they all have the same interest, so they all have an interest in completely simplifying procedures, because it will be easier for them to do so. We already have teams working. I think this is the most important thing when we're talking about the Department of Construction right now. Of course you're thinking about legalizing. It's not a good practice that we had in the previous period, but we have to find one moment, one way when things are going to intersect, simply when we're going to find that line where we're going to put the line on illegal construction. It's still being done and the decision hasn't been made yet, but I think the expert public can be very helpful in that regard.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14962	The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Mr Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14963	Dear Minister, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I agree with my colleagues today who spoke of this law as one of the most important laws we have adopted in the previous six months in parliament. I would not agree with those MPs who were saying that this is a law that is in some way a continuation of bad laws, or they were talking in this context that the ministers or governments that used to work were making laws that were worse, one of the other ones, and the analogy of that is that this will also be one bad law. I don't want to believe that. I simply believe that every minister, every government must respect what the previous experiences are, must make a certain continuity in its work and in its way and vision, how it solves certain problems and how it runs this society. I consider this a very important issue, because here a dilemma is opening, which is why today the amendment and addition of the Law on Planning and Construction has been made before us, if the minister has already accused Minister Dulic in her opening address and the concept which the previous Government had and which is why today we are discussing a series of members and whether parts of this law that have been adopted in some way by this Government, that is, this ministry. I think it was necessary for today's minister to send a clear message to all the services, including to all citizens that in some way the continuity of the previous bill would be continued. I believe that this was done today, we would have one very clear message, that in the coming period we would give citizens a chance precisely to this topic she was talking about, which is legalisation, that there would be no sudden shifts and sudden changes, and that no message would be sent today that Serbian citizens should stop legalising, and you are fully aware that in all cities in Serbia, legalisation stands, among other things, because of these messages being sent. For example, in Užica, you have 10,000 legalization requirements, over the previous year and a half 1,300 requirements have been resolved and on official duty. So people have the wrong messages and I invite both you and your associates not to confuse the public in the coming period and to send such messages. Today is unacceptable, the story of the adoption of a new law, in such a way as to make changes and complements, 50 percent of the previous law. I don't think that's right, and if the concept was to really offer reform law to citizens, then it should have gone with the new bill. I think the first and the most basic thing that is a mistake in this law is to give up the design. Madam Minister, I am one of the people who understands you completely when you say you are aware that the effects of the application of this law will be at first worse than expected. I'm absolutely certain and aware that you know all the risks you're going into, but what's my grudge and perhaps the biggest objection to this law is giving up the design documentation. I argue that if you do not insist that local administrations are fully involved in the completion of the design and spatial plans and general regulatory plans and groups for certain areas, you do not have any opportunity to apply this law in practice. MPs and citizens of Serbia should know that the 2009 law, adopted in September of the month, meant that the procedure for issuing construction permits was 31 days, and I believe that the very experience you had, and that you also have associates who were then co-workers of the minister, should serve you in assessing how this law will be implemented, or what their effects will be. I believe it is necessary and I have submitted an amendment to Article 130 of the Law to set deadlines until when local administrations will draw up plans for general regulation, spatial plans and all those plans they were obliged to make by September 2012. If you have not stated in any word in this law and in your explanation that you have not made the obligation of the local administration to finish the job, then I doubt that you have a vision of how this law will be implemented in the coming period. Another important regret is the abolition of the Spatial Planning Agency. If you have an agency that has been running the planning documentation process for years, I think it's an agency that has had the capacity, regardless of all the political stories and estimates that last in Serbia for many years back on the work of the agencies, this agency should have kept its activities, or jurisdiction, and by my assessment the error is that you have divided the united procedure into these two sectors. So, one is about projects and the APR, the other is about plans and cadastres. I think it was more logical for you to keep the Space Planning Agency and that agency is doing these jobs. The abolition of the agency in conditions where 90% of Serbian cities have not completed the planning documentation and when you do not have the mechanisms to end this documentation in the coming period is just a mistake and it is a confirmation that you are giving up on this essential job and on the application of this law, as well as on the application of many other laws. The deadlines previously provided for the application of the Law on the issue of a building permit were almost identical to those of these deadlines. Experience has shown that there are a lot of problems here, and I agree that it was necessary to amend this concept and the institutions of this country, i.e. employees in public enterprises, in a way to organise how to set up these procedures, i.e. how to make it better. However, one of the major problems of this law, it is inconsistencies with other laws, especially on the Law on Public Property, the Law on the Cataster, on the State Preference, the Law on Legalisation, and to read this law proposed by Velja Ilic, which is the law on special conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. So these are all laws that are in some way not in line with some members and in some parts of this law. Therefore, the idea for a united procedure that is good and which is the continuation of activities that many local administrations, many ministries, many people, many associations of citizens have been preparing for years through workshops and through various projects should now be brought to life, but what is bad is that the shortcomings of this law are in fact challenging the realization of this idea, although you do not care to bring this law into line with other laws you will be in trouble. So, with the combined procedure that we are talking about there are risks, I have proposed in the amendments to postpone, firstly, this deadline of 1 March 2015 for including local self-government in this procedure, because I am absolutely certain that local administrations and due to the lack of material and organisational and staff solutions do not have the opportunity to do this job right and it is not good that you are already faced with solutions, i.e. problems that are difficult and which you cannot overcome. One of the solutions that could have been given for this transitional period until 1 January 2016 is that the deadline for all these activities in the procedure should be moved to about 60 days and if electronic communication is not used from 1 March, then the real problem of all the services on the ground is respected and the deadline extended to 60 days. We have made an amendment that all deadlines, including those related to decision-making on a local new one, will be extended until 1 January 2016 to establish the system. We also suggest that during this period several pilots of municipalities, four or five cities that already have gis-developed systems, which have a good experience, which have a planned documentation, which have public services that are at an enviable level and which work well, may be the pilot of projects and places where you will analyse the effects and problems of this process. What is particularly important to me, and we have put the amendment to it, making planning documentation at the local level, must also be followed by archiving or sending that data to the cadastre. It is precisely for the reason that no problems occur, and we expect that they happen, especially when you have very much introduced restrictive measures of punishment, i.e. misapplication, that there should not be a negative response on the moment of the request for construction, when the responsible person from the city administration sends that documentation, public enterprises and institutions, that it is not precisely because of the fear of people from the misapplications, and that all the time, from the “Vododa” from the EPS and other systems, that officials who are in charge of providing the answer are actually protecting their companies and protecting themselves by giving conditions that do not comply with the needs of investors, it seems to me that the colleague specifically spoke about the fact that the documentation is very often unquality and incorrect. What I particularly wanted to point out was the lack, i.e. the inability to initiate administrative proceedings for cases that are being launched before the city administrations until the part where local conditions are issued. So I believe that in this political context that will be very often discussed here, where an investor or an interested party submits an application and subject matter to the city administration, the situation is that the issue of location conditions, practically the appeal it would make, should be given to the city council. The city council in this case prescribes conditions through its services and makes solutions as a political body. If we add that the city council is also asking the Committee of Plans, and we add that the Assembly is again setting up a political function, which is a city urbanist, then the question is whether it is right and whether it is legal, or how one of the same authorities can prescribe conditions and resolve complaints on the subject of which it is concerned. We also proposed amendments... Madam Minister, can you follow me?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14964	I'm following you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14965	We have proposed amendments to give good thought to the position of city urbanist as president of the commission. I agree with a colleague who talked about it. First, it is necessary to ask the Anti-Corruption Agency for an opinion on whether it is a conflict of interest. That's one thing. Secondly, and if it were not a conflict of interest, we believe that the city's urbanist, regardless of the responsibility he holds with his post, should not also be president of the planning committee. I think it's a good solution that you've changed the proposals that were first in the public debate in the draft law, that the Committee on Plans has a binding opinion. I think that was completely wrong. But this proposal that the Commission for Plans has an advisory opinion is not good enough, i.e. the question is raised to the same member, you have stated that it is necessary for the city budget or municipalities to separate the money for the functioning of that commission and I am asking the question – if this commission works in these circumstances, if it has only an advisory opinion, should it have any compensation? We propose that members of the commission work without compensation, as well as many people on boards, schools, in some councils on municipalities, cities and commissions work without compensation. There's a special question here about the status of the municipalities. We feel that the interests of the municipalities are not sufficiently represented, or that you have not paid enough attention to what the needs of the municipalities are. We have also given amendments to these members relating to the obligations of local administrations that have city status, i.e. which do not have city status, and we have proposed an amendment that implies that in the coming period and municipalities that have more than 30,000 inhabitants commit themselves to drawing up plans or spatial plans, because we believe that this is a roof document that will give them the opportunity and opportunity to direct their development and potentials correctly. We are absolutely sure that several members of the law have just been done for a water project and for the great lobbying of very powerful people you have popularly called tycoons. I call on all MPs and the general public to pay attention to the article. 53a. and Article 135(3), which is related to Article 102, paragraph 9, which gives an opportunity for the land that may have been purchased in another purpose to now be brought into custody without any major procedure and to make investments that could not be made so far. With regard to how many members of the law have been changed in relation to the previous 2009 law, given that it is giving up the design documentation, I believe that the MPs who spoke today are right to make a new law that will deal with only the matter of planning and that what the minister said should be separated, some other areas and regulated by the laws of their operation. I think that this attempt through this law today is somewhere in public, that with the accusations of the predecessors in some way gets an alibi for what is done and leaves room for all the bad effects that will surely be seen in the next period of application of this law, very incorrect. I think it's precisely the purpose of work and of this government leadership and people in the Assembly to find the best answers through common experience. You will see, dear Minister, along with your associates, that all the amendments we have made to this bill, and there are over 50 of them, that we have invested them with the best will to make certain things better. For example, the lack of a united procedure, where it is said – if there is no response from public institutions or companies, etc., that it will stop, or that it will stop the case. There's no telling what's going on with the case. Is the case waiting to be resolved on this basis or will another person be replaced or will the proceedings continue? We have proposed that the administration proceed in any case, with the same period of 15 days and that a solution be found to respond to the investor. What's worrying about all this is that, I don't think you've seen enough of the capacity of institutions at both local and republican level. If you haven't seen enough catastra capacities in some place, you'll immediately be in a situation where the system falls, so we can't meet our obligations under this law. I think the effects of this press release, the fear that is going through Serbia, and these people's fears that they're going to go into misdemeanor proceedings and reporting can be a very high risk to these activities. So, I suggest that first, through pilot projects... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14966	You've turned yourself off. No one could turn it off. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14967	How much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14968	You've got two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14969	I urge both you and your associates to force yourselves to, no matter what criticism...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14970	I'm sorry, Mr. Markovic, I'm told from the Service you have half a minute left.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14971	Is it half a minute with these interruptions or off-limits?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14972	No, when it was broken, it was 19 and a half minutes. You've got half a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14973	So, to find a way to give systemic and legal support to the construction industry, how to back up the construction home operation, how to solve the problems that local administrations have with international tenders, with international donations, with international procedures. We have very bad experience in these jobs. How can a subcontractor in the tender system and in the labour system be resolved? I think these issues require very serious discussions, answers and require special laws to deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14974	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has Professor Zorana Mihajlović, vice president in the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14975	You know, I've been listening to you and now I could fit you for an hour, because it seems to me that you either didn't read or you didn't understand, but I'll be brief, and then, I guess after this afternoon, we'll talk about the details. Let me start with those plans first. I don't really know where you found it in the law to give up the planning file? That's not true. The other thing is, what's even more important, so if there's no plan, there's no license. It's true that within 12 months, a plan must be made. For your information, since you have also provided incorrect information, spatial plans exist in local self-government, and there is no plan for detailed regulatory regulation in 25% of local self-government. So that's the only thing missing and that's what local self-government is gonna do. Also, the construction ministry has provided money in the budget to help local self-government finish it too. I didn't understand lobbying powerful people for members of the law. I'll tell you right now, it may have been for a while, but it doesn't exist anymore. You mentioned it at the very beginning, so-called. Dulic's law. Let me tell you, God forbid we keep doing this law, because under that law we're 186 on the World Bank list. There are only three states behind us. These three states currently have some kind of civil war, so they're behind us. So we're the last virtually in what's called "duing business". I'm not going to read now, but this is a list of everything that's a problem, exactly the Law on Planning and Construction, which is why we're 186 out of 189 observed states. You say, "The Space Planning Agency" and link it to giving up plans, etc. I'll tell you that the first estimate says that direct savings will come from the fact that this agency will not exist as an agency but will be within the Ministry of Construction where the Spatial Planning Sector already exists and it's absolutely ridiculous that there are three places in the same thing. So the annual savings will be 400,000 euros. I think it's a significant saving, and what's called preparation, co-ordination and monitoring of building sector competence plans will be concentrated. One interesting thing about this agency is that they have a budget for planning and monitoring projects just for that part of about 70 million dinars. At the same time they give the project, these projects are mostly wrong. So, according to the shortened procedures, they discuss calls, they take private homes, they make plans that are mostly completely wrong, nobody controls them, they're the agency, and they still take serious money for it. I'll give you an example of a plan of a specific purpose area for Pojatu – Preljina, plans of a specific purpose area in which are designated locations for mini power plants. So it's all wrong. We think that just by entering the ministry and joining what's called spatial planning in the ministry, we're going to be much more efficient. These are the most important things you have mentioned and which I am obliged to say because of the citizens of Serbia. As for the law and whether it could have been a new law, then, in the first quarter of next year, we'll have the Law of Conversion. It will certainly be in the coming period to talk about a special new law on construction and on a new law on planning, and then we will say that we have finally circled what is called planning and building, that is, construction. I wouldn't say anything further. I'm sure during the afternoon, I'll explain the details to your associates.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14976	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic. Here you go. Jovan Markovic, from the scene? ) On what basis do you think you have the right to a replica? You don't have a chance. Here you go, Mrs. Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14977	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are talking about a very important bill, important because it leads to solving problems in urbanism and construction which is evident that in practice there are many years ago in Serbia and have led to the fact that the construction sector is in a major crisis and, unfortunately, continues in the direction of falling construction activities, that the number of building permits issued is very small and that in the last five years it is becoming smaller and that I am not talking about how many construction workers have lost their jobs in the past years and that once construction was involved in a gross social product with between 10 and 11 percent, and that this participation is also a very small percentage. Also, the fact that Serbia is at 182th place, according to a report by the World Bank's Global Competitiveness List, the average waiting time for a construction permit to be issued for 240 days, is sufficient reason to change something in this area. It is important that government representatives analyzed, looked at and defined all the problems in this area and implemented the solutions to these problems in the draft of this law. As I have already said, one of the biggest causes of the low investment climate rating in Serbia is the long deadline for obtaining a building permit, which is not only caused by a poor legal solution, but also by an economic crisis that exists back a few years, then, by the way the administration works, by bureaucratic procedures, by unresolved property-legal relations, by lack of planning documents, by the impunity of public enterprises that issue consent for which they are competent, then, unscheduled cadastre, all of which you have already said that you have appeared as a problem which we are in such a large place, or almost the last place when it is necessary to obtain a building permit in question. Therefore, the primary objective of the proposal for this law is faster, more efficient and simpler procedures in areas governed by this law. What is essential and reformal is that the draft law provides for a united procedure aimed at establishing a simpler communication on the relationship between the investor and the authority of the administration, as well as a reduction of the whole process of obtaining a building permit, starting from the moment when the investor decides to build, until the moment when the building permit is issued, or used. However, although we do have a good legal provision now in this proposal for a law that leads to a faster building permit, nothing will change if the authorised officials to carry out these tasks on the issue of construction permits and public enterprises and all those who participate in the process of issuing building permits unless they comply with the law unless they respect the deadlines prescribed by law. You know, we had almost until today's practice that everyone who was interested in building days and days, spent hours and hours in front of the counter, that the officials, I had to use the term, unacceptably, and that they didn't inform investors at the beginning which documentation was needed or which the documentation was missing, but they were constantly returning some and some paper and thus avoiding deadlines, getting time and abuse of the law. This is why the provisions of this bill, which relate to the increased responsibility of all participants in the process of issuing a building permit, as well as the increased role of internal and external control in all segments, from obtaining consent to the issue of a building permit, or the use of a permit. The role of construction inspection is very important in the application of the Law on Planning and Construction and Regular Control of Active Construction sites, so that we would not return to the situation we had before, when inspectors dealt with certain other matters, i.e. control. the technical documentation for which they were not competent and have not performed the tasks for which they were both authorised and mandatory, which is the control of the site. If they'd done what they normally did in their job description, there wouldn't have been this many wrongly built objects. The introduction of a legal obligation of professional responsibility is very important. However, I fear that perhaps on the other hand it can pose a risk to small construction firms, for smaller companies involved in projecting or technical project control. It might be a good solution to predict a rock, if possible, mandatory insurance, so as not to damage small companies at the expense of large and powerful companies. The SPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment. Then, the provision of legislation relating to the main urbanist and its powers, I am also afraid that there may be a problem in those smaller cities, smaller towns, where they will not be able to have this institute, and the main urbanists are entrusted with the role of the main coordinator between all the bodies involved in the process of drawing up planning documents, as well as the role of the chairman of the planning committee, which, of course, should be so. However, it may be necessary to foresee the possibility that for those environments where there is no major urbanist, another person might be able to do those jobs. The provisions of the law also regulate public insight, i.e. getting to know the public about what the objectives and effects are, which is the purpose of drawing up the planning documents, which is a really good proposal of this law, because in this way citizens will have the opportunity to declare, i.e. supplying and making suggestions or objections at an early stage of planning and thus affecting the planning solutions. You know, we've had a really great dissatisfaction with citizens that they've never been given the opportunity to influence their suggestions on the solution to the space they live in before. Also, a good legal solution is the introduction of urban cohesion, as this prevents abuse of arbitrary parcels, especially on the edges of our cities. The fact is that land policy directs the development of cities and affects the way land is used, which is a non-renewable resource and of strategic importance for each country. All investors interested in future construction must be very interested in what Article 97 provides. A proposal for this law, which relates to the payment of compensation for the construction land. The termological harmonisation has been carried out with this article, and that is not a problem, it is now a contribution to the construction land. It is important that many benefits have been introduced for investors, in the sense that they can pay for the wars, that they have a discount if they pay a fee at once in full. However, what I am interested in, and perhaps I did not understand, the proposal for this law provides for the amount of compensation for the construction land to be paid when multiplying the value of squares of dwellings in the new building with the total net square of the building that is built and multiplied with the coefficient of purpose and the coefficient of the zone in the unit of local self-government on whose territory is built. The question is, what does the net surface do? Does the net surface make up only squares of apartments and corresponding corridors or the net surface make up both garages and traffic and dumps? I asked this question because there were abuses in some local self-governments, perhaps, and so the garage space and the space of the traffic used in the residential buildings were also accounted for, and it was largely increased by the amount of compensation, because they are calculating the price for garage space, for example, as well as the cost of living space. I think one of my colleagues said that this contribution to the construction of some of the municipalities would be damaged because it would be much smaller. I think this applies to smaller communities, smaller municipalities, and there will be a problem in larger cities, because the bill provides for the highest amount of compensation per meter of a square object, which is built, to be limited by law, to a level of 10% to 15% of the average shadow of a square metre. Why do I say it might be a problem in bigger cities? It'll be a problem, because there'll be less compensation in smaller cities. So far, at least some of the information I have available, that fee was about 5%, between 4%, 5%, 6%, of the total average price of the square, 10%, 15% would be a major burden for investors. I'm saying again, maybe my calculations aren't right. Maybe it's just a matter of economists. I think it'll put a lot of weight on them, if that's the case. I'm sorry if I was wrong. Also, when it comes to setting up construction land, it is very important to prevent irresponsible investors who have been irresponsible so far or are planning to be irresponsible, who have not paid compensation for the construction land, paid one or two wars and ended it all. You know that debts to Belgrade alone for the construction land are slightly greater than 11 billion dinars, by investors who have already sold apartments and business premises and emigrated them. At least there was a rule, or there was, that if you don't pay or deliver evidence of a paid fee, you can't get a building permit, or a used permit. Without the permission, neither the facility, the apartment, or the business space can be registered, which means that in this way the citizens, the purchasers of the apartments, are damaged, but the state is also damaged. When it comes to the provisions of the laws relating to the exchange of construction land, the bill, I don't know whether, by chance or perhaps intentionally, for some reason, it didn't include cooperative property as an equal form of property with both public and private. We believe that it is of existential importance for housing cooperatives that the amendment of the SPS parliamentary group, which is proposed to include and cooperative property, is to be declared by the provisions of the cooperative law relating to the property of cooperatives, otherwise abandoning this property... Also, an important issue that has caused a lot of controversy in previous years is the issue of conversion, i.e. turning the right of use into property rights in addition to compensation. We have heard from the minister several times that the issue of conversion will be resolved by half of March, if I understand correctly next year, by a special law, and that investors, interested in construction, will be able to build on land on which they have the right to use a special law that regulates the issue of compensation conversion. Does this mean that investors, who get permission to build and start building, will not have to pay for conversion when the law is passed? In that case, if they do not pay, they will be in a privileged position in relation to those who are building after the adoption of a special conversion law which, I suppose, will determine some compensation as an obligation to convert the right of use into property rights. When it comes to the concept of recovery, which is covered by this law, it is not defined to resuscitate the glide as a natural elemental accident. We think it would be good, given that we have recently been faced with the severe consequences of this phenomenon, that this definition may also have to be covered by the resolution of the glider in terms of: what skating sites, which technical documentation is needed for their recovery, who issues a permit to resuscitate the gliders, bearing in mind that the slides do not only appear on building, or built land, but also appear in forest, agricultural, road infrastructure, etc. With all the suggestions that I have made well-intentioned, it is essential that this law be brought into practice and that it achieves the goal for which we bring it. The law is very good and good, and I'm really glad that, for the first time, one good analysis of all the problems that exist in construction and urbanism, and indeed in one good way, in almost 90% of the cases, you've done extremely well to solve the problems you've seen, and that's a great advantage of this law, a great advantage for construction and urbanism in the coming period. It is important that the law achieves its goal, which is a simpler procedure, faster obtaining building permits, facilitating investors, facilitating citizens, enabling public participation in the process of considering planning documents at all levels of government and bringing construction back to life, returning to the level it once had, raising the investment climate in Serbia. The parliamentary group will support the bill in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14978	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14979	Just two things, which I specifically singled out, although there were a lot of useful suggestions. With regard to the compensation that you mentioned, or the contribution, which will now be a contribution, is paid only to useful areas. You mentioned the garages. That garage that's on the ground is being paid, but certainly much less, much lower, since the difference between living space and the garage. What's an underground garage, the law itself stipulates that it is not to be paid. The issue of property and compensation will be regulated by a special regulation. As far as the rink is concerned, you're absolutely right and should be and be in law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14980	The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14981	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Amendment to the Law on Planning and Construction, which is ahead of us, certainly represents one of the major steps forward on the path to reforms launched in Serbia. The Law on Planning and Construction, which is still in force today, unfortunately, came into force in 2003 and, above all, brought with it an extremely complicated procedure, then a huge price that the citizens had to pay, to legalise, or pay a building permit for their facilities, and, worst of all, they introduced corruption to a large door in this area, in the area of urbanism. I have to add that I'm sorry that changes and additions to this law are going on today. Honestly, I'd rather have a whole new law go by, even if it was just a different name. Simply, for reasons to forget that Serbia had one such period, that we had legislation in one area, and that the law in the area was absolutely not respected. In addition to what I'm saying, there are so many illegal objects in Serbia, and what I'm going to point out is that out of a million and a half illegal objects in Serbia, 700 thousand of these objects have been built since 2003, and here. Also, what is very bad still, in the unfortunately valid Construction Planning Act, is that all the changes he has suffered, and there have been enough, were changes that did not represent a system solution, but only overcome the current problems. This is what I think is very wrong and the proposal to amend and supplement the Construction Planning Act represents exactly that, today's proposal that is ahead of us is a systematic proposal to solve such a serious problem as solving the problem of planning and building in Serbia. Serbia is now located in one of the most unfavourable places, i.e. foreign investors in the wide port are bypassing Serbia, and this is really no wonder, because according to the World Bank list, Serbia has been found this year, as we have already heard in 186 positions, which is the position of efficiency in issuing a building permit. Of course, many foreign investors bypass Serbia when it took 264 days to get one single building permit and that is for a warehouse in the best case when their land property was resolved and there was a plan document for that plot. There were just 18 circles, 18 circles of various procedures for obtaining various consents, various permits, and often people were able to stand on one counter and three times, to submit a request, to get permission, to get a connection. It's been a lot of times that until one of them gets their last consent in a row. They often ran out first, so they had to retrace certain consents. So every citizen in Serbia who wanted to build an object must first of all prepare mentally for a long-term and painful procedure, to prepare that the next year must leave his commitment to work and spend his time waiting in front of various counters. And also, what was, unfortunately, I can say now is the usual procedure, let's say when you stand in front of a counter, so the clerk on that counter changes the procedure, so I'll mention the one you've always missed, that you've always missed one piece of paper, not to mention worse cases when you've lost the whole thing. What was also an extremely bad practice, and what was simply a public secret in our urbanisms and local self-government was that people who worked in urbanism, people who worked in inspections, people who were supposed to enforce that law to their friends and relatives, when they encountered some problems to legalize, to get permission for their facility, they advised them to build and free no one will touch you and you will legalize after your object. You'll see that they keep moving deadlines so that in such a way you can solve your subject more easily. Unfortunately, that was the case, and unfortunately for that reason, there were primarily so many illegal buildings in Serbia, and unfortunately this is exactly the situation that led Serbia to 186 positions on the World Bank's list in order to be effective in issuing a building permit. As we've heard, the only ones worse than us are Syria, Libya and I think another African state and they're in some kind of civil war. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on Planning and Construction, which is now in front of us, of course the most important change is a united procedure, which means, in fact, one counter. By adopting this law, citizens will be teaching all their demands on one counter, on that same counter they will get their permits and their connections, so they won't have to tour more from now on the subject from the counter to the counter does not go citizen from the counter to the counter. What also represents a very important newspaper is that all submissions will be taught at the electronic checkpoint, so there will be an electronic database. Among all holders of legal authority as well as the Central Register at the Republic level, which will, of course, lead the APR. That's very important, because that way is extremely transparent. Everyone in that chain will be able to see what the content of a particular object is, where the object has stopped and who eventually has not issued any consent, and he has had time to issue that consent. What is also important in the paper is that all those who exercise authority have deadlines to act on them and have the right to launch an administrative dispute in charge of a joint debate manager, has the obligation to initiate an administrative dispute against the one who did not seek consent issued within the deadline. If he doesn't, the leader at the republican level will initiate proceedings against him, which is certainly serious about this procedure. In short, I will try to explain what these are all newspapers, which are steps prescribed by this new draft Law on Planning and Construction. First of all, I have to say that this law does not concern the property itself on land and that what is basic and when it starts to issue all the permits, it means that every owner, i.e. the investor must be the owner or user of a particular plot on which he wants to work. It's a prerequisite for getting any permits. The first step to be defined by this law is the location conditions. In order for the investor to get the location conditions on that counter I mentioned earlier, the law and the idea solution are in place. These are the two only papers needed for him to hand over, everything else by the public authority to obtain amongst himself, among other competent authorities. The deadline for obtaining these location conditions is 25 days. Otherwise, the location conditions are, I can say freely, a personal map of the parcel itself or the parcel on which the investor wants to build. In the location conditions, there is a plan in which the designer should carry out technical documentation as well as only the connection to infrastructure facilities and only the flooring, i.e. the gauges of the facility. The next step when it gets its location conditions, the investor leaves, i.e. giving the designer a project to build it. The next step is just getting a building permit. Since the conditions he received have been developed by the investor project, he submitted a request for a building permit. During the course of the course of the project and project for a building permit, he will pay an administrative fee. At this time, the investor attaches evidence of an agreement to pay contributions to the building land, but at this point he is not obliged to pay this obligation and payment. The public authority holder is required to issue a building permit to the investor within five days. After that, the investor has an eight-day deadline before the construction works start to apply. This opportunity, in addition to the application itself, is supported by a project to carry out construction works and is hereby required to bring confirmation that he has regulated the payment of contributions to construction land. The last step in this sequence is to get the used permission. When the facility is finished, the investor is obliged to provide his facility with a technical examination, with the help of the commission or any other economic operator he chooses. Where a technical review is completed, the investor shall submit the requirements for the authorisation of use. In addition to this request, the project of the state of play as well as the elaborate on geodetic works and all those underground installations located on the facility shall be attached. The competent authority shall issue, within five days, a valid authorisation, to issue that same use permit to the investor, to the construction inspection and to provide, under official duty, a catalogue of immovableity which, once again under official duty, has a 30-day period for that facility to be registered. Next thing you know, next to this complicated procedure, which is now the legal proposal, we are shortening the next thing that has changed, which was previously extremely complicated and bad for the citizens of Serbia, is to pay compensation for construction land that is now called a contribution to pay for construction land. As for the very procedure that the former law prescribed, it was that he gave rights to local self-governments, to set the price of the building land on their own. We often had the opportunity to go up to 300-400 euros per metre of a square building, which you will agree, was very much, and on the other hand there was a lot of disproportionateness between the municipality and the municipality in Serbia about the very price of paying these permits. There was also a lot of disproportionateness between paying the price for commercial and between paying the price for housing. Although this is certainly the income of local self-government, we have had the situation that, although Serbia's foreign investors have been going around for the past few years, we have had the opportunity that because of the large number of illegal facilities, there has also been no inflow into local budgets because there has been no construction, so there has been no inflow from these funds. We can take an example that previous years have been legalized, i.e. only 10% of the facilities on this day are a million-and-a-half, which means that only 150,000 has been legalized as long as it's not legalized for 10 years, that only 10% of the building permits have been issued. You can imagine what that revenue would be for local self-government, what all local self-government could do with that income. What makes the new law is that it limits the compensation for editing, or supplementing the construction land, and that this fee cannot be higher than the average of one to six and that it is, in fact, 10 to 15% of the average price of squares of newly built objects. What I also wanted to mention is a matter of conversion and I'm glad that it was left aside this time, because it's not an area that can be solved quickly and overnight. It is certainly necessary to examine all the effects and all the analyses of this process, so I agree that it is necessary to adopt a new regulation that will regulate this area, but that solution that this law adopts, which is that any user on the land can be the owner of the facility, or can build, I believe that it is good that it is offered. Also, what is good that this law passed, and what was before a problem was the lack of legal acts in Serbia, practically earlier, unless you had a specific urban project for a specific plot, you couldn't build on that plot. You practically had a situation, as if your country had been nationalized to you. This proposal is now changing, and such a measure is being taken that simple urban plans should direct rather than slow down construction. What's also important to say is that all sublegal acts will be brought in by February 15th. Of course, most of us are ready to pass now that this law is applied. Also, all sectoral laws are required to be passed, i.e. we received a promise that all sectoral laws will be passed in the first quarter of next year. I want to repeat once again that I'm really sorry that this isn't one new law right now, but just for the reasons we want to forget that this old man ever existed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14982	Thank you, Mrs. Rakic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 80, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws and other acts on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honored and People's MPs, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a regular break of one hour and continue at 3:15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14983	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Minister is a little late. Is there any one of the reported who wants to speak even though the minister is not present? No, I don't. Then we'll wait, in a few minutes he'll be here. Mr. Bauer, since you're the first on the list of speakers, do you want to discuss even though the minister is absent? (John Bauer, from the place: "No, I'll wait for the minister." All right, we'll wait then. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14984	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, a respected minister, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, my fellow Social Democratic Party of Serbia MP, Branka Bosnjak has already spoken of this law from the corner of the profession, so I will try to give a review that will be through a slightly different vision. When we talk about this law, or about the Law on Planning and Construction, we can talk about the effects that can be achieved, or about the effects we expect to achieve by applying it, but we can also talk about the missed effects because of its non-performing or because of its untimely adoption. The first conclusion that is imposed on us when we look at the current situation, which is essentially characterized by the lack of adequate legal regulations, is that our construction industry is restored, but I would also say that there are some other branches which, I say, are based on the construction industry, like. The construction industry. The loss created by Serbia's economy, Serbia's citizens and Serbia's gross domestic product is almost impossible to measure, but there are therefore a number of parameters on which we can see what damage the construction industry is in the first place, some direct damage. Again, the indirect damage, which is viewed as being reduced by the inflow of investments, is something that is quite difficult to measure. So, let's say, we have the results of a recent survey, which was done on a fairly large sample of construction industry companies, which showed that from 2012 to 2014, so in the previous three years, or almost three years, we had a loss in the construction industry, because of jobs that were not done at all, or because of some jobs that were unfinished, of three billion euros and that we lost 65,000 jobs because of these missed and unfinished jobs. If there are certain doubts about this three-billion-euro figure amongst the professional public, which I can understand, because that amount was obtained by some kind of interpretation from those results that were obtained on the basis of research into this sum that 65,000 jobs were lost, then indeed independent experts who had absolutely nothing to do with this research, and I think it is clear to everyone what it means for Serbia at this point 65,000 jobs. Another worrying figure is that the value of the construction works carried out by the Serbian construction operation in the third quarter of 2014 compared to the same period in 2013 was lower by 20.7%. I also think that the data that we need to imagine, which shows in fact the state of the construction industry in Serbia today, is that the contribution of the construction industry to GDP is only 4.2%, and that in OECD countries, the percentage is about 6.1%. Worse still, Serbia's construction industry has the potential to reach 7% if we are, and I believe we will consistently implement this law. Already somewhere in 2017, we can dramatically increase the contribution of the construction industry to GDP. We should not forget that until 20 years ago the construction industry was the pride of the Serbian economy and was the source of a major foreign exchange inflow for our country. For the direct consequence of such an inadequate relationship with the construction industry, we have something that you, Madam Minister, have mentioned, as well as some colleagues and colleagues, and I would say, you will not blame me on choosing words, a disastrous placement in the 2015 Doing Business report that the World Bank is doing. Namely, we are placed in 186 places from 189 countries. First, because it takes time to obtain construction permits, it says, 264 days in Serbia, i.e. 16 procedures are required to pass to obtain a building permit. It seems even more important to me that I didn't hear anyone mention it here or maybe it did, but he didn't look back to that point, and that's the contribution of the cost of issuing a building permit to the warehouse. To understand viewers, the warehouse is something that the World Bank uses in this report as some kind of ethlon, or measurement unit based on a comparative analysis. So 25.7% is a contribution to the cost of building a warehouse. Let me tell you, I've done a review of that list for most of the comparable countries with Serbia, and I've never seen anything like it. So in most comparable countries, this percentage is below 1%, possibly a few percent, and nowhere in two digits, especially 25.7%. In addition, there are official data that say that in the EU the cost of issuing a construction permit is five times smaller with us, and that in OECD countries this difference goes up to 20 times. As far as the countries of the region or the countries of the former Yugoslavia are concerned, I must tell you that this list, when it comes to issuing construction permits, is only talking about that part of the working business list, the nearest Croatia that is in 188 places and Montenegro is 138 places, but with one remark. They have set out before us to do these serious reforms, i.e. since 1 January 2014 in Croatia, the new Law on Planning and Construction has been in force. So they can hope for how long next year to be far above us when it comes to doing business. I will not mention at all other countries of the region far ahead of us, in 103 places Hungary, Bulgaria at 101, Slovenia 90, Macedonia 89, Greece at 88, etc. Everyone has far better results than us, even countries in the region. It seems to me that, at least for me, was the most devastating fact that they measure, practically, on the basis of one zero to 100 scale, what is the result in different areas. Then they have some summation. When it comes to issuing building permits, our score is on that scale from zero to 129. The result of Croatia, which is only eight places above us is 45. So even 60% to fix our score, we can only climb eight places. This shows how bad our result is and how seriously we must work on reforms and implement them. As for the effects of the amendments and the addition of this law that lies ahead of us, there have been a lot of words about them, so I'm not going to repeat now what my colleagues said, I'm going to focus more on what I mentioned in the previous discussion. Only by amending and supplementing the laws, concerning these problems that we have in the list of "Duing Business" of the World Bank, we first reduce, what we said, the number of counters to one, or the number of procedures from 16 to one. The second thing, according to the reports and the estimates of independent experts, NGOs, the number of days needed to obtain a building permit, they observe it a little wider, so that means getting a building permit and getting and getting a book, rights, it will reduce it to 54 days. That's why it's a little more than you mentioned. But from 264 to 54, that's 210 days less, or, if you want, 80% less. Of course, this cost of issuing a building permit will also be reduced, because we will lift the parafiscal charge that is currently in force, and we will introduce one contribution whose amount will be controlled. They will not be able to determine it by local self-government at an arbitrary amount, nor will they be able to dispose of it as they please, and they will say that they favor someone by giving them permission not to pay for it, and they do not do it to someone else. So it's going to be arranged in a pretty good way this area. Of course, whenever we make some legal solutions that require our public administration to work faster and more efficiently, which is normal always and for every praise, there is a danger that in one part of the law we will face that people – which is fast, it is also short. That's why I think it's very important, but you said that eight sublegal acts have already been adopted and that by 15 February 2015, absolutely all sublegal acts will be adopted and that these other accompanying activities will also be carried out. So we have until March 1st, ever since that part of the law takes effect, we have been fully prepared. I think it's very important, because when it's done so quickly, and it has to be done so fast to be competitive even in the region, not to say more seriously among the more developed countries in Europe, it's very important that this inability to complete control, because of the short process, to replace one of the quality sublaws and quality monitoring of the whole process. Just to see how much time I have left, so I know I'm not getting too cheap. I think it's terribly important just because we don't have to repeat cases. The one that, I think, seems quite current at the moment, which is the problem facing the City of Belgrade, which is due to the very bad 2009 legal solution. The city of Belgrade has a problem that investors cannot charge certain costs worth 40% of the city's budget, annually. It's something that's inadmissible, and it's something we have to prevent from happening in the future, otherwise we're going to completely destroy our local self-government. It was also heard in public that it might have been better to make a whole new legal solution, not to go on amendments and amendments to the law, to get a better quality law and to make matter more consistent. It seems to me that, given the objective circumstances, which is that first we waited too long to pass a serious law in this matter, we had it, but unfortunately it didn't prove to be good. The other thing is that we have serious investor pressure, or if you want, worse, we have investor departure because the law is bad and, in the end, a very difficult economic situation. I think it's quite enough and justifiable parameters for this law to be passed at the moment as amendments and additions to the law. In case the ministry decides in some future to pass a whole new law, I'm pretty sure they'll have a very big support in the National Assembly for that. After all, we will have a new set of laws or amendments and additions from this area at the beginning of the year. We have an electronic building permit in place. So we introduce order completely into the area of construction and in some ways we give the construction sector wind in the back or if you want to give them wings. So basically what we're doing today is we're starting a process that's going to take several months, but at the same time we've been waiting for quite a number of years. From what I have said, it is clear that the SDPS parliamentary group will support the amendment and addition of the Law on Planning and Construction in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14985	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14986	This law will not be supported by New Party MPs, and the sounds of beautiful jungle creatures can follow my speech freely. Why won't he get it? Because it's an amendment to one bad law. I completely agree that the 2009 law was on the verge of disaster and there is no doubt about it. But changing that law with 50% changed members won't make this near disaster any better. There was plenty of time for a new government, two and a half years almost three, to pass a new law. That wasn't so hard because in recent Serbian history there was an excellent law that was passed in 2003, it was the same name as this one, and it probably led a colleague from the SNS to make a mistake in assessing that a bad law was passed in 2003. We now have amendments to the 2009 law. So it was probably a lapus, I agree. The law unfortunately had a very short period of application because soon a new authority came to apply it in the worst possible way, or it applied it wrongly. The law was changed relatively quickly, and before that it was not applied first of all because it respected all specificities of Serbia at that time. Probably a particular reason for that is that he had criminal provisions that were very serious. The law envisioned, the one from 2003 to a year in prison with no alternative in fines for the one who starts construction without permission. It was a special provision that was not common but should have put order into planning and construction in Serbia. That didn't happen, which is what some media who were in charge of building a few months after the authorities took over began to do by breaking that law, but not to go back to it. Therefore, the law is bad and we will try to fix it with 17, 18 amendments, but I recommend that if the intentions of both the ministries and the government are sincere to draft a new law because this one will definitely not be good. You'll also see by our amendments that you've made a lot of failures, some of them are technical, some of them essential. It was hard to write amendments because of the complexity of the whole process. What are the basic objections? First, too much regulation and centralization in decision-making in this area. It is coming back again, i.e. the affirmative part of Serbia's spatial plan, which is a conservative, outdated view of this area. The replacement in the 2003 law was a strategy for the spatial development of Serbia, which is one much broader and more modern document that gives more freedom to investors and local self-government and these regional centres, of course, along with respect for it, without being able to enter into anything that is against the law. We have too much regulation today, so I think that in 28 days' time it's going to be as real as it was under the previous law it was 31 days. There's a huge procedure, there's still a lot of paper. Now that instead of investors someone from the municipality is going to run all over those counters, I'm not sure it's going to improve that period of time significantly. We have, for example, in Article 17, which you suggest legalization of "Biograda na Voda", this project that was initiated under the law, that is, contrary to the law. It reintroduces projects of importance for the Government-defined Republic, which is a completely wrong thing, cannot be one commercial shopping centre with casinos, with malls, with no idea what, to be a project of national interest. It's an arbitration that won't take us far. Therefore, I think it is very important that this or some subsequent government, which I hope will soon be formed, prepare one serious law, and an excellent example of this is the 2003 Law and the abdication of this law would be enough to create very good conditions for housing in Serbia. Of course, even the best law will not in itself launch investment and there are many other problems, but it is not the topic of today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14987	Mrs. Mihajlovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14988	Thank you for your comments. I expected a lot more comments when you say so many laws are wrong. It didn't come well in five minutes, but when you first talk about this 2003 law, he was theoretically great and applied for six years, and in those six years, he did, he did... (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Formal, yes. )......................................................................................................... How formal? The law is either applicable or not. So, in 2003, it was brought in, and in 2009, it was brought in the following. During that period between 2003 and 2009, the same number of illegally built objects that occurred between 2009 and today. So we're free to say that it almost didn't apply, which is what you said after all. Is something going to be settled in 28 days, I'm sure it will, because this law differs from the law of the previous one that spoke of the 31 days, because we have a united procedure, which is precisely the hierarchy, which is the responsibility known, which is how much punishment anyone will be if they don't do something. You mentioned a year in prison, in the Criminal Code it still stands, even more than a year, as far as I know, which was also not applied in the previous period. I think it depends on all of us together whether this law will apply and I believe that if there are already working groups in cities that are beginning to work lightly with local self-government, I think it depends heavily on the strength of the government. This government is strong enough and strong enough to implement and enforce the law. I think there must also be a clear hierarchy of who's responsible for what, or who's responsible for what when one of these laws is implemented. When you mention Belgrade on water and national interest, I think that for this country, national interest is every investment that can lead to the employment of new people, leading to hundreds of millions of euros in new investments. I believe it's certainly the interest of each and every one of us. (Zoran Zivkovic throws out of place, but he doesn't understand. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14989	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, don't throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14990	We'd be happy to take a look at all your amendments. I agree with you that this is not an ideal law, but it is a big step for Serbia. So we can implement it, but it's also much more important that next year, therefore, we have a special law on construction, special planning, and that we have a law on conversion. Then we're just going to put that point, and of course the law that's already going now, and the Ministry of Finance is proposing it, and that's the state law, about the cataster that's now in change, plus building policy. I agree with you that it can be fixed, but far from being bad. I'd love to, when they're amendments, to talk about every amendment in particular, I don't think you're right, but we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14991	You must want a replica, Mr. Zivkovic? No, no, you have no basis for replication. You made your point, and the minister only commented on some of your arguments about the law that you consider not good, so I don't see any reason for replication. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14992	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unlike my previous fellow farmer, I will uphold this law. To be honest, I expected that, given that there are few of us, there are two of us, however, the previous one was only for a certain time and I expected to say more about building in the country, about the combination of traditions and principles that this law offers, to be protected in a certain way and traditions, especially in the construction of the country, and to enable even regional development, which is what this law is trying to regulate. I have listened carefully and heard of illegal construction, and it amazes me, given that someone was on the list of party presidents who built the Ada bridge without a building permit and proper documents. So someone who built such a capital facility, without the necessary documentation, for such large and expensive money, someone who connected two local communities in Belgrade, someone who made "Belgrade in the fog", is now suddenly against building "Belgrade on the Water" in a regular way. I was a little surprised, since the previous speaker was also on the list of people who did such things, or who built without the necessary documentation, such a capital project, which is called the "Ada Bridge". With this in mind, since I come from one environment, I can say that the vice president of the same party whose list he was selected made in the city of Indjia in the centre of business residential space of over 30,000 square meters, without a building permit, was an object without the use of permission when the municipality bought thousands of squares in a building that was illegally built. So, in this municipality, many applications were filed to farmers for the construction of boilers, baskets, sheds, pigs, chickens, after the amendment and addition of the Law, the Criminal Law, many applications were filed to the peasants because they wanted to deal with agriculture in these facilities, but no criminal charges against municipal officials were launched, and the president of the municipality was the vice president of the party on whose list my colleague of agriculturals was elected, although without a building permit the building facility was built of a business-room of 30,000 square metres. His neighbor, Mr. Vukadinovic, was embezzled, so since he didn't give himself lightly, then they buried him alive...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14993	Please, I know, let's discuss the law. It will be much more useful and more meaningful to us now than to convince who did it, let the competent authorities force it out, and let them exorcise, I guess one day they'll push it out to bring it in. If this law works out and we do it, then we reach our goal. Please, I'm simply asking you as a man to leave now who's doing what, we don't have any of that. Let's turn around for a better time if possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14994	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I didn't hear you very well because your microphone wasn't set up, but I understood that you warned me that I wasn't in the dark. If building an illegal building of 30,000 square meters in the centre of Indjia is not a good enough topic for a law on planning and construction that wants to prevent illegal construction and if everyone said, even the minister, as well as a million and a half buildings that were built without a building permit, illegal buildings, as everyone else was in the topic, so am I. But if you don't allow the talk of the violations that have been committed, then I won't even talk about the fact that the battery recycling plant was built on Indji's Waterway, by the spatial plan of the Waterfall, and then some time ago, we had it that the Indjia didn't have enough quality water. But if you forbid me to talk about this illegal construction, that a watershape factory for recycling lead batteries was built, I'm not going to talk about it, so I'm going to talk about this law having to put together a little bit more tradition, regional development, and that's what this is about. So, I advocate that a special regulation that will be adopted, accompanied by a clear explanation of what facilities for agricultural production can be made on agricultural land and that this land is not built as well. With this in mind, Mr. Chairman, I must tell you that the EU insists that farms are in future being made out of populated areas and that existing farms are being moved out of populated areas. Since regulation plans or basics do not cover land outside rural areas, I have to ask the minister to clarify clearly and to treat farm construction as complementary agricultural production on agricultural land and to make clear to local self-government that in order to build farms, pigs, chickens, apply that part of which I think exists in the Law on Agricultural Land, so that they are compatible with both laws, that simply the farmer who wants to build a farm on agricultural land as once made salami, so I said in a combination of traditions, that it would be possible, without costing us as if we were building a hotel "A" categories outside the inhabited area. So, to make it as simple as possible that we don't have to wait to do a new plan by the Commission for plans, then publicly see, so, someone who would define himself to be dealing with livestock and who would like to build a farm outside the populated place, he would have to, according to what some local self-government insist on waiting first to do the regulatory plan, for that to be done by the Commission for plans, need public insight, have to be published, some public debates go, eventually need two meetings of the Assembly of the Municipality, so someone who would start building a farm outside the populated place in accordance with European standards, so he would have to wait at least a year to start the job. In this regard, I also understand the environmental impact, and therefore I urge the Ministry of Construction and the Ministry of Agriculture to make several models of typical farms that will satisfy the conditions to be applied to such farms and that those who want to invest in livestock farming on their agricultural land use such examples, i.e. such inspection farms, can build this with very little documentation to develop livestock. With that in mind, Mr. Chairman, let me warn you, that this very important topic, that we export three and a half million tons of corn, to export countless quantities, hundreds of thousands of tons of other livestock food, and that we can feed almost a billion pounds of cattle in the equivalent of living scales two billion. So, we have a perspective to make that result in livestock, but given all these laws that have been passed so far, we had no right to build farms with European standards outside the settlements, because local self-government has treated us like we're building hotels of the largest "A" category. I'm saying this for the following reasons, because statistics say that over the last three years, we've lost 130 thousand sows because the regulations haven't changed in time. With that in mind, I have to say, we've lost about two million head of potential youth and this year we've imported more for the first 10 months than we've exported, over 350,000 live cattle, which is meat. So, for this we allocated over 50m euros we gave more for importing live boars and pig meat because it's very difficult to make a farm so that it meets European regulations because local self-government treats peasants when they create an object, an economic object, as if they're going to make a villa on Dedinj. That is why, Mr. Chairman, I have used the opportunity to talk about farms even though the Law on Planning and Construction is in force, and I am sorry that my previous fellow farmer did not talk about wineries, wine cellars, wine houses, etc., which should be made in vineyards, especially in those which the state with such high subsidies supported. I believe that this law will be an improvement, and this law is not the Holy Scriptures, and therefore I ask the Ministry of Agriculture to try to solve this problem for the sake of peasants and villages because it is in the principles of this law that, as once they were built, they are being sent to build farms now, that we can do it in accordance with European standards, that after that we do not have to and the existing farms to move out of populated places, so it is very difficult to persuade local self-government to coordinate their own planning acts and if they are harmonised, if they catch a little wider atar then it becomes a building land and it becomes a burden for farmers because taxes, i.e. taxes and taxes on such a kind of building land become significantly higher taxes on property than when it comes to agricultural land. With this in mind, I want it to be clear whether the villagers, under which conditions they can make farms on agricultural land and be treated as a supplement to agricultural production and that such instruction is given to all local self-governments to apply uniquely throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, since we have a situation that from local self-government to local self-government depends on whether you will be allowed to build or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14995	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14996	Thank you. I think it's great that you're talking about the village because this is the first time in the Law on Planning and Construction we're just saying that in one legitimate way, that is, how to legally build and in the country. That has not been the case so far with any Planning and Construction Act. Therefore, from now on we will have in the villages, there will be no more illegal construction. When you ask if you can build a farm, it's not a question of this law, it's absolutely certain that it can, but it has to meet those other conditions, which are above all the conditions regarding environmental protection and impact assessment studies, all that is necessary to build farms. When you proposed the regulation, we'll see about it with the Ministry of Agriculture, you're absolutely right to define exactly what can be done when you mentioned the regulation with the Ministry of Agriculture. That's it. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: Turn me on. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14997	Marianne, on what grounds? (Marian Risticevic, from the place: Turn me on. The minister responded so nicely that I do not see the need for you to comment on anything now. I really can't see. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14998	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, I must be honest that we here today expected to be the Law on Planning and Construction, not supplementing the Law on Planning, given the fact that in the past few months, days, you've been pompously announcing this law. In the end, however, it is not so important that we concentrate on this law and point to all the shortcomings and advantages of this law. I think, like I said, it's much better that a new law was passed, because we all know how critical the previous law is. We all know how many additions this law has been, if I'm not mistaken, this is the third time that Serbia's Assembly has completed the Law on Planning and Construction since 2009. I fully understand the reasons for the adoption of these supplements, because given that we must comply with the laws, above all the EU and, of course, that the adoption of this law and the drive for greater harmonisation with sectoral laws. In addition, I think that this law has many interesting and positive solutions offered, but we do not see exactly what the consolidated text of the law will look like in application, because some of the procedures in this law are further extended as part of the planning of space instead of the concept of the plan, introducing an early public insight which, even so long, will extend the process of adoption by at least 15 days, and given what kind of administration we have and how long it will take for the administration to shape the answers to the observations and suggestions from that plan. Unfortunately, however, this law has not solved other problems that exist. Obviously, you have delayed other problems for new laws that regulate a different area such as land conversion and compensation, and you may also be able to build a form of property that does not know Serbia's Constitution. For example, it may be up to the investor's decision to start construction based on its usefulness after the final decision on the building permit, and then it will not be able to convert with the compensation of who will pay the increased costs and the lost profits in that case. I'm just going to remind you that there are all forms of property over building land, and above all, state, cooperative and private. Well, then how can anyone on a regulated utility with a conversion to build in this case? With this change you hurried, probably because of Beograda on Water, which I completely understand, given the fact that the government has accepted "Belgrade on Water" as something that is generally good for Serbia. The solutions offered will certainly, in some ways, come up with an analysis of the World Bank, because here some of my colleagues have talked about it all, and I think we're going to move some 10 seats on that scale. But unfortunately, we don't solve problems with the issue of these permits. Because obviously the question here is how the investor is going to build, what he needs in that case, is he needs to accept a project for construction, a contract for building land, and a payment for the same, the application of works, and only then will he start to work. However, according to this here, in addition to this law, we can see that there is no obligation for a construction permit to conclude a contract for the construction land, because it usually takes the longest and most expensive item, without proof of payment or at least proof of the first payment war. It's good in this law that you transfer responsibility to profession. So responsible engineers, but I'm afraid that the Serbian Engineering Chamber within which the court of honor, human and organisational and appropriate and essential, is ready for the application of this amended and updated law. Unfortunately, I don't think so. Because, certain exclusion of the administration and further intimidation of the applications and their responsibilities, you'll create additional congestion in the process of obtaining permits, which may take as, unfortunately, so far as it has been. In addition, I do not see that the Administrative Procedure Act will be out of application, both in the administration of the adoption of acts under this amendment and in addition to the law, as well as in other state bodies and institutions. This is likely to mean that this change through Article 134 that the provisions of other laws governing the issue will not apply these environmental regulations in a different way. So, the only law that covers it. By amending and supplementing the Law, you provided for about 30 sublegal acts by the Government and the Registrar, a member from that amendment and the addition of the Act to this effect by 15 February, and in certain cases by 15 October 2015. Personally, I fear it is necessary for these amendments to be amended and complemented by the Law to be extended and delayed by application, at least until 1 March 2015, because, given what our administration, who is all involved, I fear it will not succeed. It won't be possible for our local self-government, knowing how they are and how they're humanised, to bring all this. For this reason, I fear that this law, not eight days after its entry into force, should come into force, but at least from 1 March 2015. Although we are all fighting for the shortest deadlines and for the quickest application of this kind of law, unfortunately, I am afraid of exactly what I said, that our local self-governments are not qualified to implement this law on the ground itself. In the end, as far as this law is concerned, I think it will be brought to this Assembly, but if you accept our amendments that we have submitted, there are over 20, the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group will vote for this law. Otherwise, we'll be against this law. We think that through the amendments we have tried to improve the quality of this law and that through the adoption of the amendment it will certainly be faster, regardless of the fact that in this law authorisation is limited to 28 days, that this will facilitate and speed up the process of issuing licences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u14999	The word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15000	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed kiolage MPs, the Honorable Minister, as one of the representatives of the construction industry, I would like to commend this bill that is currently solving some of the many problems we have encountered daily, from getting various consent and permission to the beginning of construction. It is especially good that this law shortens deadlines for obtaining all consent and permits on one counter. My colleague, who is also a representative of our parliamentary group, has done well what we think as a parliamentary group of SPS and I do not want to repeat why these amendments to the Construction and Planning Act are good. I'm going to be a little more involved in construction and construction. Also, I want to dedicate my discussion to one member of the law, which is, in fact, article 133. The law. The 2009 Planning and Construction Act, Article 133, paragraph 6 provides that for hydropower plants and hydropower plants with a corresponding dam, power 10 and more megawatts and thermal power plants 10 and more megawatts and thermopower plants, heat plants, electricity 10 and more megawatts, as well as power lines and trafo stations charge 110 and more kilowatts, the construction permit is issued by the Ministry responsible for works of construction. The question arises – in whose jurisdiction the issue of a building permit is, or a solution to, the authorisation to perform works pursuant to Article 145. Laws for escorting facilities, for example: administrative buildings, porters, garages, bracelets, feeder channels and the like? I've run the Surdulic municipality since 2008, and now I'm the president of the Assembly. In the municipality of Surdulica we have the Public Enterprise "Vasinska Hydropower Plants", which has done four hydropower plants and has done a dam and for all these accompanying facilities of Surdulica municipality has issued since 2009 all the approvals and our construction local inspection has controlled the performance of these works. We in Surdulica municipality issued about 25 hundred building approvals, which legalized the facilities for the purposes of this company. But a month ago, we were denied one solution, and you signed it, a respected minister, that we were not as local self-government, nor to issue a permit, nor to control the works, and it was a waterway in the shore fortification and some other small works. My question and request is for these laws or sublaws to be dealt with. If this solution remains that you sent and annuled our solution, then we need all 25 approvals and solutions and legalization to undo it. I'll explain. Namely, "Vasine hydropower plants" have opened a tender worth 25 million dinars. They started work without a building permit and three buildings. When people saw it, they reported it to work without permission, filed a report. Now, in order for someone to iron out that application and not punish the responsible persons, then the ministry has annulled this solution, which I don't think is right, because as a party of the ruling coalition we're fighting to apply the laws, and whoever commits the offense should be responsible for it. I believe this solution, which you have annulled our solution, should be abolished. Surdulica municipality has filed a administrative dispute as far as it is concerned. So here it's important to solve the following objects. Another thing I want to say here is that some construction company, or company, would build and participate in tenders, I hope that even in our country, as we go forward, to build a new dam or a large facility, that the company registered in Serbia could perform such works, will have to own a 050 G1, license that says: "Build constructions". In order for one of our companies to get a license like this, we know that no such dams have been built in Serbia in the last 30 years, no such hydrocentrals, so I ask you to arrange that our construction operation can also get these licenses and participate, and not only foreign companies participate in such facilities. When I'm here about this problem, now some public companies use and abuse the Public Procurement Act and some small facility, whether it's a bracelet, a garage, a warehouse within a complex like the Đerdap hydropower plant or the Vlasin hydropower plant or Pirot, they put it in competitive documentation that you have to have a license that reads IO 50G1. A license like this in Serbia may have "Hydrotechnicals", which I don't know whether meets the conditions or maybe "Geosonda". Then this is the source of corruption, only one company can participate in a tender like this, for which there is no need, because no construction is done, but smaller crafts work is done. I know you're expedient, and I appreciate your energy in this field, and I hope this problem is resolved either by you or by us in the municipality to resolve it, because we're coming to a conflict. The best thing to do is to undo this solution that you have submitted, because we have betrayed it, and if not, give us a warrant so that we can undo all the solutions, and we'll see, but we'll continue to know who's responsible. Again, it also doesn't matter, and you cancel these solutions. The investor had to have a permit to build or resuscitate. Do we betray him as a local self-government or you as a ministry, he had to have permission. Registration of works in the municipality because the application of papers on one paper, where there are no papers on the building permit and on the performance of these works. So I ask you to take care of this problem and resolve it. As for helping our construction operation, I was also asked by my colleagues, since I knew that you would be here today and that you wanted to help, because the interest of both this country and all of us is to assist the construction operation, and I asked our prime minister to help us, too, when we had a meeting with construction firms. Here's a few suggestions how you can help the construction industry. One of them is paying value added tax, VAT, to influence as Deputy Prime Minister at the Ministry of Finance that construction companies pay VAT at the expense of the works carried out, not after the establishment of the invoice, because then construction companies, state and investors do not pay invoiced works, and we also need construction companies to pay taxes to the state. Another solution would be if we wanted our construction industry to work abroad, to help us issue bank guarantees. No construction company in Serbia is so strong that it could only carry out a bank guarantee that it participates in tenders abroad. The third thing should be, in the opening of a tender in the Public Procurement Act, conditions should be laid down so that both our companies and our companies can participate. I'll list the Clinical Center in Nis. One of the conditions to participate in this tender for my company and other construction companies was that the company had done, or company, a health facility worth 40m euros or more. It's not in Serbia. That's why strangers are working on our clinical centers. We take credit, but we pay. Influence these large projects, the conditions of the competition to adapt to domestic businesses. I want to tell you, one example whose tender is now under way. The school's implementation unit is currently a tender in progress, you can check this out, according to the Public Procurement Act we have to contribute balances or scoring. They're looking for a Skoring and it's looking for a Skoring firm to have BB plus. I'll have MPs, colleagues who do other things to get to know each other. So, according to our law, there's a very weak scoring, it's marked E, acceptable to D, good to C, very good to BB and excellent to A. It's okay to ask for a very good bonus or good. They're looking for BB plus. It's the same as when you have an average score at school 3.75, you're very good, when you have 4 you're very good, when you have 4.20 you're very good again. But they're not looking here -- very good, they're looking for BB plus. Believe me, I've checked that rarely any construction company can have BB plus. He may have a very good one, but BB plus no. So, this job that's worth it will get some foreign company, and our companies will be subcontractors again and will be even subcontractors. It's my insistence that you can from experience help our construction operation. As far as legalization of objects is concerned, we had the Law on Legalization. I'm going to re-emerge an example of a municipality like Surdulica. We have this Vlassin Lake, where we have about 500 illegally built objects, maybe more. People started doing projects and coming to the community to pay. However, former Minister Oliver Dulic, due to petty political points, came a new year, if you remember and said – legalisation will be free in Serbia. As of this moment, no one has ever shown up on the counter to come legalize their facility. Now people expect to get something free again. However, we know that the Constitutional Court has annulled, legalisation needs to be carried out, legalisation should be paid just as much as paid by the people who received the permits in the legal procedure. I just said, our parliamentary group will support this law. We've given a few amendments, I hope you'll support them, which are useful. We welcome the adoption of amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15001	The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15002	It would have been better if I hadn't heard of this neighborhood, about Lake Vlassin. So in the protection zone, there is no law in the first protection zone, Minister, nothing that can allow you to legalize objects. I'm talking about Lake Vlassin, and if it's the first zone of protection, and part of it is, and you got that information, there's no legalization. Anything else that isn't in the first zone of protection, anything that won't endanger people's lives, everything will be legalized. Second thing, what's the point? The goal is to stop with illegal construction, stop with tax evasion, stop with work on black. You're absolutely right about the construction companies. We plan, i.e. It's already done, therefore, a document of construction policy, to sit down with construction companies, so we do black and white lists, to see what's healthy, what can be joined and that the state for what's healthy stands behind these companies and helps them participate in both tenders and to do. You're right about VAT. What's important is to say, and in the beginning you started from that, about capital facilities, so over 10 megawatts, etc. We'll further specify, but it's very clear and legally stated what's following the facility, and what's part of the complex, part of the power plant. What's part of the power plant, you can't give yourself permission, but it has to be done by the ministry. What's following the facility is something that can be in the jurisdiction of local self-government. So getting that solution can't cancel the solution, but we need to see how everything else can be rightly solved. You mentioned licenses, too. It's capital facilities, I repeat. For them there must be large licenses or there is a possibility of joining companies to participate in certain jobs. It's the usual thing, and it should be the usual thing. What's really missing and it's not just you, it's all construction companies, it's a clear state view of what support the construction industry is, because it's not enough just to have the law and all that we're going to prepare. There must be and there will be country support for what is healthy so that construction can really take that step forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15003	Here, on what grounds? I'd like to ask the minister a question. No, he can't. There's no questions. You didn't get the word, I'm sorry. The minister will answer you later in the discussion of one of your colleagues. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15004	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that you say that, for the protection of the zone in which construction is prohibited, and there is no minister who can approve, promise or anything. I couldn't agree more. I will remind you that only one of your predecessors, Minister Velimir Ilic, who has now been with you in the government, has just allowed the Vruci lake to legalise, promised and enabled, although there is absolutely no legal basis for it. Here, that's just one example for you, where it was done by your colleague from your government. So, as you know, politicians promise a lot of things, and even those things that are against the law. At least that's what we learned from your government, unfortunately, and here are the students today and the previous days of the citizens of Majdanpek. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction was to be adopted, according to our regular procedure, in view of the scope of the amendments. We think that maybe it was a more adequate solution, to pass a whole new law, because we're considering that the number of members that are changing right now really... It seems to me that it might be more meaningful if we had brought some new law, in a regular procedure, rather than a speedy process, here in the Serbian Parliament. The law was also positively assessed by NAD and foreign investors, and the objections of professional associations were generally accepted. So, I have to say it. However, it seems to me that the key problem of construction in Serbia is simply not solved and I think it remains, as it is present. It is a fundamental lack of investment in infrastructure in Serbia. In addition to previously agreed credit arrangements for the construction of Corridor 11 and a couple of bridges that were previously agreed, other money for the building is not yet seen, is missing, and as everyone here knows, and today we have heard a lot about it from colleagues, indeed the momentum of the economy and the components of economic growth. We believe that without the construction sector growth, there will be no growth in the Serbian economy. Serbia recorded a 40% decline in the construction industry in 2013, although as a previous minister, I mention it again, Velimir Ilic promised to flourish after the amendment and addition of the Law on Legalisation and Elimination of the conversion provisions. We were here in the Assembly, we remember that. Here, dear colleagues, to remind you, there was nothing of it. The result is almost zero. Anyone who holds on to the truth will confirm this fact. Similarly, unfortunately, I'm afraid, it will be with this law. Why? The procedure was transferred to one counter. I think that's great. I think it is necessary, that Serbia is needed, but it is also easier for the investor and I think that it facilitates and potentially speeds up all procedures, potentially. Why? Because there remains a lack of functioning and fragmentation of state services in this area, a large number of competent authorities that are important for the functioning of this area lead to full red tape. These are state, local self-government, agencies, notaries, institutions, public enterprises, etc. Without investment in infrastructure and a new wave of housing, there is no growth in the construction industry and a shift from the current 4% to GDP, unfortunately. The housing cannot be recovered through pension and salary savings policy. At the same time, I use the opportunity to ask you – what about those subsidized apartments that Prime Minister Vukic announced would be able to buy for about 300 euros per square? Remember how much that was announced and what happened? I'm using your presence to hear what's going on with this project? I think it's such a pompous announcement to cut procedures to 28 days while independent analysts say two months is a real deadline, if the investor has the necessary documentation. This is where we come up with the fundamental problem of property legal relations that does not solve this law and which are the legacy of a system that has not worked for a very long time, and that is a fundamental problem. We have real outflows of optimism, like every time you bring us some legal proposal and every law is crucial and will bring us a rebirth. Unfortunately, that's not happening. I must tell you that, thanks to the measures implemented in this country, in 2010 and 2011, there were 85,000 workers working in Serbia and the fall that began in 2008 was halted, with great torment. With your coming to power, today construction works about 55,000 workers. So, 30 grand less. I'm not sure this is the correct information, but I'm asking you to deny me if I'm wrong. Since your government has extended the law on aid for construction, which was a lex specialis, I should now ask you – did you build anything under this law in the Republic of Serbia for two and a half years as long as you are in power? As for the conversion, which is quite mentioned here, I must say and ask you – how did the conversion stop the construction in Serbia? Give me some exact information. With this conversion, we've had two years of growth in the building and the fall is due to everything that's been going on around the world, and then the inability of this government to launch a significant construction project. The only thing you've done is finish the projects that the previous government started. So, please, let's put the story of the 28-day construction permit aside, because putting it as a deadline in the law is one thing and it doesn't mean anything, if some other conditions aren't met, Minister, and you know it well, and I think you talked about it. The key problem, according to us, is in public-communal enterprises, which do not have the conditions and consent to issue objects immediately, which the municipalities did not immediately do urban, etc. That's what we talked about, too. We've been making these plans, and now on local self-government, that activity has been completely suspended. For example, you have examples of Subotica and Indjia, where according to that Dulic law it was granted in 30 days. Why? Because these local self-governments were organized and they knew what they were doing. What's the situation in the municipalities now? You know that well, Madam Minister. Please, let me finish now, to answer a few questions I asked for Minister Ilic, for apartments of about 300 euros, and to explain to us that when the conversion is brought... You said, "The law of conversion will be passed." Please, Minister, in public today, in front of the Serbian Parliament, when will you pass the law on conversion, when exactly or approximately will you pass the law on conversion and tell the public of Serbia? If you don't bring it, the tycoons in Serbia, based on these changes of your laws, get absolutely whatever they want, absolutely, they can build on land where they have the use and conversion they don't need. In this way you allow the tycoon group to work with the parcels they took for use, as if they owned them, and the tax will not pay you, i.e. to us as the state of Serbia. It's true and you know it's true. The only way to stop them is by the law of conversion, if you tell us now exactly when it will be brought in and will anything be paid for conversion in the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15005	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15006	Do you know why this law is passed, first of all? This law is passed because we would make the citizens of Serbia re-citizens of the first order, because you made the laws of the Serbian citizens second and third order, and because they came to the counters and waited for hours, days, because they were trying to corrupt the counter and all the other officials in the counters and public enterprises. It applies to our citizens of Serbia, also to investors. So, among other things, we're passing this law that people no longer have to go to each other because they built one house of 40, 50 square feet in order to live in it, they can't get to a building permit for years and then go into illegal construction. That's not what the SNS did. That's what your party and your laws did. What's the problem? I don't think the laws should be called by ministers, as they used to be called, because it's true that some Dulic law, you're right, Velja's law. I think the law must establish a system, order and criteria and not be called by the Minister and by the Government's name, but rather to last and to establish what's called order. So that's why this law is passed. When you talk about these previous laws and when you say that, almost in no way has construction been stopped, I tell you that all previous laws have been waiting for years of building permits, and that's why we have 1.5 million buildings built without permission. And if you're not informed, then you need to inform yourself, let's say here, there's a whole list of different institutions where people went and tried to get their confirmations so they could get a building permit. So that's what this law changes. When you mention local self-government, and when you say local self-government aren't capable or communal enterprises can't give confirmation because there's no plan, it changes by this law. If you'd read it, you probably wouldn't have said it. Another very important thing, when you ask that Serbian citizens be told when the conversion law will be, I am very sorry that you were not present today, I said that at least one five times, and I will repeat the sixth, because of you, in the first quarter, by the end of the first quarter of 2015, will be the conversion law. When you mention tycoons, so I think you're the last one to talk about it, you and your party, you shouldn't talk about it, because the order that's being established by this law is the order that needs to be established on the basis of the unhappiness that you deliberately made with previous laws. Because you and I both know that many have just used legal gaps to do everything that is not good in Serbia. We want to make it right, and this government makes it right. I'd be happy to read to you all the institutions where people went to get their building permits. Not to mention the percentage of corruption and analyses that have been made, how much it costs to get a building permit in Serbia under these laws. It is 20 times more expensive than in the OECD countries, 10 times more expensive than in EU countries. It wasn't the SNS, it was the party you represent and the people who represented your party. So that's the thing we're changing. As for the conversion, once again, it will be by the end of the first quarter of 2015, I think it will be before that. You asked, a very interesting thing, when you're talking about the ropes, why don't you just say it all? Why don't you say he's an American citizen co-owner, but with him together and the president may be the former now, I don't know what your party is called anymore, but President of the Energy Council DS is co-owner of this facility, Cirilovic, for example, my last name, perhaps I'm wrong, I think he was one of the CEOs of "Trizon", one of the financiers, if I'm wrong, correct me, but certainly a member of the DS, when you already mention Uzice and when you mention Vrujce. When you talk about apartments, Serbia will be built and built in Serbia, and there are projects in Serbia. When you say these laws aren't systematic, they didn't bring anything. I don't think I'd agree with you. Despite the difficult economic situation, despite the floods that hit us, so the system laws passed by this government bring results. What's the score? The result is that from the black market people are once again practically getting their work books and starting to work. The result will be that by law enforcement you can get a permit in 28 days, that you don't have to give anything to anyone. The result will be arranged system. That's what you need to get by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15007	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15008	I remind you that even now the difference in days has not been drastic, Minister. Please, it's not a matter of whether it was three days longer or shorter, but simply people can't get permission at that time. Not because they went to multiple addresses, I agree it's good to go to one counter, I agree that's a better solution. No one's normal against it, but the problem is the paperwork can't be obtained. Because it's waiting, because there are no urban plans. Don't say that. Look at Serbia's situation. What does that mean? I'm asking you nicely, how can you do it in India and not in Leskovac? Why? Because every local self-government is different. They're in some kind of promotional democracy. Where the advances are, they can't even clean up garbage, let alone that. You know that. I don't care if it's "Trizon," or what it's called, "DS," I don't care. I don't care, we're not like you to design, so if someone's from my party, I gotta jump. Let him who broke the law answer. The problem is that the minister of your government said it was fine and legalized. That's the problem. It doesn't matter which party it's from. If he breaks the law, it doesn't matter which party he's from. Because you're sensitive to party belongings, isn't the law above that? How are they gonna be citizens of the front row, how do you say, if it's not up to the citizens to finish the job even on one counter? It's not them, so they're staying second-class citizens. Practice will prove you were right. I'm sure of it, and I'm glad you said this was going to be free by the end of the first quarter of 2015, but you didn't tell me if that conversion at some point in your projection would be free of charge or would the market price be paid? When we're on tycoons, we charge these tycoons for conversion and growth, and you're in power for two and a half years, so it's 45% below.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15009	I thank you, MP. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15010	I don't know, you love changing thesis. Let's go back. It's a united procedure. What stands in this law did not stand for previous laws. So, what's in this law is that one service will get everything and that you, me or any investor, potential domestic, foreign, physical or legal person, will go from one to the other, of course you couldn't get your certificates, so neither of you, nor I, are reading the law again. You should read it. When you read it, you will see that it is done by a state body, or local self-government. It is he who will provide all the necessary documents for you as a potential investor. So that's the difference. That's the difference between the law and the previous law. That's why the building permit will be issued in 28 days. You know why else? Because the people who run this government want to establish a system. I'm going back to that. Yes, I am sensitive to political belongings because I think the SNS is doing the best it can and is doing its best to establish the system. When you speak and mention the Vrujce, you have to be correct enough, politically correct and say yes, our member was there, and he is co-owner, not accusing the party. That's why I reacted, for nothing else. What's also important, zero is tolerance to sloth and zero is tolerance to crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15011	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. You can't get a replica. There's the head of the parliamentary group that's replicating with the minister. He can't have a boss. You don't know the Rules of Procedure very well. Study the Rules of Procedure, you have no one to replicate. No one was talking to you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15012	Thank you. Your Honor, Madam Minister, first of all, let me thank you for this law. Because here we have heard from the opposition that the law is very good and that everyone has commended it. I don't see the reason for making up some criticism just to be criticized. It's called criticism. Someone here said, perhaps my predecessor, that a construction operation, a construction company, was destroyed here, that our construction industry is not working well, I couldn't agree more, that's correct. That is unfortunately true, but I would only ask the question – who has ruined these construction companies so far and how have they been destroyed in privatisations? That's a very good question. You are now the minister of traffic, and I'm also interested in our travel companies, to which they were all sold, in what way and how it was so destroyed and ruined. Who, for example, destroyed "Comgrap" and many other enterprises that were the backbone of the development of the former Yugoslavia, later and SRJ, and today someone tells us that they are doing nothing. Of course they don't work when they're cut completely. Since we talked about various projects, let's say the megalomanic project Most on Ada, I'm interested in the company that was doing the work, because it's not our company, it's some Slovenian firm whose owner was arrested. She was in crime up to her neck, but she was presented here as a great construction firm that spent about 500m euros to build such a single project. I'm interested in the Bezka Bridge, who was building, as well as the boulevard of King Alexander, who was working? Who are these companies that got jobs here? It's not the companies we're talking about, where our construction industry used to be proud of them, but it's some companies that are a good part of a purse-fat system and various subcontractors, etc. What's very important about this law, first of all, is I'd start at the end, and it's about building inspections. It's a great honor to have their criteria sharpened like this and to be able to do better than that. I think it's very important that even twice during the construction of the construction inspection itself, to see if it can be fully implemented, any project, and that's something that's absolutely commendable, since we've had a complete mess of construction, no one's ever controlled it, and then it just suddenly comes and says -- so come on, let's legalize it now. Otherwise in Belgrade, for example, we have a terrible legal problem here, because the previous one has made an amazing decision, which is that the complete legalisation process is being transferred to the City of Belgrade and that the municipality takes away absolutely every opportunity to legalize the facility and that's why only 2% of the objects are legalized. Otherwise, I ask the current city government here in Belgrade to return it to the municipalities, because it would be perfectly normal for the municipality, for example, the Starstar or Vozdovac municipality to go legalizing, legalizing an object. Also, what's being introduced like this is a rather shortened process of getting these permits is something that's fantastic, but I think you're going to have a terrible problem here. Because we have an untrained administration first. These people are completely needed, a bunch of them are admitted here just to meet the party and to be behind a computer on a counter and to receive a salary and a bunch of them have no idea how to get all these permits out, or to do what they're asked of him. We're going to have this terrible problem, and I think there's going to be a resistance with them, because not so few of them have been living off the corruption that's and how it's been spread out. Because you had one stretching category with us when you were issuing the permits, you could get a permit in six days, you could have been in six months, so if someone is in a hurry, then you know what measures that investor simply resorted to from a counterworker where he was given 50 or 100 euros to the one who finally gave him that permit where he was given a little more amount and unfortunately, that way, there was a seductive system of corruption that was really terrifyingly developed here, and a huge number of people were living in that chain, and I'm afraid that they would have a terrible resistance to everything that you want to bring in here. I agree that the system needs to be introduced. The law, the law is one thing, the law is what's on the paper. Where good luck goes to apply with all our hearts we all cheer for it, but I'm afraid that in practice it will be a big problem precisely because of the lack of training of our administration and of course because not so few of them have absolutely lived on corruption. After all, as much as this fight against crime and corruption goes on, we are now reading again, and of course it's going very well, a huge number of those who have ruined this country is behind bars, there are procedures, that's good, but this very petty corruption seems to have brought us to some place that we're here somewhere in the middle. We've improved in that segment which has been strengthened, but unfortunately, that petty corruption is completely destroying society and that's something that seems difficult we're still rooting out, but hopefully we'll succeed. In any case, to cut short somehow, the man who wanted to invest here had to, to say so publicly, the soul to drop by until it got to all the permits for five years he had to go through the counters to get to the elementary permit, to start building something and of course no investor and anyone who was normal wanted to invest here, because you know everybody gets sick of it. Not to talk, of course, about what we had at the hotel Yugoslavia when he wanted to buy it, and then they find themselves environmentalists, so they say, imagine here you'll be blocking a bird's view or some nonsense like that, and then, of course, when he sees a man sees if he has to bribe someone to actually get permission, he gets sick of doing something like that and running away from here with his head, which is absolutely understandable. In the end, I'd just like you to explain a little bit, because I really like this, but this system -- project and build. I think people are very little familiar with what it really means and in practice how it's going to apply. But anyway, this law is really the right start of reform with the Labour Act, because this can really attract a huge number of investors, because this is really something that's good. This is something that slowly starts and that petty corruption to suppress. It's starting to attract investors. We're starting to be an interesting country to build, but I'm telling you all of this has to be applied in practice and it's going to be very difficult. I still have to say something about a construction operation. We will have great problems, unfortunately ours, for stopping the South Stream because we intended to employ not so few people in the entire project. Unfortunately, that's how it is now. There's going to be a construction operation pretty much stopping, but I believe that this is exactly the kind of law where you attract certain investors to come here to build factories, and we can do this construction operation on some other projects, and in the voting day, I'm going to really support something like this, like all SNS MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15013	The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15014	I'm going to start with what I think may be the most interesting and most important thing of all, which is "the fidicate of bargaining", project and construction. Let's just say, this is how Bohr's watermelon works. Large energy facilities will work in such a way. So, as it's projected, that's how it's built. Why is that good? First of all, it's good because it lowers costs at least between 20% and 30% of the initial value. Secondly, which is also significant, it is that certainly in this sense the time is reduced. It just builds faster. Of course, we do not say that in international agreements and international relations it simply implies that we have a "fiddice" and that we did not have it now. You mentioned a construction inspection. I think it's almost the most important part of the law. The building inspection must be much stronger. There's going to be a shift of people. This means that of the current seven construction inspectors, as many as there are in Serbia's territory, which I think is very well designed to be so few, those people within the ministry, who are engineers and who are reviewing the documentation will cross over and will become practically building inspectors because without inspection and control we cannot talk about the realisation and application of this law at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15015	The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15016	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Mihajlović and respected guests from the ministry, the MPs of the NS, as Mr Zivkovic said today during the debate, will vote against this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Planning and Construction and my intention is to, as Mrs Mihajlovic said, to announce to you what is the basic objection we have in relation to your approach in preparing this bill. Then let me tell you what three key arguments we have for this position are that we should vote against this proposal. And finally, I have a technical observation in terms of the objection to your approach regarding the content of the Bills and Reasons. I hope this will have an impact on you during this debate and on your attitude towards the bill. First of all, our basic objection concerns your approach, the motionary's approach. You have approached the amendments and additions of the existing Law on Planning and Construction which, as I understand it, is not an expert in this area, and as far as I know, neither are you, but we have consulted, I believe, with experts, which is very bad, difficult to apply, seven times so far. You said here yourself this morning, I wrote down that the law itself is a difficult obstacle to business. I'm talking about the Law on Planning and Construction. He, I understand, and based on your presentation, is irreparable and you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, have decided to fix the irreparable Law on Planning and Construction here today instead of coming with the proposal for a new law. There are several MPs who have made that remark. You have never once commented on that remark by any of the MPs. I'm asking you -- why don't we have a whole new bill today on planning and building when the Prime Minister is in the exposé here, sitting and listening, even saying that such a law will be prepared by the end of July this year? We're in December now, we don't have a new proposal. We have amendments and additions that repair the irreparable Law on Planning and Construction. It's a fundamental remark, Mrs. Mihajlovic. I'm moving on to three arguments. The first argument, according to my court, of the bill kept Serbia's spatial plan. Mr. Zivkovic also mentioned it here. We believe that, instead of the overall methodologically overcoming Serbia's spatial plan, emergency preparation and adoption of Serbia's modern spatial development strategy should be prescribed, so that we have clear development, measures and tasks in this strategy to achieve them, so that, based on it, the Ministry makes for example. specific sectoral strategies, concrete spatial solutions to large systems at the republican level. It's not there, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Second argument, we believe that the bill has not been reformed and brought into order by the Engineering Chamber, for example. Professionals in the area of planning and construction, which I have consulted to prepare for this debate, have told me that they feel that they have been humiliated and humiliated. I also read some of their notes here, which is said to be – these changes and additions missed the opportunity for the Serbian Engineering Chamber to settle and its work to comply with the needs of membership. Membership is made of professionals, gentlemen. Because this is how it is today, and it will remain after the adoption of these amendments, it has offended, say professionals, expertise, knowledge, talent, and failed to fulfil the tasks for which it was founded, respected gentlemen. The third argument, we're going to have big problems with the touching areas. Here, I've tried to record some areas we'll be in trouble with once we adopt this. For example, the Law on Prime Minister and Catastro, roads, railways, protection of cultural monuments, and energy, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic. That's one area that's a little closer to you, so maybe we should have a dialogue here. I have a note on technical matters. I think it's necessary for a motionor on behalf of the Government to send here a text read in the final version, that we have no single-word errors in your reasons for passing the law. It says – the reasons why this law is proposed are, in the increasing need of improvement. What's getting bigger? The words are missing, dear Mrs. Mihajlovic. Missions of this kind speak of surface work and I'm against it, madam.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15017	Thank you. Now you'll get an answer. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15018	Your Honor, I lack a particular reason why you are against this law. All you've said is not the point, but well, I'm going to answer you and what you've tried to tell me is why you're against these changes, and I believe you'll be glad when the permits start to be betrayed in 28 days and a completely different function of local self-government than it is today. I'm sorry about that technical failure, the last one you said. It's probably a knock mistake, and we'll see about that and make it right. I accept that. Let's move on. I never once said the law was irreparable, but according to its contents, these amendments and the additions to the law are practically new law. I don't know if you attended all the time before noon, but I've pointed out several times, exactly with the consultation with the profession, because you're absolutely right, I'm not a builder, I'm not an architect, I'm a completely different profession, and I respect the profession and the profession very clearly said that the law must be special at one point and for construction and for planning and special conversion. I respect that, and that's how it's gonna be, as next year. The law was prepared in July, as the prime minister said in the exposé. I'm glad you listened to the exposés. That means we can talk about how much we've done, and we've done a lot. So the law was prepared and the basic reason was, in fact, long-term consultations, on which we insisted and a lot of suggestions that came from all possible chambers that exist in Serbia, because there are more, is not just one. I wouldn't say that we demeaned anyone in any way, when we're talking about the profession, because I really put it first. But what's the message is just professional, first of all to the Engineering Chamber, I haven't spoken to it yet, but now I'm going to say, so it's going to completely change the way the Engineering Chamber works and works, because it's not normal, I repeat, for the past five years, that almost 50,000 licenses are issued, and that only 14 are taken away, and that at the same time we have serious problems with project documentation and projects where their licensed engineers sign something where the state loses 20, 30, 40 or 50 million euros. So there's going to be a change in the work of the Engineering Chamber in that sense absolutely certain. The proposal you said, this modern strategy proposal, no profession has said it should be done. Otherwise, I think it's a proposal from Shumarca, the minister at one point in construction, which is also the president, let's say, Serbia's Engineering Chamber, if I'm not mistaken. But believe me, no one has suggested that this should change in that sense, and we have all possible proposals of the profession out of everyone and that's why it's taken so many months for all of this. I'm more willing for everyone to look at the law many times and many days, so that, whatever they call it, they change it and supplement it, and it's almost new in content, that the quality solution and that other part, so if we adopt it, is even more important, which is actually the application of the law, or its realization. When you talk about these other laws that are being touched by this law, if you have read the law, then in transitional terms you could see one important thing, which is that, until the sectoral laws change, which is already in line with the Energy Act, this law on planning and building, that is to say, amending and supplementing this law, except in two, and that is to protect the environment and fire. So, in this respect, we avoid this problem that you mention and which is clear, and all sectoral laws must also be amended by the end of the first quarter of 2015, and in accordance with this law. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15019	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Mihajlovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I think it is very important that we conduct this kind of dialogue in the National Assembly, to clarify some things. For example, when Minister Mihajlovic says here – much has been done in this area, and then I quote concrete information that the Prime Minister here announced at the end of April that by the end of July this law will be passed, and now December 2014 and the law has not been passed until the end of July, it will only be adopted at the end of December, then we cannot say, respected Mrs Mihajlovic, that a great success has been achieved in this area. The promise made here in the exposé has not been kept, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The second thing, I do not agree with you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, when you say that there are some essential things, and for you, then I understand, is not the fundamental issue of Serbia's spatial development strategy. For me, it is, because I discussed it with experts, professionals one of whom will be my guest on the Committee on Spatial Planning when we discuss amendments, Mrs. Mihajlovic, so let's face our considerations and professionals. Also, I think the issue of the Engineering Chamber is an important question here. The issue of reforming the administration of institutions that are now due to submit these proposals of this law, it is also, I think, an essential issue, Mrs. Mihajlovic. People tell me – not enough 28 days, but 128, because practice is there, and in practice it is said for example. that the Republic Geodetic Institute does not provide municipalities with a fresh rectoral digital basis for drawing up plans. Well, is that a fundamental problem? We have submitted 18 amendments, and I hope this is the kind of dialogue we're going to have with the amendment debate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15021	Thank you. I didn't understand who was gonna be your guest. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: On the Committee. On the Committee? But you're not the president. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15022	Because of the delay in the law, I'm going to ask the Prime Minister to punish me. Is he all right?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15023	The word has Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15024	I am pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that some fellow Members, instead of law-reading and law-reading, are holding a stopwatch, so they say, July is now the month of December. But I would also prefer that they held a stopwatch when they stood on a list and supported that list, which was amended by the 2008 law, from 149 places, where Serbia's position on the effectiveness of issuing construction permits on the World Bank's ranking list fell to 175 places. In four years, one law. Where was the stopwatch then, Mr. Pavicevic? Forget it. Mr. Pavicevic forgot that stopwatch somewhere. Why didn't he measure it then? We are proud, and Mr. Vukic, Prime Minister, is proud to come here and present the exposés just to remember. But it's better the law that went through all the procedures. A little while ago, you said, "Why isn't it faster?" And then you said: negligent relationship. Well, what other relationship, if we are for this law, that is, the Ministry and the Government for this law has received the support of both the American Chamber of Commerce and NAED, and the Engineering Chamber and all possible representatives. Then came Mr. Pavicevic and said, "People tell me." Are these the same people who said that one notary in Serbia earned 180,000 euros? But we haven't yet waited for Mr. Pavicevic to tell us the name and last name of this man. Are those the sources? I think some of the laufers and others have been in the past a long time ago. But here we are now and Mr. Pavicevic is somehow raising them. He's bringing them back. Some, now they're not laufers, now my colleagues are getting some other names. So, these people who tell Mr Pavicevic what to do and what to do, and that it will take 128 days compared to 28 days, I am sure that regardless of all the challenges facing this government, regardless of all the challenges it has experienced, from the floods and beyond, that it will succeed in Serbia's next position on the Macedonian ranking list, which is about 70, 80 places and here I wish you luck, Mrs Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15025	Thank you. Replica, last name mention, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15026	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Mrs. Mihajlovic and the Honorable guests of the Ministry, two things are here now, I think, for me here very important. First of all, Mrs. Mihajlovic, be careful, Mrs. Mihajlovic says – if I did not do something right, let the Prime Minister punish me. Mrs. Mihajlovic, I have to tell you. Serbia's government as executive authority in our constitutional system is responsible for its work to the Serbian Parliament. I am not at all, the right to tell you, interested in your relationship with Mr. Vukic as Prime Minister, I am interested in the work of the government. If the Prime Minister says something in the exposé, it is not realised, and the minister or minister in the government says – we have worked a lot, and we have an example that it is not, then it is a sign to me that this government and the Prime Minister, Mrs Mihajlovic, is not doing well. Then the Serbian Parliament should punish both the government and the Prime Minister, and what is your relationship with Mr. Vukic, I don't care about that at all. We must institutionally observe things, gentlemen. We are here, as Parliament, as MPs tasked with overseeing and controlling the work of the government. The principle of ethics and responsibilities that Mr. Babic is well-known here, I mentioned it several times, requires that we constantly measure the results. It is not important that the stopwatch is in hand, but it is important that when the Prime Minister says something and when it is some time, that we, as MPs, come from any party, are able to measure the results of this Prime Minister and Minister's work in that government. This is, I think, an opportunity for this bill to measure the government's work and say that the government was not doing well, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15027	Mr Pavicevic, we hear very well, I hope, all the MPs, so I'd like to ask you to just lower your voice a little. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic, a replica, and that closes the circle of replicas. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15028	I believe and I call for ethics and responsibility, and I also spoke of it this morning during parliamentary issues and called for the responsibility of negotiators in procedures when an energy agreement was made. I call for ethics and responsibility that when someone tells the lie from the assembly phone, as Mr. Zoran Zivkovic put it, if ethics and responsibilities were now, not only now, it would have long been the subject of the Administrative Committee, but as a subject for adopting the resignation at the position of the MP. But unfortunately, these ethics and those responsibilities are gone, as there is no ethics and responsibility in the previous speaker, when it is engrossed, I will repeat -- people tell me, as people have told him there is a notary that has earned 180,000 euros. And if the government invited him and if Mr Selakovic invited him, and if the majority of the assembly, and if we invited him as colleagues to say what the notary is, we were left without an answer to such a thing, that is why it is always being put, precisely because of this ethics and responsibility, a big, huge question mark on everything Mr. Pavicevic says here because once a lie puts a question mark on everything that is spoken further. The government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, has never been to a government and never has a prime minister come to the National Assembly with such a large exposé. I don't have a problem with a stopwatch in my hand, and you should have one. And we don't have a problem with that, because we are brave, primarily Mr. Vukic, and then all of us who support him in this business and in the government, and in the National Assembly. We were happy to listen to these escrows because it is an agreement, not with you, Mr Pavicevic, an agreement with the citizens of Serbia who gave the mandate primarily to Alexander Vukic and all of us to reform our society, to make our society a decent and orderly country, to correct all the opportunities, that is, the difficulties that you and your list have brought us to.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15029	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Pavicevic, you know for a fact that this cannot last indefinitely. I just said it was a closed circle of replicas, and now Mr. Ivan Jovanovic will get the word. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, I must explain the next line with Mr Babic. Well, you can do it by the Rules of Procedure, but if you break the Rules of Procedure, normally I'll take your word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that since I have not received the right to the replica now from you, Mr. Becic, that this violates Article 104...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15031	You've won a few times.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15032	... The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and let me just try to explain to you how the Rules of Procedure has been broken. First he had a dialogue with Mrs. Mihajlovic, Minister of Government. We've had several speeches here, and Mrs. Mihajlovic and I. At one point Mr. Babic got involved and I didn't make it...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15033	Because he was entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15034	All right, but I have one feeling right now that I need to answer Mr. Babic for what he said, because so far, and here is Mrs. Mihajlović with her smile to confirm that I understand it, we did not have dialogue through replicas, but with Mr. Babic I did not have the opportunity. Since Mr. Babić has said this twice – Mr. Pavicevic, and there is no other person who has the last name Pavicevic here, so please give me the right to replicate to Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15035	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. As a member of the Rules of Procedure, it's up to me. I think enough MPs have listened to a few lines from your side. I think you said everything you had to say and now Mr. Jovanovic, who waits long for the opportunity to speak in the agenda, will now get the word. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: You are wrong, Mr. Chairman. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15036	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning to say that the DS will not support this bill, and in spite of some of the good changes that he makes, is a vague emergency procedure and it is unclear why you made a stain at the end if you had a public debate, if you had conversations with professional associations, if you listened to objections, you accepted some of them. Why an emergency procedure ultimately and why it comes to the Serbian Assembly in this way especially if nothing in 15 days or a month can change so important. We've had a lot of announcements of legal proposals. Pompous announcements of a major improvement, from the Rapid Response Office, which had the concept that we would get one place that would give responsible investors on all issues to public notebooks and other legal proposals that were somehow used for certain media campaigns where officials were racing in announcements how much this law would contribute to the improvement of citizens. Unfortunately, none of this came true, and all of it ended up being angry. We have a situation in 2013 when Mr Velimir Ilic, your predecessor, came to this assembly, proposed amendments to the Law on Legalisation, where he claimed it would do so by removing the conversion provisions. And it didn't happen, it happened the other way around, so a 40% drop in the construction industry. What you're saying will make it easier for investors, it's that united procedure, where it comes in one place. That's right. You can enable and facilitate the investor to bring him to one place, but the question is, how does a fragmented state administration function and respond to that request? Can they ensure each other that all procedures are followed, how do they measure efficiency, how can you implement the sanctioning provisions? I'll just remind you, we had a number of laws in the National Assembly, from public enterprises to finance, which offered great changes for citizens, etc. But unfortunately, they weren't applied and never applied and everything else was the same. It's even gotten worse. What's good is, it's a cutback on the city building land, but it's not a complete solution. It's not entirely in the sense that you don't know how to spend that money anymore. I, in that sense, have submitted an amendment, where I suggest that local self-government bring in the program by which that money will be spent. We know that money doesn't always go for the right reasons. There are no following laws regarding conversion. You promised he'd be proposed by spring. That's good, and I, in that sense, have also submitted an amendment, where its adoption is committed. There's no building without investment. With 4.2% of the participation in the gross social product, we will not be able to move if there is no demand, unless most of the budget is set for investment and the opportunity, Mrs Mihajlovic, is to fight for a greater share of investment funds in the republican budget when adopting the next programme budget. Also, demand will not increase by reducing pensions and wages. It's great that you've realistically evaluated and kind of analyzed the last five, six years, when you said that in 2009, there were 30 times more apartments built than this year. But that's not gonna change just by changing the law. A comprehensive reform of the entire system is needed and it is necessary to ensure demand, and demand will not be ensured if wages are reduced, pensions are reduced. The apartments, unfortunately, won't have anyone to buy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15037	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. Professor Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister, called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15038	Just for a little while. The efficiency shall be measured by respecting the deadlines. If the deadlines are not respected, there is a legal penalty for economic crime and misdemeanors. Therefore, it is a way to measure an emergency procedure, so, I would even say, that it is also respected in the congregation. You may think, as MPs, that it took more time for you to have the law ahead of you, but the whole profession and the whole of Serbia has it in front of them since July. The desire to move quickly into what is called a united procedure, not to waste time, was the reason why from the moment the law was passed in the government, but for months, a public debate took place. There's not one association or individual who hasn't given their opinion, and if we hadn't looked at it, heard it, and seen what we could do with this law, and we're going to look at your amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15039	Mr. Jovanovic, replica on? (Dragan Jovanovic, from the post: Replic to Mr Jovanovic's presentation, to the mention of Minister Velimir Ilic, in a negative context. Here you are, authorized in front of New Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15040	Dear Chairman, here it is repeated by Mr Stefanovic through my last namer Jovanovic for a negative context in which the president of New Serbia, Minister Velimir Ilic, is brought in. The mention of Velimir Ilic constantly goes astray that he is guilty by his actions and by not doing anything for the fall of construction in Serbia in the previous period. As you could see from this morning's debate and the whole day's debate, the real fall has been from the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and Minister Oliver Dulic since 2008. Be careful, the DS that honors us here all sorts of things, has appointed as minister of planning and building orthopaedics. Velimir Ilic is a graduate engineer, he graduated from college here, not far from this building, at the University of Technology and has all the qualifications. Since 2004, the minister has been earlier for capital investments. Those of you who respect him, you should not honestly do so, but first look at what was done during Oliver Dulic, and in what way it was done, to look at your mistakes, to look at and read carefully the amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, which the current minister suggested, and to talk afterwards about these results in the coming time. Just that time and the work of Velimir Ilic will have someone to evaluate, and this is not the moment and it is not the place now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15041	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. Mr. Ivan Jovanovic, you don't have the opportunity, let me just finish up on the line, because you caused a replica which is why, and I listened carefully, you didn't mention it personally. The possibility of replica has only Mr. Borislav Stefanovic, as the DS is mentioned. You can do the Rules of Procedure, but please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15042	So I'm not interpreted properly. I said... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15043	You can't go on, because you didn't call in the Rules of Procedure, you could call in the replica. It's too late now. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15044	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And it is not just a party, and I am personally mentioned and I apologize publicly to Mr Velimir Ilic, an indisputable expert in all areas. I would apologize to him personally only if we could find him in Serbia where he is right now. I'd like to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15045	Please respect a member of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15046	I apologize to the Minister, and you tell me to respect him. So, the Honorable Minister Mr. Or I'll apologize. (Dear Sutanovac, from the seat of the Honorable Minister.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15047	Mr. Sutanovac, I don't think Mr. Stefanovic needs a lawyer, and I would ask you to respect this high house, not to throw it out of place. Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15048	So it's not a problem for any minister, the Honorable Chairman, the problem is that this government, a respected colleague, in two and a half years has achieved a fall in the construction sector of over 40%. That's a fact. You don't like the fact? I don't like the fact that other than the Minister of Antioch, no one went to Majdanpek to help those people. No one left but him, barely a man alive. Okay, he was Gasic, but I'm not sure it's his portfolio, but let him help. In this situation, we are now discussing whether Minister Ilic is qualified or not, if these infected DS ministers, as you have already said, have 30s and a few thousand more construction workers behind them in the operation, at that moment. The entire "Stepa Stepanovic" village was built, the beginning of the settlement "Ivan Ribar", as it is already called, where the buildings began to smell later when you took over, not because of you, but because of the material. Now you're telling someone? There have been 250 locations throughout this country, tell me, resolution ministers, from all parties, which project have you completed so far in two and a half years, one tell me?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15049	Please, Mr. Stefanovic, to choose the words you speak, your last sentence, I don't think it's suitable for this high house, lastly, I apologize. Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac, you're always there to correct, throw. Mr. Stefanovic, it is normal for the military minister to go where the army went to help its citizens. Mr. Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15050	Dear colleague Stefanovic, of his work, also a respected colleague, former Minister Oliver Dulic, remained all those debts and unpaid wages to all those construction workers who worked on these projects, remained, unfortunately, stinky buildings, where people are now protesting every day and walking in this winter, and all that remains is behind it, and these stains can't just go away in two and a half years, but in 12 and a half and 20 years. That's what all citizens of the Republic of Serbia know. I sincerely hope that there is no need for these sessions when it comes to good proposals, which have been presented by the Resort Ministry, to present these things. I'll show good faith, tomorrow we'll both be in Majdanpek and Velimir Ilic. In Majdanpek, we all need to be together... [[Dear Shutanovac, from the scene applauds.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15051	Mr. Sutanovac, please allow the speaker to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15052	And you, sir and everyone else, so there's no reason for you to say these things to the Public Enterprise of the "Electro Network of Serbia" and the RES to normalize the situation there as soon as possible on the suffering of people in Majdanpek, who are in these moments without electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15053	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. According to Business, the head of Serbian Progressive Party MP Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15054	Mr. Chairman, Article 107, dignity has been violated, you have tried it so discreetly to distract Mr. Stefanovic, but these insults continue. It's bad for our society, bad for our condition, I don't know why this nervousness of Mr. Stefanovic has to say that these buildings stink because of us. It's something bad that's happened, a lot of people are unhappy about it, but accusing their colleagues of smelling and smelling, it's terrible for parliament, terrible for any political story. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Who said that? You just got over it, when the same gentleman said we couldn't clean up the trash. Adversaries can't clean up garbage? Here, I may admit, we may not have been able to clean up all the garbage somewhere, but I'm giving recognition to the Democratic Party that they can clean the budget perfectly well and as Bora Novakovic, and as the former mayor of Leskovec, and the former mayor of the Kings, and all these former mayors who are now by special courts and by the prosecutions and by all means, here's the confession, they can clear the budget and are perfect at it, but they give the award to the citizens of Serbia in the elections, and that's the only relevant and only correct one.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15055	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a People's MP... (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Mr. Sutanovac, come in. By what member of the Rules of Procedure? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Article 107) You can't go by the same article that... (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: Second, slowly Mr. Chairman. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: In his presentation, Honorable colleague Babic presented the lie. ) How did he tell the truth, when there was a sentence I didn't want to repeat, said Mr Stefanovic? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: My university professor would say – Don't sit on your ears. So Mr. Stefanovic said they stink because of you. (Zoran Babic, from the place: They stink because of us. ) (Dragan Šutanovac, from the place: No. ) (Zoran Babic, from the place: he said. I thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. No, you can't do that. You can't do that either. Here's a word for Mr. Blagoje Bradic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure. But you don't explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure but you do enter a replica and I don't want to give you my word. (Dear Shutanovac, from the scene: not true.) ) Here you are, Mr. Blagoje Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15056	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are talking about a proposal to amend the law on planning and construction. I would like to begin with, since I have very little time to give a few suggestions and opinions about what I have seen in this law, reading it along with fellow MPs. It is normal for us as a parliamentary group and I as a member of the party together for Serbia, to support all the solutions in this bill that contribute to the acceleration of procedures, to shorten procedures, to reduce the abuse of our fellow citizens and all those investors seeking permission, which has a direct impact on the construction industry, to develop local self-government, to create a good business climate and to increase income both in the local and the republican budget. But everything we think is not a good solution, we've handled the Minister with amendments. We filed a total of 25. I will try in a few minutes to look back on your exposure, on the presentation of my colleagues, and on what has been said several times in today's discussion, that this law will reduce the waiting for a building permit. I would say not only building permits, our ultimate goal is to get a useful permit, so besides building permits, it's important and this useful permit to be obtained within the deadline, because we have a dozen examples in Serbia that we're stuck in the use of permits, and then we're looking for legalization of objects, and that's those 700,000 objects, which you're intensively mentioning that it was made between 2003 and 2009, 2010, I don't know what year. I would be extremely happy if the country of Serbia had so much capital to make 700,000 objects in less than eight years, and that means that there was no crisis, that there was no poverty, that people didn't lose their jobs, or I don't know that any object was legal or illegal can be made without money, it's impossible. So they need money. Then they're registered, yes, because you have illegal objects that are illegal because they don't match PDR and acts from sixty-six and some years and fifty-seven years. When I speak with short deadlines, I can say that in the town of Nis in the back of five years, I wait for one of my fellow Members from the congregation majority to say that, we have a one-stop-shop system. It is that in that variant, the party brought all documents and in the city of Nis there was also a license in 20 days and a local permit if you bring all documents. It's a good thing this law suggests that the administration will do it, that people will not be harassed, but in a few examples, I'm going to present my skepticism, which is why I think it's illogical that you'll be able to shorten from 240 days to 20, 25, 28 days. Here I will use the example of the city of Nis, for I am from that city and it will be easier for you to follow, and easier for the viewers to explain what we are talking about. The first and basic problem seen in getting the speed that affects obtaining a building permit, i.e. The speed of obtaining a building permit is the data and the document obtained from the real estate catastra. So, it's one big brake and one big possibility to extend the time to get these necessary documents, because for example in the city of Nis we have that the motion pad was built on the basis of the 1988 aerosologist, so when we put together the documents from the Planning and Construction Authority, the aero footage from 1988 and the court book, i.e. land books from the court, we've got no match for parcels and land limits. Then let me go back to the one where we discussed the legalization of the facilities, we have 25,000 requests for a second-degree procedure with your ministry that only solves six employees. I ask, then how are we going to have a discrepancy of data from catasters and papers, if the borders and borders don't match, where the parties complain and seek a judicial solution, how are we going to do it in 25 days, or how are we going to condition that a certain authority and service give the document in five days, as it says in the law? So that's impossible. That's really impossible. I think you should think about going back to the local self-government, especially when it comes to the real estate categorical, I don't mean the whole, but the parts he deals with, to be more efficient and to solve problems more easily. The next thing is very important, it's the consent of public-communal companies to the connections. You say it'll go fast. It won't go fast. Let's see which local self-government has a complete underground motion pad. Is it in the country of Serbia? Well, there isn't. If the city of Nis has a partial underground stalemate of immovableity, they'll have fewer local self-governments. And we're going to ask for consent to the connection, and then we're going to get from these public enterprises a rejection of demands, if they have to say it in five days. The time should be for their team to come out, to determine the situation on the ground, is it possible, as possible and what will be prescribed as a condition for obtaining that building permit, especially when it comes to multi-storys, there are both cuts and sewers and cuts of the water network. What's important is when we talk about public enterprises, it's also a connection to the power grid. You have an example in the town of Nis that when an investor comes, a real building, the Power Distribution as one of the conditions requires that they build a trafo station and that it is equipment. That's not the problem. That's what investors accept. But then the investor has to transfer it into property...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15057	Unfortunately, Mr. Bradic has run out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15058	Let me just finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15059	I have to warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15060	The investor must transfer it to the property of the Elektro-distribution, and it needs the consent of the service, i.e. An institution which, I apologize to the Property Directorate, apologized until I found the exact information, so we have a building in Nis in Igman Street that's four years without electricity because there's still no agreement from the Property Directorate that it can be transferred to Electrodistribution. All of this suggests that it will be very difficult for us to get what you promise, i.e. Permissions within 20, 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15061	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15062	I thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, as has been authorised by the representative of the SPS parliamentary group, our friend Susana Spasojevic, pointed out, the SPS parliamentary group will support the draft law unreservedly in the voting day, and I would ask from the point of view of the profession, therefore, legal professions, to pay attention to several and suggestions of the extremely well-intentioned and comments that I will make in the comment, i.e. the discussion on this bill. I have to go from a practical and life-long experience to a city I come from, which is Uzice. In particular, no single building permit has been issued in Užica for two years, which is indeed something that can be considered devastating, defeating because it is a sin of leadership of local self-government on the one hand, and on the other hand poor legislative solutions that are now being corrected by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia on our happiness and happiness, and certainly by the citizens of Užica. What can legally be pointed out at the beginning when the opening part of this law is observed is that you have done something that the legislators of the law have not done so far, which is that you have established the principles on which the law is based and therefore the MP group of the SPS strongly supports these principles, particularly those of fundamental importance and which satisfy the vital interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I saying this? Well, if we already have the principle of sustainability and the principle of horizontal and vertical coordination, then we have succeeded in something that so far none of the promoters have succeeded. If the state of sustainability is that we have capacities and resources both renewable and non-renewable that we need to keep, cherish, and, in other words, allow these resources to be used in the future, then Užice is the best example. The recent accident of the citizens of Užica, which is related to water supply, is precisely one of these resources that are of vital interest to citizens. If there were respect for the principle of sustainability, as contained in this law, that regulations were respected, and even those related to the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, it would be a question of whether the consequences would have occurred, if the facilities that were near the waterfall had collapsed. Again, according to the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, if inspection decisions had been respected, and the consequences for citizens who were terrible dissatisfactions, and at the same time terrible inconveniences would not have existed, or would not have happened. What I also want to point out, at least when it comes to my county, the Zlatibor County, is an indisputable fact that at least the town of Užice, as the center of the district, should be the headquarters of the planning activities, all of which are related to what is now being promoted in these provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, and that through this principle, this principle of horizontal and vertical coordination we succeed in this strategic planning in order to achieve the level that implies regulating space in an adequate way to service the needs of citizens with the best possible solutions, and they are already contained here. Why am I saying this? Because so far we have had one kind of disinchronization or insufficient synchronization with the Republic's organs. No matter what our coalition of the SPS and the SNS have failed in this regard, this can no longer be, after the adoption of this law, in any case the justification that this sychronization, in relation to what means vertical coordination, is not respected, and in my view is very well systemised in the provisions of this law. The SPS Group strongly supports the solution that you, as a proposing, highlight regarding the project documentation needed to build objects, which contains those definitions that relate to the needs of persons with disabilities, children's needs and old faces. Why am I pointing this out? Simply because building solutions are already present in newly built buildings or buildings that have recently been built. Furthermore, what also deserves unreserved support from the SPS Group was contained in your proposal for Article 6(2). The law we are discussing, which provides for the government of the Republic of Serbia to prescribe the conditions of the properties of construction products, i.e. assess and verify the fulfillment of these properties, i.e. the quality of the material that is permanently built into buildings. Why am I pointing this out? It's precisely because fellow predecessors, when they discussed this, highlighted the fact that we have an appearance in Belgrade, so to speak. The smelly buildings, the buildings in which the owners of the apartments, who acquired these apartments legitimately, on the basis of legally concluded contracts, cannot be used, or cannot move into their apartments. That is why I welcome you in these solutions, because the government of the Republic of Serbia's obligation is now systemically defined and now, through one professional control, there will be a rule that no single element should be installed, the building element should not be installed if it is harmful and it causes adverse effects on human health, as well as the environment, and thus prevents the functional use of dwellings in these facilities. What in the bill of law, as my esteemed colleague Susana Spasojevic pointed out, is fundamentally important, so-called. a united procedure in the procedures for issuing acts in the exercise of the right to build and use objects, which is no doubt the most qualitative solution to the law. I will also agree here with my colleague Jovanovic from Mr Velja Ilic's party, who highlighted one fact that I hope you accepted about the deadlines themselves, a five-day deadline, or a 15- and 30-day deadline. The deadline of 15 and 30 days is not disputed, but a five-day period really needs to be as a five-day deadline, and in this direction it would indeed be extremely useful both through the amendment process and by accepting these amendments to improve the quality of this part of the law, which I agree that your final well-intentioned position in terms of acceptance is just a contribution to raising the quality of this law. What I also point out as legally significant is that the quality of the issues that relate to land-renting institutes, as well as property legal relations, i.e. the form of property rights on land. It is indeed something that must be praised in the provisions of this law, and it is indeed something that I believe has been progressively done as a step forward in relation to the laws we have passed here in this House so far. I'd like to draw your attention, Madam Minister, that we have one problem, and that problem is tied to the land institute for the regular use of objects. In this law, compared to the earlier Law on Planning and Construction, a far better defined question of land for the regular use of the facility is very important and it is said that this land implies that land in the gauges of the building, or beneath the building, and that land that is enough to form one building plot. Madam Minister, I would ask you to bear in mind that we are here in fact in a situation where we have parallel solutions in two laws. One is the law on the basis of property legal relations, and the other is this law we are discussing, which is the Law on Planning and Construction. Why am I commenting on this? Because in the Law on Fundamentals of Legal Relations there is also an institute of land for the regular use of the facility, but it is completely different systematized and regulated. I would ask you, at least in the government, that as soon as we get to the solution that the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Laws, at least as far as these legal institutes are concerned, is eliminated, or that it is no longer in legal traffic and that it is no longer in legal life, because the question is – what is a Lex specialis here? Is it, then, with respect to the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations Lex Specialis, this law or do we have the Law on the Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations that we apply? Why? Because in court practice we have a problem? The courts will be advertised unsuspectingly and will say that these are administrative matters, administrative procedures, transfer to administrative authorities, competent authorities of local self-government, but when a claim arises, where it is said – I want my right to land, to be admitted to regular use of the facility, under the provisions of the Law on the Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations, then we have a conflict of two laws, so that this should be avoided as soon as possible and in an adequate manner resolved. Also, the SPS parliamentary group supports a solution from the proposed law, which implies the possibility of infraction proceedings in the event of a failure by the competent authority, in accordance with the provisions of this law, but please, Madam Minister, that you have one more fact in mind. It is not enough to just initiate a misdemeanor procedure and thus end the sanctioning of one who does not comply with the provisions of the law. What are we going to do in a situation where the party does not act as an organ, by not collecting by official duty, by ex-officio, by those documents it now has to collect, not by party, but by authority, what are we going to do in a situation where it doesn't happen? We have a delay in the process. We haven't defined the time limit until it can run, or it can last, which means it can last indefinitely, which would also be significant to define. The party suffers damage, has the right to compensation and damage, and we abolize the organ or reference that caused the damage. Personally, my opinion, as well as the SPS parliamentary groups, is that in this situation the regression of the damage compensation should be precisely from whoever caused the damage and caused it, which is the body or body reference that acted in the case. There's one more question here, so I'm going to ask you for an answer, when I'm done with this discussion, when it comes to the so-called. professional control of technical documentation, controls defined by professional parameters in the provisions of this law, so it is logical that only one who meets the requirements prescribed by law, licensed, professional references, etc. There is a question of the responsibility of such persons. Do engineers who are registered, or registered in engineering chambers, simultaneously pay insurance premiums, so they are insured for the adverse consequences of their own, let's say, incorrect action, is that insurance enough to cover certain damages and adverse consequences that occur in such situations, that professional controls are inadequate, incorrect and that they cause new consequences? Of course, in that direction it must be far better defined and systemically solved in this bill. We also believe in the SPS parliamentary group that the term "early public insight" should be changed. It's about what happened. The previous control of technical documentation and this is something that enters the domain of public debate, so perhaps the termologically, I hope that you will accept this as a well-intentioned suggestion, should change this formulation, so as not to be "early public insight", because public insight is quite different, legally observed. In any case, previous control through a public hearing implies exactly what you've led here under so-called. ‘early public insight’. What we also strongly support in the SPS parliamentary group is the introduction of the capital city urbanist institution, a really good solution, which, hopefully, can be brought into practice in terms of the correct and consequences and the correct effects of good system solutions. Just before I said what is meant under my own building land regime, which are forms of property. I'm talking about all forms of property here, I'm talking about renting. What I'd like to say is, I'd like to commend you on the lease. So far, we have had situations that have been abused, Madam Minister. We had leases for 99 years, we had leases where the actual organs of local self-government appeared as usurpers, like those that sample abuses. Now it's a very good solution that's been awarded a five-year lease. We can figure out if it could've been three years, if it could've been even 10, but in no way for 99 years. Finally, given that my predecessors from the parliamentary group have pointed out what really deserves a real comment on the affirmation of the proposed text of the law, I just want to point out that in this situation where our and construction operations are now in place, and the rejection of investors by poor legal solutions, especially by the mistreatment of the authorities, we are now in a phase that we are finally sorting these things out. That is why we support all these system solutions, of course, with these proposals that we hope you will accept and with the possibility that through the amendments in the debate in particular we will come to an even greater quality of this law. We in the SPS parliamentary group will make a huge contribution to this, and we will support the government in every way, and you once again, when this law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15063	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15064	The answer regarding the professional control of the technical documentation, which you requested, therefore, the minister responsible for construction works will adopt a rule on how, procedures, mandatory insurance that must exist. If the damage occurs, both the designer and the technical control and the investor will respond in solidarity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15065	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15066	Thank you. An esteemed minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, this is definitely one of the laws that awaited with impatience both citizens and investors and local self-government, a law that would bring order to our construction and allow for a greater inflow of investments. We have heard some remarks today, true, very inconclusive, but in principle, it is only necessary to mention once again because of citizens, that this law has passed a very long procedure, a debate in which all interested parties could participate and that anyone who wanted to take part and give their suggestions and remarks. Even international organisations participated, so that, after months of debate on the law, today the law is of great quality to us. Just once again to remind that Serbia is in 186 places in the efficiency of issuing building permits. Being in third place from behind is definitely not some recommendation for investors to come to our country or invest in certain municipalities, even those who dared to invest their money in certain municipalities waited 200 to 700 days, so that was not encouraging either. In addition, problems in legal and immuvine relations and insufficient coverage of the planning documentation have occurred, as well as inadequate quality of existing documents. In that sense, I just want to look at why the documents were mostly insufficient, inadequate quality. I'm going to say specifically about the ropes. Unfortunately, we often mention it today as an example of how things should not have been done. In Užica, although there were very good urbanists, the planning documentation was produced in Arangelovac, so we have on some plans that above the ambience of several meters is a planned road. There is now a service at the Construction Directorate, which successfully works and draws up plans. So I think that when someone asks themselves -- where are the plans, these plans better not have existed if they weren't done right. The urbanist must know a great deal about the terrain that he regulates, and he must know very well the way and dynamics of its use, in order not to steal such mistakes, because it is very difficult to correct them afterwards. In addition to the problem of divergence of jurisdiction in institutions, we also mentioned the high cost of obtaining a building permit. What is still the greatest drawback is that even the previous law, which was not good enough, was not even applied enough. I'm going to mention again, unfortunately, we've heard more than once about Uzica as a city that has become a synonym that the Law on Planning and Construction should not be done and the loudest of those who have even hit it, so I just wanted to say that we've heard that out of 10,000 filed demands only 1,300 requirements have been legalized. I'd be wondering where 10,000 illegal objects came from, and not until 2012 at the most. In Užica we have a problem that really the law did not apply and we had a problem that they did not even comply with urban regulations, in terms of construction lines, in terms of building flooring, so now we have an even bigger problem to legalise such objects that are squirming in our city. We also mentioned Lake Hot. It's not exactly information that anyone got permission to build on Lake Vrujci. At the time, construction was not allowed, not now either, but there was a failure that was being done and that was, too, until 2012, when the users of the fishing area were building, because they have the right to do so, the small houses in which they will be the keeper of the fisherman, the guardian of the fishing fund. Later, these houses grew and were even used or sold to other persons. We have cases that the city officials at the time had such houses on the banks of the Warlocks, so they shouldn't be asking where the permits came from. The permits didn't exist. About 70 facilities have been moved so far, and there are still some facilities that need to be removed and started to resuscitate the battery. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is primarily intended for literal application. The literal application will ensure that the law is brought to life as soon as possible and predictability of costs and predictability of the duration of this procedure itself, that it no longer depends on whether we know someone on the counter or whether we are in friendly relationships. As far as costs are concerned, investors themselves will pay between 40% and 60% less compensation than before. They will have no obligation to pay a contribution to the construction land until the start of work is reported. The speed and simplification of the process itself was achieved by introducing a united procedure. We heard, a counter, in 28 days, a person who comes up with an idea solution will get a building permit. The responsibility and simultaneous protection of all parties involved in this process have been strengthened. The role of construction inspections will be strengthened. That's what to pay attention to, because technical documentation has largely been controlled so far, and the situation on the ground has been less controlled. Now it's going to be the other way around. At least two mandatory controls were prescribed during the construction of the facility. What is even more important, and what is rarely applied and covered by the law, and this law takes care of it, is the protection of the environment and the security of citizens through the application of this law. As an urbanist, I would refer to a few new concepts. So, location permits are replaced by location conditions, in terms of simplifying procedures. Now it's going to be a public ID, something like location information. The concept of the plan was abolished, and early public insight was introduced. I really like this, and I'm not behind that remark that it'll extend the plan in 15 days. I think this early public insight will make it easier for urbanists, as well as for all stakeholders, interested citizens to give their suggestions in time to avoid any subsequent changes in the plan. In the beginning, there are guidelines, some remarks, and then urbanists are easier to work on. The city's main urbanist is a good idea. Surely it will be the person who will be responsible for coordinating the works of construction, but also this process of issuing permits. Sublaws, which are necessary, are already ready, as we have heard, and the law can come into force, and what is necessary is for all local self-governments to provide conditions and to do more seriously in its full application. From the second half of next year or from the first quarter, we have now heard, the electronic system of issuing permits will be applied. I agree with a colleague who said that a red light should appear in this electronic system in front of all those who have misused their position in the process of issuing building permits. So we get full transparency, greater competitiveness in the investment sense, strengthening our construction industry, greater employment, which means opening new jobs, as well as increasing the participation of our domestic construction production in the gross domestic product from four to eight percent. For all these reasons, the SNS will firmly support this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15067	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15068	Dear Minister, fellow MPs, we have had plenty of opportunities today to hear about all the details relating to the amendment and addition of the Construction Act. Many of our inexplicables have said that he may have needed a new law. What we should insist on today and say for the sake of the citizens of Serbia is that there are problems in society, especially that so far no government has solved, and that you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, should congratulate you on this courage, have started to deal with and deal with the most difficult problems in this society, and that is why today we have these amendments and the additions of the laws given in the light of one roof law, which will in turn in the policy of amending and supplementing the many laws that were here in the assembly debate as sectoral laws. What do we get? We are getting that most important pillar of economic reforms that the prime minister gave in his exposé, which is what's called changes and additions to how the planning and construction system works in Serbia, the way we need to boost the inflow of foreign direct investment, the way we need to create new jobs and simply stop the collapse of the construction industry. What we've heard so far in the debate is that amending and supplementing laws isn't enough, and those who say that don't know the basic problem in the state, and that's the problem of property. Property is the biggest problem and unresolved property-legal relations are the biggest problem in the Republic of Serbia. We haven't completed the restitution procedure. Only since 1.1 will these problems be solved. We haven't finished certain sublaws that are related to the property. The part, which somehow everyone wants to forget, which is the May floods, if they were to change and complement them as they were supposed to, at that rate, in May of the month, simply, all the houses that were planned, from then on, could not be done, because certain building permits should be brought to all these people today would not have their own roof over their heads, but would be literally on the street. Therefore, this government has shown great responsibility. You as a ministry have taken into account all the views of the expert public, taking into account what the recovery is damage from the floods, which were not only related to private households, but also to large infrastructure projects, to the resolution of damage from the infrastructure area, is meant by roads, bridges, but also by the part relating to energy facilities, which cannot go without the Ministry of Construction, besides energy. That's what's been taken into account and given through part of the amendments and additions to the law. Problems relating to the tangling of sectoral policies today show that this law and these amendments will trigger changes and additions to the law relating to public property and to the part relating to state diameter and cadastre, the Energy Act, nature protection, public roads, railways, forests, fire protection, expropriation and the Water Act. That's good. There is always a roof law, and this is a law that covers infrastructure and it needs to be roofed and it will simply run all these changes. To announce that the Energy Act, today was a public debate in the small assembly, on the energy law, will be one of the proposals to adopt a complete third package of energy community directives, which will be adopted by the end of the year, and that is the beginning of all changes in this society, in this legislative act that will monitor the adoption of amendments and additions to this law. One of the big problems that arises which, after all, is expressed through applicationability, and somewhere is a skeptic that this law and these changes that we will adopt, of course and like all MPs of the ruling coalition, is that we will support it -- how we will apply such a law that will simply order people who work in local self-government to respect the weather. When we know that we have seven building inspectors, or when we have at the level of the republic and all those inspectors who refer to local self-government. We are simply skeptical that they will not be able to adopt this law on the ground. I'm telling you that, simply, the past no longer exists in terms of control and inspection. Simply today, lawyers who come to local self-government who are cobayages on strike, and when they tell them, well, you know, don't you strike? And they ask that certain papers be issued and that they offer a certain fee, they say, well, you know, but it's business, it's business, and that strike, so we're on strike. It's gone. It's now part of the past, it doesn't exist anymore and you've caused a kind of earthquake in the state administration with these changes and additions and that's what it just shows that the state, the institution has to be above the individuals. That is why such economic reforms simply push Serbia into development, progress and there is nothing that can stop them in all this. These changes and additions simply need to increase both the quality and the state administration and this shows the simple law that we are about to adopt, and will surely go in the package with the conversion law. It's the inspection law. We need to establish a new control system, which is the unification of all inspection services in one system that will function, as we would say, entirely according to another concept. Simply, these seven inspectors will no longer exist, but a whole system of inspection bodies will sit on both construction and environmental, and those involved in planning, will sit in one place and then systematically solve problems. Well, if unconscious investors appear, they will simply be sanctioned from all sides, and from the point of view of guilt, and from the point of view of the offense, and from the point of view of the building, and from the environment, and thus simply there will be no individual who will be able to beat the system. It is very difficult today to establish a new system on the ground in local self-government. Somehow in the republic, given parliament's creation of new laws, the government creates sublaws, local self-government thinks everything will be like before. No, and they will have to bear the practical burden of these reforms and they will have to change and they will have to learn, but they will have to bear responsibility for it if they do not issue certain permits in 28 days, if public enterprises do not issue permits within 54 days of all of them, and if they simply do not comply with what is prescribed by law. The Serbian Progressive Party has shown that it is responsible for the country and has shown that it can deal with the biggest problems it has ever had. There are simply no politicians, no individuals, no tycoons above the law. This is what will remain in Serbia's history, no matter what they call the future, whatever they call future ministers who will simply record that there was once a prime minister named Vukic, who had simply a certain congregation majority, who had the support of the people to implement reforms and he implemented them despite all the problems and all the resistances in the society that came forward. In the voting day, we will fully support this law. Because he'll give us all a better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15069	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Let the People's Messenger prepare, Zarko Micin. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15070	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, Minister Mihajlovic, dear and distinguished guests, you are headed for almost nine months by this very important ministry. As my predecessor said, it is likely that the people of one will talk about a Wolf who managed to build Serbia and, in some particular period, start some things up for the better. I think in this case a lot will depend on you and your results at the head of this ministry. That was probably the basic reason why even though it wasn't your profession, you were asked to take over such an important resort for a reason, which I suppose the Prime Minister himself has confidence in you personally. The downfall in the building of 40% is something you faced, and that's something that's like a condition found, which is why you were additionally burdened when you took over your function. At the very beginning, this bill of amendments and the addition of laws has good things, there are things that introduce additional order to some extent, and some things further improve. I'm just going to say that this announcement of a reduction in the tax on building land, when it comes to electronic communications and monitoring and some other things such as an active role of inspection controls, establishing a clear line of governance, realising and monitoring for submitted requirements, building permits from the office, all the way to the central register, is something that, to a good extent, this existing law somehow perfects and gives investors much greater opportunities or easier options to get to building permits. I must admit that I have read, that you do not ask again, as well as my colleagues, I have read this proposal of amendment and addition, I must admit that I have had very little time, so for this reason I have focused on what I did not see in this amendment and supplementation, which was amazing, is the very conversion that was made out of amendments and additions to this law. The first question is, why is that? The conversion was in some way literally torn from this proposal, because, as you know by the 2009 law, the planned conversion was with compensation. I want to explain, and then if you followed closely, there were opinions whether she should be with or without compensation. So, you said six times, not to say seven, that in the first part of the following year you'd come up with a bill on conversion and I really can't wait for you to read this proposal together, but in any case, we're wondering if this bill on conversion will be with or without compensation? It is a simple issue because in the event of a conversion with compensation, land is paid where there is the right to use the difference between the price given for the privatisation of a company in Serbia and the price of the building land itself. In the event of a non-refundable conversion, it is free of charge to the owner of the company, but on the other hand, it pays a property tax on that land that has not yet been paid, because it was not his property. So, what does this law predict? I would ask you to answer that question for the reasons that many are interested in interpreting this hole double. On the one hand, whether it was indecisive, whether failure or on the other hand something that opens up the possibility as a certain hole that, if there is no conversion in this proposal then the right to use over land remains for those who have privatised a certain example. Serbia's company. Does this mean that, under this proposal, an amendment to the Law on Planning and Construction is possible to obtain local conditions, sometimes permits, for building, or building permits, although someone does not have property over that building land. So, that's the essential question that we're asking today, and here's the truth: I've had a chance to listen to both the O.R. and the O.R. debate, and I'd be very interested in whether it's solved and how? In other words, there is no conversion, therefore the reform capacity of this law is controversial, there is no conversion that means there are no resolved legal and property relations, which means that as such we cannot join the EU. The European Union has made it clear - with unresolved property-legal relations you have nothing to look for as a full member. So is it possible in the meantime, and you said that sublegal acts will come in some period that is very close to us, until the law is passed, or the bill of conversion in the assembly procedure, would it be possible for someone to get a building permit on land where they have the right to use, and not the right to property, to get permission to build something? In that case, everything we've been listening to all these years, and it refers to so-called. The mugging privatisations of the Vojislav Kostunica government's time, all these robbers would have the opportunity to play law or the legislator's intention, I'm not saying, I'm just saying that there's this possibility, that without conversion they still get the right to build a land permit where they have the right to use. This would greatly introduce the possibility of huge and unremembered corruption in Serbia. For that reason, I'm interested in the answer to this question. I think it's very important that all the good things in this law, and that's why this law hasn't changed, and that's why it hasn't changed, and that's the answer to some fellow MPs and MPs who've been asking questions today, no new law has been passed, because it's essentially not so bad. It was also about the conversion of very large disputes. One model was adopted. The second model was also proposed, but on the other hand, this law is not bad. For this reason, changes and additions can be improved and some worsened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15071	I thank you, Mr. Bozovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15072	I am advocating the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, Article 97(2), and that Article 97, paragraph 2, says: the time set out in Article 1, which is these five hours, is being allocated to the parliamentary groups by a proportion of Members of the Parliament. I followed closely the course of today's session, as well as all others, the DS parliamentary group spent 20 minutes, but the DS parliamentary group no longer has that number of MPs. Today, the DS parliamentary group left Mr. Milan Petrovic and officially notified the National Assembly. The breakup continues in the picture we see from the DS bench, not that one left, but only one left, and I support and respect Mr Balša Bozovic for staying. But I think it's inappropriate and against the Rules of Procedure to use for a time that doesn't belong to them and that they don't have. I believe that in the days and months ahead, that time will be less and less. I believe, Mr. Chairman, that this is an oversight, but because of the public, because of my colleagues, because of those who do not know it, I really think that it is necessary to reduce that time and in this way fully and properly respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that when some MP leaves, as they leave slowly but surely line DS, it is publicly said and that in this way it gets time by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I don't want you to vote on it, I believe it's an oversight. I thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15073	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I apologize to the MPs, my oversight. I had a memo here by Milan Petric saying he left the DS parliamentary group. Here you go. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15074	It's about conversion. So, first, life continues and nothing is stopped. A non-refundable conversion exists for all except certain entities, whether from privatisation, bankruptcy, therefore, executive procedure, persons, sports associations, therefore, it is in your article 102. It can be seen nicely from Annex G, etc., which are not covered, where such conversion cannot be. Why is that delayed? It has been delayed because we are doing the current analysis of the effects of the conversion that we are going to get by the end of this year, and in this sense, the law is special for conversion, because as I said today, we are a country that has somehow worked backwards and made a serious problem for itself, and that is that all other countries before us have finished the conversion and started to privatise, and Serbia has unfortunately started to privatise and the conversion has not yet been completed. When you ask for the right to use and the right to build, it already existed once. So this is not the first time that those entities that have no property and have the right to use will have the opportunity to get these location conditions and build. Of course, the law and certain documents determine exactly where it can be built. So, if the plan was determined, it could be built. So if there's a clear plan somewhere, where it's said to be a port activity, there's no building there. So, until the conversion law, we'll see if it'll be with compensation, how much compensation. This will give us what's called pure mathematics, an analysis of the effects that are currently being done. A little supplement. This government lasts seven months. In seven months, this government has passed system laws along with all the basic and serious disasters and the problems we face every day and every month. This government has worked in an emergency state for nearly four and a half months, and regardless of what it did to system laws, it has taken steps to move into what is called reform. Indeed, I see this law as a reform law that needs to bring us a simple system of licensing, a shortened bureaucracy, a shortened procedure, an effective procedure for citizens and investors. That's the most important thing. So those who come to the counter must leave that counter satisfied, not angry because they couldn't get the information and all the other documents.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15075	Thank you. Mr. Bozovic, on what grounds? (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. ) The minister answered your questions. I don't see what the replica is. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Give me two minutes. You have no right to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry. The People's Messenger, Zarko Micin, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be accepted, Milisav Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15076	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we have before us amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction proposed on the basis of previous experiences in the application of the current Law on Planning and Construction, and this very experience has shown us that the current Law on Planning and Construction was not well-conceived because in Serbia it took more than 265 days and more than 30 documents to obtain a valid permit. This was all due to the extremely complicated bureaucratic procedure and slowness in implementing the necessary procedures. The main objective of these amendments is to significantly speed up the process of obtaining building permits, as well as to allow for more efficient implementation of all processes and actions necessary for quality planning and building of buildings. It is precisely in order to speed up the procedure for issuing a building permit for this amendment of the law that provides for a procedure, i.e. the obligation of local self-government to establish or define a body that will implement a unified procedure for issuing local procedures for the issue of locational conditions, building permits, registration of works and issuing of the applicable authorisation, as well as for obtaining specific conditions, documents and other documents issued by public authority holders, and the conditions for building facilities, i.e. the issue of locational conditions, building permits and the use of permits under their jurisdiction. What is more significant, the united procedure implies the obligation of the Authority to obtain, under official duty, all the consent necessary to issue the relevant act, which means that now that the citizen comes to that unique counter and submits a request for the issuing of the locational conditions, the competent authority in which that request is submitted will be obliged to obtain all the necessary consent for those local conditions. What also defines these amendments, which is good, is primarily the exchange of documents by electronic means between all participants, that is, all bodies participating in a united procedure, which will also significantly speed up this process, and not only that, this process will make it significantly more transparent. Also, the amendments to the law define what is important, and these are the deadlines for handling the conditions of the public authority applicant, because so far we have had a situation that, when it comes to obtaining conditions for public authority applicants, they did not have a defined deadline within which they had to deliver certain consents. You had a situation where you waited 15 to 20 days for certain consent. When you have five or six such consents, it can take more than two months. Now these amendments to the law define it differently. They define the obligation not only of the public authority holder within the time limit to deliver the consent, but also of the body carrying out the joint procedure itself, because it has a five-day deadline to submit a request for consent to the public authority holder, and the public authority holder has 15 days to respond to that request. What is also very important is that there is an obligation on the part of the body to carry out a united procedure to initiate a misapplication if the public authority holder does not act within the legal time limit. Not only that, it will also inform an investor who can also take appropriate measures. In order to ensure transparency and to facilitate the monitoring of the whole process, the amendments to the law define the obligation of the authority implementing the procedure to maintain an electronic publicly available database on the course of each individual case, from the submission of requests for the issue of locational conditions until the issuing of the use of the authorisation, which also contains a scanned act obtained and issued in that procedure, as well as all procedures for the merger in one central register of the Agency for Temporary Registers, thus allowing easy insight into all interested persons and again preventably affecting all persons in the procedure, i.e. all bodies in the process of acting within the deadlines defined by law. What will also speed up the whole procedure is a provision for amending the law that defines the limits of power. In particular, during the conduct of a joint procedure, the competent authority shall carry out an exclusive verification of the fulfilment of the formal conditions. Therefore, it is not included in the assessment of technical documentation, nor examines the credibility of documents supplied in the procedure, which has not been the case so far. So far, you've had a case of administration referents entering the essence of the documents themselves, that documentation standing, and thus the process is still being delayed. In this case, it won't be a case. So, they will only look at those conditions that are defined by the amendments to the law, legal-formal conditions, until they enter into the essence of the case. It's something that will also significantly speed up the whole process. As far as planning is concerned, the paper in the amendments to the law is to define that the strategic assessment of environmental impact is now an integral part of each planning document, which I welcome and which is in principle a harmonisation with the Environmental Protection Act. The amendments also define a new Institute of Early Public Audit, which implies that early public insight must be made available to all interested persons, public authority holders after the decision to draw up a plan. So now we're going to have in the process of drawing up a plan in fact two public insights, with this one going to be right after making a decision on the draft plan. What is significant, this will enable better quality plans, i.e. interested persons to make their observations, and at that stage they will be able to make a better plan later on. What is also important, which is also defined by the amendments to the law, is that if a plot required for the issue of location conditions, which precedes the building permit, there is a particular plan document which provides for a more detailed development through a lower order plan, and this plan is not passed within the legal time limit, instead of a lower order plan, a sublegal act will be adopted to define elements that would otherwise be defined by that lower order plan. In other words, simply speaking, if there is no lower order plan, it will not have to wait six months for the adoption of such a plan, but it will be worked out through a sublegal act that can be quickly adopted. This will especially contribute to the acceleration of procedures in local self-governments that do not have developed planning documentation. I believe that these amendments to the law have been made by the Government to significantly speed up the process of issuing permits to build infrastructure facilities, as well as to make better planning solutions. In doing so, these changes contain essential solutions to problems that have significantly slowed the authorisation process so far. What is also important is that, in the making-up of these amendments, the profession, urbanists, architects, lawyers, as well as the companies to which the changes will be addressed by a number of other institutions, which will certainly lead to the process being carried out much faster. Not only, but this means that we have adapted the amendments of the law to the real needs of the participants in the process. It is certainly something that will lead to the improvement of the business climate for all interested investors and I am sure that the positive effects of this law will be seen very quickly. That's why I'm voting for this bill and I suggest you do the same. I'd like to ask Mrs. Minister and her associates to consider the seven amendments I've submitted, I think they're good, so if they're good, please accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15077	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milisav Milojevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Vesna Simic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15078	The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Mihajlovic and his associates, respected MPs, as a longtime businessman with my colleagues, met with a series of problems that preceded the acquisition of construction permits and local permits, as well as in the book. Therefore, I would like to thank the government, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, as well as the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, who prepared and presented the Assembly with a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction. The problems in the areas monitored by the transition, concerning all areas related to spatial planning and facing us since 2000, have not been resolved yet. After 14 years, this government is brave enough to establish and consistently implement a system in line with some of the laws of EU countries. This means that amendments to the regulation should not remain at the level of this law, but must include other sectoral laws governing this area. Amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction will provide conditions in which investors can easily and easily obtain a valid permit. That is why it is necessary to engage as concretely as possible in the debate and to propose the best-quality solutions. This law will reduce administration, curb bribery and corruption in issuing building permits, and most importantly, new jobs will be created. The most significant amendment to the law concerns a whole series of new provisions and institutes, such as a united procedure, a level of public insight, the keeping of a central register, a booth, as well as a number of other benefits that will allow faster construction, regardless of the plans adopted solutions. Trained engineers will work on counters, and a step further will be the establishment of an information system between local self-government and the resolution ministry, reducing the possibility of abuse in issuing a building permit. In Serbia, on average, 216 days are waiting for construction permits and 45 days for the book. It is expected to move by at least 30 seats following the adoption of this law on the World Bank list, because it is now 180th in 176th place. I come from the municipality of Arangelovac, which as a municipality pilot is involved in a project conducted by the Office for the Digital Agenda of the Republic of Serbia in co-operation with the Republic Geodetic Institute, which refers to electronic services related to the issue of documents relating to building permits. The implementation of this project is expected after changes and addition of the law. There have been a lot of good suggestions made by my previous speakers, and I will look back at a few examples that have become important to me for the amendment and amendment of this law. When a general plan was adopted in a local self-government, it also provides for detailed plans for certain locations. The applicant shall be required to issue a local self-government permit within one year at the latest, from the date of adoption of the general plan, whether or not he has drawn up a detailed urban plan for that location. My question would be whether this provision or this provision provided for by law will enable people in local self-government to abuse their ability to issue permits without detailed urban plans? It is also important that the permit can be issued even when no traffic around the facility has been made, but they can be done during the construction period, and therefore they must be implemented until the permits are used, so that the investor will not stop building the facility. Finally, we must say that the application of laws and procedures must be carried out with care, so that the local administration can respond to the changes, so I believe that the resolution ministry should organise training for local self-government at the beginning of the application of an advanced law, for the smooth performance of its duties in the granting of conditions for designing, construction and other permits. The adoption of this amendment and the addition of the Law on Planning and Construction and Consistency with International Standards, we can be sure that we will attract investor attention and create a suitable investment environment. Therefore, as will the SNS parliamentary group, I will vote in the voting day for the proposed amendments and amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15079	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15080	Let me just answer what you asked. So, local self-government has 12 months to do the plan, but if they don't do the plan then a higher order plan is being used. That's what the law says. But I think local self-government, at least according to what we and local self-government talked about will have the very need, at least express themselves the need, and what the local self-government lacked, when we talk about plans, was mostly money, so finance. Therefore, in addition to supporting the ministry in this regard, there is a law that provides that both natural and legal persons can finance the development of a plan and I believe that and how to facilitate, in fact, the local self-government to have plans within the planned deadline. As far as training is concerned, of course, already prepared will necessarily be training, because it is simply impossible to let local self-government work without sitting down together and not agreeing and not having clear rules on how they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15081	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vesna Simic has the word, and let the Messenger Boban Birmancevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15082	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister and Vice-President of the Government, fellow MPs, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, before I move on to what made me a special impression in this bill, without thanking Mrs. Mihajlovic, who spent the whole day with us today, answering all the questions she was asked, both well-intentioned and the other very, very systematically, very seriously. In this way, it showed that the prime minister was the first time, when he appointed as minister, on another responsible task, and this time, he was not wrong, showing this confidence, and I am therefore sure that the law proposed today and in whose adoption it was most involved, a good law that we of the SNS will certainly support. It is very ungrateful to say when it comes to some law, that it is a very important or important law since for each of us, both MPs and citizens, thanks to which we are MPs and who we represent here in this House, the most important solution to those issues directly touched by them. So, of course not, each of us is touched by questions related to this law, construction and urbanism, but also by other issues. But it's been waiting a long time for changes in this matter. Today, it was said that a comprehensive, comprehensive system law rather than just some system solutions had to be proposed. But the question is, what was smarter? We all know how long it takes to make one such law and how long this government is working, headed by Prime Minister Vukic, and led by Minister Mihajlovic, as minister of traffic and infrastructure. Then the question arises – is it wise to approach any system solutions immediately and then, of course, change and what is proved to be infallible during their application, but not to change anything yet. She's sure to approach the changes immediately. I was the head of a rich professional practice, including the head of the municipal administration and the public defender and how she met, working on these jobs, on issues related to urbanism and construction. When people were supposed to decide to build and decide that construction was legal, to get to the building permit, then they grabbed their heads. We heard about what. Because of waiting in the ranks, because they were returned many times, which they really always missed so much and that people from whom it depended were really little being placed in a way that when they realized that this man couldn't start construction without their permission, they put themselves a little above others. When this bill was drawn up, we also heard that there was an analysis of legal solutions in other countries, countries in the environment, and not only in the environment but also much wider, as well as people in the profession and not just in the profession, but also in lawyers, investors, builders. So, to all people who were in any way able to get in touch with planning and building. A task force has been formed that has started its work just by analysing the already existing law. Of course, the task force working on this proposal has set itself a goal that needs to be solved first. The first identified problem was the inability to obtain construction permits due to the lack of adequate planning documents. Then the length of the waiting, to issue the necessary specific conditions, permits and consent, disproportionate costs of the procedure and legal uncertainty of the participants in the procedure. However, the reason for solving these problems lies in the fact that it exists and we have heard it today about one and a half million illegally built objects. Then, the problem is the growth of the construction industry in general, unresolved property-legal relations on building land. So spatial and urban planning had to undergo significant changes, however, all these changes did not give the expected results. The required obligation for each local self-government to adopt two mandatory plans is not done, so there is no legal possibility in most parts of the Republic to issue a local and construction permit, which many investors use as a reason to start illegal construction. The papers introduced by this law also look at improving the principle of energy efficiency in cooperative society. The establishment of a budget fund that should contribute to the creation of an opportunity for citizens who own energy inefficient buildings as investors to, under favourable conditions, carry out an energy recovery of their facilities. Improving the provisions on technical standards of accessibility for buildings, public and business purposes, and when it comes to persons with disabilities, children and old people. Set up a unified procedure for obtaining the necessary documentation in construction procedures through a single-shart system. There is a question of the relationship between this law and other specific laws which also regulate certain issues in this matter, such as public property law, privatisation, forests, waters, disaster and diameter, nature protection, expropriation, and the question is what in the case of the conflict of standards between these specific laws and the law on construction and urbanism, to which the minister is giving answers to questions and speeches, of course, it is known, will apply until the moment until these specific regulations are complied with by the existing law. The main reason why the amendment of this law is proposed is to improve the conditions of construction in Serbia, by implementing a united process for issuing building permits. Since we've heard that we're in a very invisible place, in terms of the waiting procedure for building permits, that we're in third place from behind, i.e. to 186 of the 189 states, that the length of the 269-day wait is on average for the issue of a building permit, those proposed solutions that provide for the building permit to be obtained, as the minister also said, when all three permits are combined, i.e. all three conditions for some 28 days from the occasion, is a far, far, wide improvement compared to earlier legal solutions. The immediate question about this law is also the question of compensation for the construction land, so there have been different solutions here in which, in the future draft law, the issue of this fee has been resolved, and it has come to the conclusion that it should be paid only for the missing infrastructure. Some felt that its provisions should remain the same as in the previous law, the other that the amount should be prescribed for the entire territory of RS, and the fourth that the amount of compensation is determined from the average prices of building land per zone. However, she has overcome the option that at this point, the most rational thing to do is to keep the payment obligation, but of course, limit local self-government. Since my observations have also been made by my colleagues from the SNS and will be spoken in the future, I would therefore thank you for your attention and in the voting day I call all well-intentioned, and I am sure that everyone in the SNS will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15083	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Boban Birmancevic, and let the MP Alexander Markovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15084	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected vice presidents, respected colleagues, respected citizens, here seven months from the work of this government and from the work of this assembly, is another essential in the procedure, we can say, system laws that, together with a set of laws that have been passed in the previous period, will bring strengthening of our rule of law, of course by strengthening the rule of law, strengthen our institutions, strengthen citizens and simply introduce order into one chaos that occurred during the previous period not just by applying legal provisions and poor legal proposals and legal solutions. This bill of law will hopefully be passed. It will directly affect the work of companies, the work of entrepreneurs, the work of local self-government, the citizens, their budget and their standard, and will simply lead to a change of climate that, in previous years, started with the law that was in force in 2003 and 2009, led to the fact that at this moment we have about 1.5 million illegally built objects, which is probably the figure for the Ginis Book of Records and, of course, we are in 186 places of 189 states, which is another data that speaks for ourselves enough. All efforts so far to bring order into an area of exceptional importance, which is planning and building, good planning, good construction are precisely the engine of construction firms that are pulling up apartments, withdrawing the construction of new business and housing facilities, or withdrawing the entire economy, increase the number of employees. The losses created simply by laws that could not properly and properly solve the problems that were set before them are just a loss of, estimated at 231 billion dinars in the previous period right in the area of construction. The bill, since it was developed systematically, has been done for several months, all the requirements and proposals of those who deal with construction from local self-government to foreign, EU and NAED and other organisations have been respected. It's just that the profession has finally given its opinion on this law. The Ministry has listened to everything and, accordingly, made this and this proposal. There is no one in this country who has no problem getting a building permit and this law will certainly cheer the citizens themselves, and especially construction firms that, without this and this law, cannot function. The permit under this law will be granted to all citizens within 28 days, only the 28-day extradition says how precise and clear this law is and if someone had told any citizen last year that someone would dare propose a law in which the building permit will be placed for 28 days, he would believe it to be a hidden camera. You'd think it was a hidden camera because it's really an extremely serious deadline and it just shows how much this government and this ministry and, of course, this congregation we work in, wants and does serious things. This is not the law of the SNS, it is not the law of the party, this is the law of the Serbian state and as such will bring improvement in all much, much wider areas than the building itself is planning and building. What my predecessors may not have said, although a lot has been said, it is, I will point out once again, that with this law, this may be the first time and all praise to the Ministry, that along with this law, a set of sublegal acts that will automatically enable the rapid application of these legal norms and that there are procedures and trainings in local self-government that would remove any irregularities in the course of the law itself by the end of March of the month, and believe that there will be no major problems in the work of local self-government. It's just that this isn't party law. Every local self-government has an interest in working in the best and fastest possible way by citizens because of its citizens, because of the city itself or the municipality itself, and accordingly, it will certainly help both the state and the government and this ministry to make this law as easy as possible. Those local self-governments that are not able to do this within 28 days have to address the ministry, have to ask for help from the ministry that will be open to all of them, but simply, I'm sure there's a way if there's a will, and it's this law that defines the way it's going to be done, then it's simply necessary to apply the members of the law and act accordingly. This law restores faith to investors, restores faith to citizens, restores simple trust in this country, this ministry and in this Assembly at all. Of course, I call on the opposition to stop making up criticism, because given the law that we are changing, which we are correcting, and which, given the changes that have been put into it, we can consider it a whole new law, simply, not a criticism. Critics, as usual, catch forms, but the essence of this law is fair, fair, in the fastest and best possible way for citizens. I call once again on the opposition to support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15085	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandar Markovic has the word, and let the MP Mujo Mukovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15086	Thank you, Mr. Trifunovic, Mrs. Damjanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite the fact that there are few MPs of the former regime, which speaks of their relationship to this very important one, I would say, the law, the Law on Planning and Construction, a law that a lot of public talk all this time and the law that is very necessary, even necessary to Serbia, but that speaks of their relationship, talks about their interest in this topic, but I still think we should continue this debate. What is good is that the public debate that lasted more than four months was exhaustive and constructive, and we had opportunities and opportunities to get acquainted with all the key arguments for and against this bill. In this area, we have major problems that arise through a slow, complicated and inefficient procedure for obtaining the necessary permits, a lack of full legal certainty and unresolved legal and property relations, a lack of necessary planning documentation and plans, large and completely unrealistic costs for obtaining building permits that we have heard in Serbia, as we have heard, several times higher than in some EU countries. All of this resulted in this sad fact that Serbia is now at 186th place at the speed of issuing building permits, and that the authorisation process takes an average of more than 260 days. One of the colleagues mentioned an example of Macedonia, as an environment in 89th place, and that is, I think, a data that speaks quite enough in favor of this issue. All this led to Serbia's construction sector falling to very low branches, as you yourself said earlier, Mrs. Mihajlovic, as well as that the number of building permits issued today was lower than it was in 2008. The worst part is that it shows no degree of growth, or signs of recovery. I don't think I have to point out how devastating this is for Serbia, for a business picture of Serbia, because construction, the construction sector is at all something that represents economic momentum, the momentum of economic activity and the engine of economic growth and the engine of economic development in Serbia. That's all the things we need to change, if we're going to improve the overall economic environment. For that reason, we must pass this law. It is no doubt that the proposed law belongs to a group of reform laws, i.e. to a continuation of the reform measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would just like to highlight some of the positive effects that I believe this law will produce. This law introduces significant reliefs for investors and makes it easier to look at the process of obtaining construction permits, which will be expected from now on for up to 28 days, but also in simplifying the procedure itself by introducing a one-stop shop system, as well as by the fact that the competent state services, as we have heard, will assume on their own the obligation to collect all necessary documentation and by official duty. What have we got so far? We had a fact that the investor had to break the thresholds, that he had to go from the counter to the counter, that he was wasting both time and money to get all the necessary consent, licenses and other documentation, and under the new law, all of it would be able to be done in one place, on one counter, and even if he came across a problem of that kind, he would be able to file a lawsuit and start a compensation procedure with the competent authority. What is also a benefit, is the introduction of one body, or one service, where a united procedure will be implemented for the issue of locational conditions and building permits and application of works and, finally, the use of permits and all other documents issued by public authority holders. By introducing the institution of the United Procedures Register, as well as the registrar as an authorised person run by the Register, which is found in Article 8v of this proposal of the Law, it is interrupted by the current practice of unsatisfactoryness and inaccessibility of information on the process of issuing licences and directly contributing to the reduction of potential corruption. This law also provides for a variety of cost cuts in the way of compensation for urban land planning, which is what we in Belgrade call a tax, i.e. a fee for city building land, as well as criteria and maximum amount for that fee. What I think is an additional advantage for investors is that from now on, the investor will be able to pay that fee or get a reduction if he decides to pay it once. I do not have any further questions for you, Madam Minister, but what I would point out, and as you have pointed out several times so far, that the most important thing to do is to get this law fully and truly applied, because if the application of this law is complete and true, it is clear that we will speed up the construction initiative, that we will improve the economic environment, thus attracting new investors, which then creates additional jobs, and all in order to raise overall economic growth in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15087	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mujo Mukovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Veroljub Matic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15088	The Honorable Chairman, respected Mrs Mihajlovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us to amend and supplement the Law on Planning and Construction and it is indeed an important reform law, perhaps most important after the Anti-Corruption Act. The very situation in this area that many colleagues have discussed today, the fact that Serbia is at the very end of the list at the length of waiting for a building permit, then the total decline of the construction industry, then the high corruption that was present in the application of the still current and valid Law on Planning and Construction, and as a consequence of this high corruption, the fact that we have unfortunately about a million and a half illegal, or illegally built objects, etc., tells us that if there is no need for reform in this area, then I do not know in which area they are needed. I would really give up the discussion if it weren't for this important law and as a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic and Infrastructure, I feel the need to say a few words about, we'll agree, at least the vast majority, to a very high-quality legislative proposal. We heard this today from many MPs of the opposition, that the bill is of quality, and it seems to me that the biggest objection, at least most opposition MPs, was why we don't have a new law, but we have amendments and additions to the law. I am currently in favour of this principle defined by Mrs Mihajlović, which is the principle that it does not begin all of me and that it does not necessarily have to be passed a new law in order to make certain political effects, i.e. points. It is this principle of change and complementarity that we are actually getting a new law, because in all areas that have braked development, braked the construction industry, braked and slowed down the process of obtaining building permits we have extremely high-quality new legal norms, we have quality solutions and here it is only political will that this law be completed and implemented. Most of the discussion was that it won't be possible in 28 days and so on, taught by probably previous experience that we've passed laws and I have to say that the 2003 Law wasn't bad, it was a good law, but unfortunately it wasn't applied in practice and that's why we're in this area where we are. What I especially want to draw is that the most important changes in the law are the introduction of a united procedure and that is what we have long waited for. It has been announced and promised for a long time, but finally by this law we have this proposal now, and I am sure, since this government has such a significant and numerous majority in the Serbian parliament, it has a political will, that this law will finally be implemented, because penalties are also provided for those who do not respect these deadlines. So we have a significant cut in time to get a building permit. Then we have the introduction of locational conditions that are not administrative, but are, as I say, an engineering professional act and it is indeed commendable. What I also want to apostrophe and praise as a good solution is that there is a reformed compensation for the construction of building land. So, it was a pair of excellencies that was parafiscal ink, which was increasingly more than a compensation for setting up construction land. Now we have a contribution that is limited. So it won't be possible for local self-governments to behave as they will, not to be able to recalibrate their citizens and investors, but rather to move around 10% of the price of a square meter of apartment in the local self-government that is concerned. I would also like to commend the abolition of the Spatial Planning Agency, because I am basically in favour of abolishing all agencies and I think it was about overlapping jurisdiction and that these people will now be doing this job within the Ministry, but there will be a lot of savings. In principle, I'm in favour of abolishing all unnecessary agencies. When it comes to conversion, I've heard it's necessary to go with a special law. This is a very important and sensitive issue, and I think it is important for this stage that all those who have the right to use will be able to build, except for those cases that are numbered there, which Mrs. Mihajlovic spoke of earlier, when she answered the question of the MPs. It is also important that many sublegal acts, and we heard this today on the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure, are already in the works or at the end of the work, and that by 15 February 2015 we will have all the sublaws necessary for the implementation of the law. Just when we talk about the implementation of the law, I want to appeal and ask the Ministry to really introduce order in this area and to agree as an MP for the Bosniak People's Party, which works in the Sanjak municipalities, I cannot talk about other municipalities, but I know the situation there and I know that there have been a lot of robbery of citizens and recruitment of citizens in the issue of construction permits, so that it has to stand in the end, there must be increased inspection. We've heard there's only seven construction inspectors. There must be a serious inspection, which will control these people in state bodies who work to issue certain acts and certain permits, and that finally people will be motivated to work in accordance with the law and that we will best stop at the end of wild construction. Speaking of illegally built buildings, I would disagree with the discussion of one MP in today's afternoon debate, which requires investors of these facilities to pay everything, because if we were as a state of opportunity for social housing, for which we all singled out the funds, let them buy out for hundreds, 200 more marks or euros, then we have to find this optimal measure and allow the state, if necessary, and by official duty to register and legalise all the facilities for some normal amounts, because we have to bear in mind our citizens' situation, that it is indeed a great wasteland and that one huge part of our citizenship barely puts an end to the end and that there would be no wild construction that they had the money to build for themselves their family and housing facilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15089	The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15090	I think today is a exhausting day, but I think it is well supported by both the Minister and the Secretary of State. I thought I was talking a lot more, but I'll cut it short. I think some things that aren't apostropheic enough simply come out and pay attention to them. First I'll start with one question you don't have to answer. These 28 days, the issue of a building permit is simply a very short deadline. I don't know if he's been running you for February or if it really takes 28 days? We're always talking about 28 days, I think it's been enough in our ears, but it just needs to get to those 28 days, and it needs to be brought out. I want three things to pay special attention. Number one, fire protection. So far, fire protection has performed three times – once before, once the project has been completed and once within the technical review. If this Article 134 is in effect to amend and supplement this law and the Fire Protection Act, I think that's fine, and if not, then we'll have a problem, and it should be done by Article 134 of the proposed law. Secondly, local self-government is very often mentioned here, and I think there are a lot of flat-rate estimates about the power and ability of local self-government to apply this law. I claim that a good deal of local self-government will apply this without much training and preparation. I claim that there are even small and medium and large ones, especially those that have made the planning documents, which are less talked about here today, are more about building and realising, but all of this is preceded by the planning documentation. I'm saying that's the way it is. Every local self-government needs to see its own interest in all of this, and that's if they work well, if there's planning documents, if they can quickly issue a building permit, then she'll get an investor sooner, have better development, and that's a simple formula. Something is also unwarranted today in the morning part of this session, and it is said – the revision of the national diameter. It's too big a word, too easy to say, and too hard to realize. I don't think it's serious, and I'm asking you to just not take it as a serious thing, at least at this point. What hasn't been said about it today, and I don't blame anyone, but it's my duty to say that in the context of spatial planning and construction, simply geodetic activity goes through the whole process from beginning to end. So let's start with the parent number, which in geodetic activity is the number of plots and cadastrian municipalities, immediately defined by that, through the whole process and the final part, it's the entry right of immovable property, i.e. on buildings and on land. Geodetic activity simply has great responsibility for implementing this law. I hope that they will find ways and opportunities to simply implement this into the work, and especially what certain credit lines will act in the framework of the Republic Geodetic Institute, and I hope that this money will be used in the right way for the state to get that speed and efficiency and overall development through the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute, so I expect it to be done by the leadership of the Republic Geodetic Institute with your help and simply implement this in depth, according to the outturns of the Republic Geodetic Institute, popularly referred to as the monasters, because it is the backbone of the Republic Geodetic Institute. If it is implemented in depth and at the level of local self-government, where local self-governments and monasteries work in one space and for the same citizens, then it will certainly be good. Furthermore, what's here, I think, fellow Bosniak, if I remember it well, I think she's paying attention to one important thing and is fundamentally changing this law, which is, I'd say it's a bold division of responsibility, and that's her formal and essential responsibility. The formal implementation of state institutions and public enterprises, while we essentially move to the level of designers, supervision, technical reception, etc., so I think it's a very good thing and I think it's the first time that this kind of division is offered in legal form. I hope that's how it's gonna be adopted. In the end, I am obliged to say, I have been consulted by certain design houses, certain performers' houses, what they have consulted me and asked me to say at today's session, which is that the law is good, that they see through this law and their interest, which is very good, but an honest interest and that they support to the greatest extent the adoption of such a law. On their behalf and on my behalf, thank you and I hope that in the day of the vote we will bring this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15091	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15092	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, before us today I have been law and amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, which is certainly a reform law in line with all those reform laws that the Government has been making since the day of its formation, which is 27 April this year, promised, and which she said would be passed. Of course, this law except for reform, it is very important from a legal point of view, because it is a roof law in a legal sense and protects the legal security of all participants in the planning and construction process. It is also important from an economic point of view because one quite fallen, and a very significant branch of industry, which is the construction industry, creates an assumption of strengthening the construction industry, which and how it can be a significant momentum and a driver of our country's economic development. It is also no less significant from an anti-corruption point of view. So this law is an anti-corruption law. What I particularly want to point out is transparency in the adoption of this law. In that sense, I would like to commend the government, primarily the competent ministry. This transparency and this public has been present since July of this year, and in fact it is and what a good indicator of the quality of this law. Going especially to all administrative centres in Serbia, holding round tables, including the professional public, including the engineering chamber, including the Chamber of Commerce, including other ministries, certainly contributed significantly to improving the quality of the law itself. It's something I especially want to commend. Of course, I would also like to praise the analysis of this law and to compare it with parallel legal solutions in other countries, primarily Croatia, BiH, Macedonia and, of course, the tendency to approach European standards, or EU standards, on whose way we are. What I'm going to put an accent on, it's a compensation for the construction land, which, by this proposal of the Planning and Construction Act, does not have that name, but is called a contribution to building land. Why do I want to put an accent on this segment of the law? First of all, because NAED, who in his research found that the compensation for the construction land was a kind of parafiscal imposition, primarily for economic operators. These legal provisions try to change first in a termological sense, is no longer a fee, but a contribution to the construction land. The maximum amount that local self-governments can use is 10 to 15% of the price of a square meter building in that local self-government at the time of construction and, of course, give the ratio between the smallest and the highest amount, and this relationship is instead of the earlier 1:40 today by Bill 1:6. In line with this, I would also like to give a concrete example, which is an example concerning Belgrade, how much this law promotes, or lowers, this contribution. The price for the construction land for one meter of square space under the earlier law was 47,000 dinars, and according to this law proposed, the price per square metre in Belgrade, where the largest price per square metre is also the 25,000 dinars, which is 48% reduction. Of course, this bill will not pay that fee for infrastructure facilities, for detailed facilities, for storage facilities, which will also improve production, as well as the possibility of employment and new jobs. What I also want to point out is this united procedure, but from one completely different point of view, that is, the views this government advocates from its formation, which is the point of view of responsibility for everyone in the system that works for the interests of citizens and for the interests of investors. Shalter workers, it is high time we all had to understand, that all employees in public institutions should work in the interests of citizens, in the interest of cutting those deadlines, and that in fact public services exist in order to best meet and improve the quality of services. All that I've said is certainly the reasons why the SNS in the voting day will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15093	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15094	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Mr Arsic, Honorable Minister Mihajlovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this law on planning and construction has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, who submitted to us, the MPs, in this National Assembly and citizens of the Republic of Serbia during the election of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on 27 April, in Mr 2014. Gentlemen People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, allow me to remind you in one sentence, this exhibit by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic is the most extensive, most concrete, most accurate, most thorough of all 73 exposés in the recent history of Serbia, which the previous 72 president of the Republic of Serbia has submitted in the National Assembly since 1805, i.e. From the time of Prote Mateja Nenadovic to today. On the side of the 18th exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, next to all that, the government of the Republic of Serbia will bring a set of reform laws by the end of July this year. Please, I have to stop here. It is true that the opposition criticised that the exposé stands until July 17th, but it is not true what they claimed, maliciously, because the Prime Minister in this National Assembly, following the catastrophic floods that have hit our citizens, said that all reform laws will be passed by the end of this year and, as we will see, it will be fulfilled. Among these laws is the Law on Planning and Construction, which will, among other things, aim to "reduction of the number of investments involved in the process of issuing permits, to declare and open other bottlenecks and edit the office for quick answers, which will cut red tape and corruption that characterizes the civil sector. Our goal is to shorten the time of issue of construction permits from 170 days to 60, which would be below the average of European countries. “ Here it is, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law of planning and building. He arrived on time, therefore, by the end of the year on the benches of MPs, who quoted all of this from the Prime Minister's exposé, taking into account the fact that construction permits would be carried out even faster, not in 60 days, as they were, but for 28. This is how the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its President, Aleksandar Vucic, does so by system – written – promised – done. Serbia's modernisation aims, among other things, to strengthen its economy. Therefore, the way in which the rules in the area of planning and building the former government of the former regime were applied was an obstacle to the faster economic development of the Republic of Serbia. Aware of this, this government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, has prepared this proposal for a law on planning and construction, which analysed and used comparative legal solutions and experiences, both in the environment and in other international experiences. Therefore, respected citizens, it is a good thing that the basic objective of this law is to improve the conditions of construction in the Republic of Serbia, primarily by uniting the procedures for issuing building permits. It is not good that the former regime has created such conditions that the construction license procedure has been assessed as one of the worst in the world. Serbia was ranked after obtaining construction permits in 186th place of 189, as the issue of construction permits in Serbia lasted 260 days on average. It is good that this law of the current government of the Republic of Serbia will legalize waiting for building permits to be issued for just 28 days. I repeat to the citizens of Serbia – for just 28 days, not as the previous government and the former regime, to 269. In the end, let me say a few sentences of what's good. Dear citizens of Serbia, it is good for you that the application of this law will contribute to reducing the cost of the procedure. It is good that the application of this law will help reduce the time needed to obtain the permit, as I said, for 28 days. Thirdly, it is excellent that the application of this law will contribute more effectively to the work of state authorities. Fourthly, it is good that the application of this law will contribute to reducing the price of buildings built. Fifthly, it is great that the application of this law will contribute to the memory of corruption in construction and the destruction of bureaucracy that destroys our country and people. Sixthly, it is good that the application of this law will contribute to the harmonisation of our rules from planning and building with EU rules, international standards and international practice. Seven, it's great that the application of this law will help increase employment. Eight, it is good that the application of this law will contribute to attracting domestic and foreign investors. Nineth, it's great that the application of this law will help encourage construction. And 10th, it is good that the application of this law will contribute to the provision of the legal framework and the accuracy of the prescribed authorisation procedure. Let me say, in the end, I could list up to 300 things like this – it's good, but because of time, I really don't want to. All in all, citizens of the Republic of Serbia have received a very good law on planning and construction, which will contribute to the modernisation of Serbia, which is thus widely advocated and implemented by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, assisted by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. That is why I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, especially you, MPs from the opposition, because you are not really here, and I am sorry, to vote and support this law, because at least that way you will participate in the modernisation of Serbia, and it will certainly repay you greatly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15095	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Irena Aleksic, and let the MP Goran Mladenov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15096	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs and MPs, at least the rest of us, the law we are discussing today is one system law, and the envisaged amendments and additions aim to maximise our construction industry, in general, by making the process of obtaining a building permit clear, simple and transparent. The amendments and additions are also intended to eradicate corruption which is, unfortunately, present in this area and thus create a legal framework, which, most importantly, I would say, is reliable and predictable, because these are the only conditions under which investors want to build, encourage them to build because otherwise no one will invest their money unless it is absolutely certain that its legal rights are maximum protected. All a few sentences about the current situation in this area, such that changes and additions were necessary. There are a lot of ambiguities, a lot of indetermination, some things can be interpreted in different ways, and as soon as something can be interpreted in different ways, then it's a very good ground for the development of corruption. The question arises to whom does the procedure be so long, so vague? I'm afraid the answer to that question is self-inflicted, which is corruption in that ugliest form, so that everyone in the series that existed so far would be somehow satisfied. Unfortunately, our construction industry suffered, the citizens suffered. What's the problem is that one such situation has lasted too long, and as a result of one such business, we have a cadastre on which rarely anyone could envy us, we have a fall in the construction industry, and the process of issuing a building permit in the Republic of Serbia has been assessed as one of the worst in the world. According to a study organised by the World Bank, the Republic of Serbia is 186 out of 189 countries. One average time period needed to get permission in the state of Serbia, according to the same study, is amazing 269 days. It is an inadmissible period of time, and these new amendments and additions of laws provide that the time period is to be shortened, to eliminate a large number of administrative steps, more than half of them, and to reduce the number of days it takes to obtain a permit to 28 days, which is a great success and a great result compared to the previous figure. The envisaged changes and additions are also very important, and this is very important: it introduces a single-sharp system, which is a united procedure, which is very important because it covers all procedural steps. From now on, it will all end absolutely in one place, not to mention how much it facilitates and speeds up the whole procedure. When the procedure is united, I will stress that a register of united procedures is being introduced where all the data on each process in the Republic of Serbia is available and from the day on which a request for a building permit has been submitted, until the day of the use of the permit is obtained. So, absolutely all the acts that have been issued, which are handed over in electronic form, everything can be checked, everything is public and all of these data are united from registers at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia, are united in central records. All of this is because it would be as transparent as I think it would be the best thing in this law, so that everything can be checked if everything is done in accordance with the law, whether every procedure is respected, whether the deadlines are respected and the like. What we think is very good is that the building inspection is getting more authority, now insisting on their field work. Also, it is a very precise criminal policy, and I think that all changes and additions are very high-quality, I think that they will really create one positive atmosphere, one positive climate in terms of predictability, which is very important in order to encourage investors to build, work and thus create new jobs, which is the strategic goal of this government. That is why the SNS will support these amendments and additions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15097	The word is made by MP Goran Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15098	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, taking into account the World Bank's study and the defeating position on the ranking list taken by the state of Serbia as regards the procedure for issuing construction permits for 269 days, this is the basic reason for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on Planning and Construction. On the other hand, we have an application and a recommendation in the neighbouring country of Croatia in which the issue of a building permit lasts for an average of 30 days, and compared to the law that we are adopting today, which is similar to our neighbouring country which had 139 days until 1 January 2014, when this law came into force, this may be the best recommendation for the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Building that are very similar. There are a whole series of good solutions and provisions under this law and the proposed changes and additions that are worth talking about today. I'm going to try to isolate my humble opinion and single out those I think deserve special attention. In Article 2 paragraph 43, a new term of finance is introduced in which it is defined that the funder is a person who, on the basis of a contract concluded with the investor, finances, or co-finances construction, construction, reconstruction, adaptation, recovery, etc. facilities, which is to say that in cases where the owner or user of the land holding a building land permit, if there is no money, can be contracted, which is further defined by Article 135a to resort to the finding of cash by the financier which will enable the construction of a specific type building or for the purposes for which the investor owns a building permit and land owned by the owner, or the user. In this way, regardless of the evil languages we have heard today by the opposition, a kind of social symbiosis is allowed in which the investor and the financier edit their relations by contract and define the overture of the court, and the investor has a building permit of land, the financier provides money and enables construction, which certainly raises investment activities in a particular social community. Secondly, in Article 135(3), it has been established that local conditions, the building permit can be issued to the parcel user, not necessarily to the owner of the plot. This is also a good legal promotion, an important legal provision, because it is possible, given the practice that the majority of the land is owned by the Republic of Serbia, and private, legal and physical persons are mainly users and that they must make a conversion before obtaining a building permit. This legal provision allows you to obtain a building permit under certain conditions beyond the conversion, and we know from experience that the conversion of land from the right to use into property rights actually means sometimes a repurchase of that land. In this way, the time to wait for permission is shortened, costs are reduced, and anyone who takes care of the social moment he is present in our society, taking into account the economic crisis that is breaking Serbia at these moments. This also encourages investment activities. I would point out the provision of Article 133(6), which is also a legal improvement in which electronic communications facilities, i.e. a network of systems or funds that are of international and masteral importance and those built on the territory of two or more units of local self-government, are now within the authority of the ministry issuing a building permit. In other words, in practice, two local communities, i.e. municipalities, could not agree on priorities in the construction of certain objects that extend to the territory of two municipalities, whether it is a road infrastructure, waterway systems, pipelines or other important buildings having a regional character, one municipality is blocking another municipality in obtaining a building permit because it is not estimated to be of priority for construction and for that municipality. In this way, when the competent ministry is declared competent to issue a building permit, it will best regulate the relationship between the two municipalities, i.e. to assess whether the building permit should be issued for the construction of such important buildings, which are mainly regional. This law also defines the correction of the land border bordered by land that is in public property and the merger of the two parcels of the same owner into one parcel. The preparation project, which mainly costs from 600 to 1,000 euros in practice, is no longer required, but can be resolved by an embossed geodetic work now costing 200 to 300 euros, costing the process of obtaining a building permit. If we add to this that a time period is needed to draw up a preparation plan on average lasts from 30 to 60 days, and that the elaborate of geodetic works can now be carried out in five to six days, then there are clear improvements in this legal provision as well. As a fourth, it was a practice before, and it is also a day present today, that a body that provides conditions or consent to design by public authority holders, when public authorities say it is usually meant by public enterprises, public enterprises address their district representation. For example, in the case of "Serbian" they address the Pcinj County district’s district representation, the county’s representation continues to address its regional representation in Nis, which issue an opinion and which returns to the authority that provides conditions or consent. This time period, which has already been spent again, has to be addressed by the authority issuing the conditions and consent to the headquarters of the company and has happened after six months of the response, i.e. the conditions or consent. It has also happened, and this is a special case in "Serbia", again and there are conditions and consents faster or slower, easier or harder at "Serbia's Road" because of a complicated procedure, to get a response after six months on which to require the request to be completed, so that the overall procedure is restored to the beginning. So I would like to read in this article 86, which is key and which offers an opportunity to address this lack. Paragraph 2 states that the public authority holder is required to comply with the requirement laid down in Article 1 of this Article within 15 days of the date of receipt, and for the facilities referred to in Article 133, the ministry of this law is referred to within 30 days of the date of receipt of the request. If the public authority holder does not act within the time limit set out in Article 2(2), the competent authority shall stop the procedure and inform the investor thereof and submit a request for the initiation of the infringement procedure in accordance with Article 211 of this Act. This is an important promotion that forces public enterprises to be more up-to-date and make them shorten their procedures. It often happens at a local level that certain companies are late with conditions and consent. As a result, it is important that all MPs, all local authorities, all representatives of the province's executive authorities, have an impact on a more up-to-date resolution of these issues within public enterprises and on the shortening of the deadlines of the procedures for obtaining them. As five, I might single out perhaps the most interesting provision for me personally, and it refers to the compensation for the construction land, which is changing into a contribution. This law recognises the compensation as a parafiscal charge, for the purpose of the definition of compensation or tax equivalent to the service provided by a particular body, organisation or local self-government or public undertaking to the investor for the cash amount of compensation they charge him. We are often witnessing that local self-governments prescribe compensations that are not equivalent to services provided to other investors, and this analysis is particularly interesting, and this is very commendable for this ministry, which has been implemented for example. in 34 cities, where 1.43% of the local self-government budgets are found to be imposed. It essentially represents a very small position in the budget and revenues of local self-government, and it creates many problems on the ground. If we rule out the Tchaitin municipality, which has 31% of the income in the role of these 34 municipalities, then in the case of 33 municipalities, we conclude that in fact the compensation for the construction land is 0.52% of the total revenue of the budget. To make even worse trouble, it is 0.06% compensation for the construction land for the production facilities. This inducement discourages investors to invest or, in the extreme instance, force the investor into lawless construction, because the imposings are enormous, and revenues for local self-government are insignificant. It is therefore a good provision that prescribes 10% of the average cost of construction for new construction in buildings that a local self-government can prescribe. We have discussed at the level of leadership in Vladic's Han, and we agree to introduce, in support of the implementation of this law, the lowest possible price for compensation, i.e. now for a contribution to the construction land, in order to meet this legal provision, which we consider to be very high-quality because it recognises the problem. At the end of the resume. This is from those provisions a fundamental reform of building planning. The alignment with these amendments and additions is certainly done with European legislation, the time of obtaining a building permit is shortened, the number of necessary evidence required by the investor to submit, the activity in the construction sector is raised and all conditions for raising employment in the construction industry are created. I would take this opportunity just to take a brief look at the latest regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted on 20 November 2014, which refers to the spatial plan of the area of the Niš Infrastructure Corridor – the Macedonian border, refers to the loop, the Gramaj between Vladic's Han and Vranjska Banja, which according to five local self-governments is important for the development of the municipalities of Surdulica, Bosilegrad, Vranjska Banja, Vladic's Han and the Shop. For this loop, the project was left behind by the government of the Republic of Serbia, in which the SNS did not participate. I am pleased that the new regulation of this government, chaired by Aleksandar Vukic, has confirmed the loop in the spatial plan. We have discussed this in the Ministry, and I would like to take this opportunity to publicly run this topic and ask you again publicly that, if there is any chance, you do not give up this project, because this is the closest point for inclusion for the population of Vranjska Banja, because there is an industrial zone that has a spatial plan and a plan for detailed regulation in the municipality of Vladikin Han in the 350 hectares area, which offers a project for the next 20 to 30 years and we bring these laws to the perspective of our children and future generations that come and live better. An entire large Balkan town in the Pcin district can be implemented. It was also recognized by the City of Commerce as a chance for development. Bosilegrad and Surdulica also have a point of involvement. It is important for Vlasina as a tourist destination and certainly because of the proximity of the Bulgarian border, because it can be in perspective in the coming decades and point of inclusion and connection of some new corridors with the neighbouring country. I want to repeat once again that you have the full support of me personally and the SNS for the adoption of this law and in the perspective of its implementation. I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-12-04-0.u15099	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) Since no one is answering for a word, I am concluding a principled search of the bill. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
