ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10363	Thank you, Chairman. I hope this microphone today isn't as politically sensitive as yesterday, although the beginning doesn't promise. I would like to ask two questions to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I would like to remind you that I did not get an answer to the question I asked seven days ago. The question was, how much does it cost to hold a military parade? I prayed that I would get this notice by the start of the military parade so that the citizens of Serbia would know how much this event would cost them. Let me remind you once again, for those who make noises, that we support the arrival of Vladimir Putin and this opportunity and every other occasion, he is a welcome guest, because he belongs to the country allies of World War II. Of course, like any citizen of the Republic of Serbia, I ask about a thing that can interest people in Serbia, and that's how much is the Military Parade, and if it's possible to get it by the start of the military parade? There are two questions I will ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia today. It's one of the areas of the economy, one of the areas of health care. First, the area of economy concerns the law this ruling coalition passed a year and a half ago. It is the Law on time-limits for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions, where the State is alone, but also as the founder of public undertakings and companies in which the owner has an obligation to make payments within certain deadlines provided for by law. This is unfortunately not happening and the state is still the generator of the huge loss of companies operating with the state, or in a chain with the state, and therefore there are a large number of businesses still in bankruptcy today. For the very reason why the government passed the law, it is unfortunately not applicable. I ask the Government, above all the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Business, what is the number of public enterprises that do not comply with obligations in time according to the given law and what are the total responsibilities, i.e. the debts of the state and public enterprises owned by the companies with which they operate? The second question is health care. These days we had an announcement to tighten sanctions and amend the tobacco smoke protection law that was brought two and a half or three years ago. However, I would ask the Government, first of all, the Minister of Health – what are the effects of the laws on protection against tobacco smoke? How many cases have been prosecuted, or committed, against the responsible persons? We know that in Serbia about 20,000 people die annually as a result of tobacco smoke, using cigarettes actively or passively. That's not why we're making new laws that we won't apply unless the existing one applies to the end. I would also like to receive an answer from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia – is this law literally applied in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as from the Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia – is this law applied in the House in which it is voted? Please give me an answer so that we can adequately prepare ourselves for any changes and additions to this law. Finally another question, please, if it is possible to obtain urgent information as the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on beating up students at the Faculty of Philosophy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10364	Time. Thank you. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have a chance to ask two questions. My first question is to ask the Ministry of Energy and the director of "Serbiagas". In fact, a few days ago, it was somehow through silence, hidden information that there was a great probability, more specifically that it was already agreed that the route of the "South Stream", which was to pass through the Somborian Atar, was to be passed through the Sombor, The Tower and the Vrbas municipality, that during the night that this route had changed and that it would go through Subotica. No one wants to go public and make it clear if it's true. I'm using my and my parliamentary opportunity to ask this question and I hope we get clear answers. The question is, is that true? Who is it and when it's agreed and what are the reasons for things like this, and why are they hiding from the citizens? I must warn that in the past, we have had a number of similar situations where Sombor was literally stuck overnight, whether when it comes to the construction of the highway, a semi-route which is also on the spatial plan for 2010 to 2020 was included in the matter, and that literally no stone has been changed, nor has anything been done in this matter, I mean not only this government, but all those governments that have had the opportunity to deal with these problems since 2010, that Sombor is the city over which the nearest road to the EU is, that Sombor is a city that has very high potential, but unfortunately, exclusively, the game of politicians has become a appendix since the start of today, and the priorities have always been in some other cities, unfortunately, very often the priority was Subotic. Of course, I don't want to share our citizens, I don't want to share our cities in Serbia either. We've shared a lot in the past, it's time to get together, but not in a way that always gets one and the other suffers for it. My second question is to the Ministry of Health, Minister Lonchar. A recent study of "Life Without Memory" in Belgrade showed that as many as 60% of people in Serbia do not use any legal right to care. Their families therefore face problems that cannot be solved, unfortunately, without the help of the community. The sick can't eat on their own, get dressed, take a bath. The care provider is often able to get sick himself. And, of course, these people are not covered enough through the social system, and if we compare with the disabled, we will see that there is one huge proportion, and all those who care for people who are disabled and people who have a variety of diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, means severe diseases, may in fact give even more attention and financial opportunities when it comes to caring for people with disabilities. Unfortunately, my family had experience with both types of disease. I'm saying this from personal experience. I think this is an extremely important issue and that any help and change in this sense initiated by the ministry would allow easier care and care for people who have had Alzheimer's disease. My particular question is is, is there any possibility that this state of affairs will change and that people who care about these people will change their minds so that they know what their options are, and is there any possibility of finding greater rights, in the first place financially, for those taking care of Alzheimer's? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10366	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Milan Korac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10367	I would like to ask the Ministry of Education, because I was asked by a Mrs. Ljiljana Stankovic from New Vienna. She has graduated from the Faculty of Philosophy in Novi Sad and cannot be employed based on this degree, because she is challenged that the name that is in the diploma and master's conviction is not in the Calls Regulation. First, the diploma says the graduate philosopher is Serbian – Serbian literature and language, and it believes he is a professor of literature of Serbs. That's where the prefix was used at the beginning, and here in the end. I wouldn't be surprised if they didn't recognize this diploma in Croatia, because everything that inclines to Serbia they probably don't respect it, but that in the Republic of Serbia someone graduates from the Faculty of Philosophy and Serbian language and literature and that they can't get a job for two years, so for these reasons, she turned to the Ministry of Education in 2013 looking for an explanation why she can't get a job in high school, why they're contesting it. The ministry reports - The Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has forwarded your initiative to the Institute for the Advancement of Education and Education in order to give an expert opinion, the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education provided the Ministry with an opinion number 896/13, which, based on its insight into the documentation provided, proposes to supplement the rules by means of the academic name of the master professor of literature and language of the Serbian language and literature class in high school. The Ministry is in agreement with the opinion of the Bureau, which will be taken into account when the next amendment to that Regulation is made. Now I ask the question, how many years does it take for the Ministry to infuse the rulebook? We have heard here that another MP has asked that question, that a new calling has been introduced at a certain university. Normally, I first spoke to the Rector of the University of Novi Sad. When I showed him my degree and his conviction he wonders, he says, "What's the issue now, what's that question?" Simply, the child can't work because this name is not an adequate name in the rulebook. He says -- there are more cases like this, it's not just that case. Then I'm on the Education Committee, where were the Ministers and two State Secretarys present, asking that question – when will this rule be in place? It's been a year and four months since the Ministry reported that it would be in the rulebook, or that name introduced. I've been chasing the Ministry of State Secretarys for three months to finally resolve this issue, because a child who's graduated from a college who's been accredited and who normally works simply can't get a job because this name doesn't match the name in the rulebook. I ask the question, can the university willingly place names differently every year or does it have to stick to the name that exists in the rulebook? Looks like somebody's not doing the right thing here. First, how long does it take the Ministry, if it's been a year and four months since the minister reported that he's met all the conditions and that the rulebook would be innovated, that they didn't do it? So it's supposed to wait another year or two or three? What, to sue the state for damages for not being able to teach high school with his degree? I'd like an answer from the Ministry to finally respond when this will be implemented in practice, or that the rulebook is inoculated so that the child can work normally?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10368	Thank you, Mr. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10369	At the same time, I think we should get to know the government, that it's been going on for a year and a half, that the rule will be innovated, and that simply the Ministry doesn't do it, or because the minister at the Ministry has now been changed...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10370	Mr. Korach, please, time's up. You're talking half a minute more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10371	He used to be Zarko Obradovic, and now he's new. I think the administration has to work and respect, whether there's a change or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10372	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask three questions to the Foreign Minister, Mr. Dacic. The reason for my address is the recent decision by the mayor of Zadar, Bozidar Kalmeta, to remove the remains of the mined Serbian houses without the consent of their owners. I recall that the city authorities of Zadar tried the same thing in 2010, but then the Human Rights Office in Zagreb took the view that the removal of the ruins could be carried out only with the consent of their owners and that their removal without the consent of the owners would be a violation of the principle of integrity of ownership. I would like to remind the public in Serbia that during the war in a number of Croatian cities, therefore, outside the field of war operations, more than 10,000 Serbian houses and businesses were destroyed in classical terrorist actions. I'll just give you two examples. About 600 houses were torn down in the area of the town of Bjelovar. When Deputy Chief of Police Bjelovar, Croatia's Ivan Srnec, wanted the culprits to be determined, soon his house was mined. Also, an even more difficult example is the case of the city of Zadar, where there was a fierce fight with Serbs. The peak of the shooting was May 2, 1991, so-called A crystal night, when a mob armed with metal bars and sticks was breaking, it destroyed hundreds of Serbian houses and buildings. These facts show that it was not isolated incidents, but that there was an organised action co-ordinated from one centre, with the aim of sending a clear message to Serbs, that even in Croatian cities where there is no war there is no life and that it is best for them to move out of Croatia. I also want to say that the city of Zadar is persistent in its insistence to remove these ruins. The city authorities are pressured by Serbs who own these ruins to sign solutions on their removal, and if they do not sign that the city authorities will then remove them, but at the expense of the owners themselves. We think it's inadmissible, and in that sense, I want to ask three questions to Mr. Dacic. The first question – when will the Foreign Ministry start to the Croatian foreign initiative to ban the removal of mined Serbian houses and business facilities, until agreement is reached with owners on how to compensate or rebuild these facilities in former gauges or otherwise? The second question - when will the Foreign Ministry launch an initiative towards the Croatian side to finally process the employers, perpetrators related to the demolition of more than 10,000 Serbian houses and businesses in Croatian cities where there were no acts of war? Finally third question – when will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs launch an initiative towards the Croatian side to find a final solution to the compensation for these destroyed buildings, or houses? I suggest next. The 1996 Normalisation Agreement also provides for the establishment of a Commission for damages compensation. The commission was founded in 1997 and held 13 meetings until the start of the SRJ bombing in 1999. After 2000, her work died completely and she hasn't worked for 15 years. The commission's goal is to finally draw up a draft damage compensation agreement and to define ways that owners of destroyed 10,000 Serbian houses and business facilities in Croatian cities will finally be compensated. We believe that this is a very important issue and that without resolving this issue, we cannot talk about the full application of the Serbia-Croatia relations normalisation agreement and we cannot talk about a sincere reconciliation between the two nations and the best relations between the two countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10374	Thank you, Mr. Linta. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although the government is trying all the time not to provide answers to our questions, we will continue to do so, even today. So my question was addressed to the defence minister, Mr. Gasic, and related to the Holding Corporation "Krusik", which was presented at one of the previous sessions with a series of untruths from the majority. My question is – what will Mr. Gasic and the Serbian Government do according to this frampantic data? At a session of the Krusika Supervisory Board, held on 26 September 2014, the results of the business were presented for the period from 1 January to 31 August 2014 in "Krusik" in Valjevo. Total realisation for the first eight months of this year is 632 million and 731 dinar. The total realisation for the first eight months of 2013 is 675 million. So, realisation in Krusik is only for the first eight months less by 6% than for the same period of the previous year. The last annual plan was reached with only 31%. Exports are 16% lower than in the same period in 2013. Total revenues for the first eight months are 649 million and 900,000, and the total revenue for the first eight months of 2013 is 696 million. Therefore, revenues are even 7% lower than in 2013 and not 2.53 times higher, as reported more times by the distinguished representatives of the majority. So, the financial result -- there was a loss of 316 million and 225 thousand this year. In eight months 2013, since you were in power, a loss of 492 million has been achieved. This data is absolutely being denied by Mr. Gasic, Mr. Babic and Mr. Djukanovic, who brought it here without checking. So, for the first eight months, including contracts signed and implemented in 2013, it shows that the situation is far worse than the data presented here, and it should not be forgotten that the employees of Krusik received a minimum for the observed period of 2014, while they received normal earnings for the same period in 2013. Krusik pays employees, dear colleagues, minimum earnings, survives and survives from loans received from the SDPR and the Valjevo Kovac Centre. There is also a reference to some audience that today's director uses every day at the Belgrade-Valjevo-Belgrade route and in just eight months he has completely torn it apart and destroyed it. So my question to Mr. Gasic is what will he do about it? The second issue concerns the Lasta company in Belgrade. Since we have spoken to several representatives of several unions from Lasta, we are asking to make sure that these data are correct that they are delivering. In that sense, we are asking the Minister of Industry and we are asking to hear their point of view on all of this. Is it true that "Lasté" management has over 300 vehicles at its constant disposal without any control? Is it true that "Lasté" workers have not received their salary for two months, and managers in the same company have salaries of 150 to 350 000 dinars in the same period? Is it true that Mr Babic, who resigned here, still receives salary in "Lasta", as they claim, and I do not believe? The third question is for the finance minister, and the question for the distinguished Mr Arsic, I hope here present – when and in what way will Mr Cirovic of the Securities Commission be removed, since he continued from our last meeting with his practice of incredibly uncontrollable official travels, chicaning and mobbing employees, and the situation in the Commission, a very important authority, has brought to the brink of the complete market of securities of value, only because one man signes everything to himself and determines himself without any control and without any consequences for his unhappiness and wheezing employees? A fourth question for the minister of justice – how and when will Serbian lawyers who are on strike for a truly wrong, full of mistakes and an unconstitutional Law on public notebooks, who has paralysed the Serbian judiciary to a situation where it is unsustainable and where people who are convicted of serious crimes cannot get justice at all because the minister of justice refuses to comply with the legitimate, legal and justified laws of Serbian lawyers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10376	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to ask for an explanation? (No) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Miroslav Markicevic, Momo Colaković, Sinisa Maksimovic, Borisav Kovacevic, Stefana Miladinović, Marjana Maras, Dubravka Filipovski, Dr Dragana Barišić, Branko Djurović, Milorad Mijatović, Meso Omerović and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals of the laws referred to in points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda and on the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the protection of natural and other disasters; a bill on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of the international border crossing between Vračev Gaj and Sokol at the Serbian-Romanian state border; and a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of the international border crossing of the Golubac and Nova Moldova on the Serbian-Roman state border. According to Article 90(1), I, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, inform you that in the context of a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Milorad Todorovic, the secretary of the Interior Ministry, as well as Mr Velimir Ilic, the minister without portfolio. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of the Parliament. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the protection of natural and other disasters; Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the mutual recognition of driving licences; Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of the international border crossing between Vrače Gaj and Sokol at the Serbian-Romanian state border, and a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of the international border crossing of Golubac and Nova Moldova on the Serbian-Roman state border. Does the word want Mr Velimir Ilic, minister without portfolio? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10377	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, four ratification laws have been proposed at today's meeting. The first law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the protection of natural and other disasters, and the second law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on mutual recognition of driving licences, the third law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of the international border crossing between Vračev Gaj, Serbia and Sokol, at the Serbian-Romanian state border, and the fourth law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of the international border crossing of Golubac, the Republic of Serbia and Nova Moldova, Romania at the Serbian-Roman state border. Dear People's MPs, you know this agreement that is signed and which is now ratified in co-operation with the Republic of Croatia in the event of natural disasters, we will simply have the opportunity to adopt such similar agreements with other countries in the environment. Europe wants these regional centres in terms of elemental disasters to be as large, more grouped as possible and more surrounding countries to be involved, if natural disasters occur, and primarily in the defense of fires, in defence of urban clouds, in floods, etc. So please accept this. We work extremely well with the Croats and we are naturally bound, because we have a large river that flows through Croatia and through the Republic of Serbia, of course, and buys all the water from that area, and passes through Serbia, which is the Sava River. You know that there is a Sava Commission based in Zagreb, that this is extremely important and that we must have one good co-operation. These months, we are running an intensive campaign and talks with certain countries that anti-building protection also works mainly in a multi-state area, because the city clouds that are coming are jeopardizing more countries. Of course, we've also had basic exceptional accidents this year, because the damages are over a billion and 700 million, but the waters have come from countries in the environment, and that's why we're interested in unique defense systems against elemental disasters. I think this is a good way and a way to defend ourselves together and against fire, to have strong regional centres from which we can act and defend ourselves. Also, as for earthquakes and various problems that will arise. We're naturally tied up. The fire doesn't know the limit. Floods don't know the limit. That's why we have to work together. We have defended the parts of our territory, but from Croatia certain water came from behind us, and flooded some of our premises. As for confirming the Agreement with Macedonia on mutual recognition of driving licences, it would make it very much easier for our transit drivers, who drive very easily across borders, not to have to draw international permits, but to use transit to be very fast and operational and to be able to act on Macedonia's territory and on Serbia's territory. It is of general interest and is wanted by many carriers and drivers from Serbia and also from Macedonia. These two border crossings that are opening towards Romania are demands from citizens from border zones, and from our citizens, as well as from Romanian citizens. They want to join in certain places and to move more easily from country to country. Now as members of the EU and Romania, which is already a full member of the EU, we also have a common interest in communicating as quickly as possible, speeding up traffic, exchange of goods, and of course citizens are simply in a situation where they cross border crossings very quickly and easily and simply achieve communication with another city, with another river bank in the border zone. I think all these four ratifications of the agreement will be accepted and there will be no problems, because it is all in the interest of our country, and of course our neighbours in the environment. Thank you, and I hope we can speed up together that this process is simple and ratified.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10378	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Djordje Kosanic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10379	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are facing today a joint single search of four draft laws, first two draft laws confirming an agreement on the opening of two border crossings between Serbia and Romania, then a draft law between Serbia and Croatia on co-operation against natural and other disasters and a proposal for a law confirming the agreement between Serbia and Macedonia on mutual recognition of driving licences. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will certainly support the bills mentioned, first of all speaking about the signing of two agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of two international border crossings, first of all the Golubac in the Republic of Serbia and Nova Moldova in Romania and Vracev Gaj, the Republic of Serbia and Sokol in Romania, at the Serbian-Roman state border. It should be said that these agreements have already been concluded because the two countries' mutual will to open new border crossings made it easier for citizens to cross both Serbia and Romania, as well as for the fact that there is a significant percentage of the Romanian and Vlach population living in the border zone as well as the existence of a historical connection between the two states. The realisation of these agreements, which were concluded in December 2013, allows for the first implementation of the ferry transition project between Golubc and Nova Moldova to the Danube, which takes place under the IPA through Romania-Serbia border programme worth 2,352,674 euros. This period of what practically covers? It includes the arrangement of the Golubac border crossing in Vinc on the Serbian side, the arrangement of the access route from Velika Gradište to Vinac and the acquisition of the ferry. A bridge construction project on the Nera River under the IPA via the Romanian-Serbia border programme worth 1,633,277,00 euros. This project practically includes building a bridge at Vrančev gaj Sokol, and editing the border crossing with the entire infrastructure. What exactly are these projects? Of course, these projects are of great importance for both Serbia and Romania, as opening these border crossings contributes to the economic development of the region, i.e. opportunities for better flow of passengers and goods. When we talk about goods, it should be said that Romania as the largest neighbouring country represents a significant economic partner for Serbia. The investment of Romanian firms by 2010, or more precisely from 2005 to 2010, was only $31.3m, but foreign trade was increasing from year to year. Economic areas in which the two countries traditionally co-operate are energy, metal, machinery and chemical industries. However, trade in goods, it should be said, requires an increase in Serbian exports, primarily agricultural imaginations and connections, machinery and parts for cars, construction materials, food, pharmaceutical products, black and colored metallurgy, drugs and medical equipment. Here, indeed, it should be said that in past times, the symbol of good co-operation between Serbia and Romania is the Đerdap hydroenergy system, a major construction venture that was released in 1970. In short, the two remaining agreements in this joint single search, firstly the draft law on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Croatia, on co-operation in the protection of natural and other disasters. What is practically this Agreement? With this agreement signed by the interior ministers of Serbia and Croatia, Nebojsa Stefanovic and Ranko Ostojic, which should be clearly said, it certainly provides a new institutional framework for the two countries to establish even better co-operation in various areas, allowing the two countries to co-operate against natural and other disasters, such as: flood protection, earthquakes, fires, environmental pollution, river navigation accidents, radiological dangers, as well as industrial and other disasters. In practice, this Agreement, when one of the Contracting Parties requests assistance, is unable to counter the consequences of the disaster, the other party will provide assistance in accordance with the opportunities available. Certainly, in the day of voting, the Single Serbia will support this agreement or the bill. Finally, speaking about the draft law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and Macedonia on mutual recognition of driving licences, it should be said that this agreement allows citizens of Serbia with a regulated stay in Macedonia to replace national driving licences for valid Macedonian driving licences. The same important thing, with this agreement, Serbian citizens will be able to transit through Macedonia using a national driver's license without the obligation to extract an international driver's license. And finally, I would like to say that each agreement provides a broad range of opportunities for co-operation in other areas as well. With that in line, I would like to say first, as far as co-operation with Macedonia is concerned, that Serbia is one of the most important foreign-trade partners of the Republic of Macedonia. The trade in goods in 2013 amounted to 843.26m euros. Our exports were 581,67m euros and imports of 261,59m euros. If all the potentials of both trades were to be exploited, it would be estimated that they would increase to as much as 1 billion euros, and I'm deliberately talking to every country that we need to boost our exports. As for Serbia and Croatia, the total trade in goods in 2013 amounted to $859.8m. The total exchange of Serbia and Croatia in March 2014 was $20.5m and increased by 10.9% compared to the same period in 2013. Here it is said that the surplus in the trade on the side of Serbia was $6.3m. At the very end, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all proposals of the law from this joint single search. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10380	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10381	Thank you. Dear President, Honorable Minister Ilic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we here today have four interstate agreements, me and the parliamentary group I represent will support these agreements and in voting day we will vote for these agreements, we believe that they are useful for the Republic of Serbia, each in their own way. Dear Mr. Ilic, you are here today, primarily because of the Agreement with the Republic of Croatia, which concerns co-operation in removing the consequences of disasters. Of course, you're here to defend these three agreements, and I would love it more explicitly if you were here when the great floods were happening in Serbia. Namely, you're the minister in charge of emergency situations and you weren't there, and I have no doubt that you were in the field, but somehow you were being removed from the cameras. I suppose it is not up to you, but those who decide who will be seen in the second, third journal, but for the citizens of Serbia, it is of course important to know whether the minister is in charge of a particular area, is competent to do his job. I can say that I know that you, when the floods were in Jasa Tomic, worked well in co-operation with the province administration and that this job was well done, along with the failures it always has, and that Jasa Tomic was brought into order very quickly. Houses, infrastructure and so on were built. I remember those days, there's something else that you and I agree on, and in which I could somehow support you, and that's the fact that I and you, and I think you, too, that Mr Blagojevic, who runs the flood recovery, is incompetent and that he does what he does, does very badly and the whole government and that the reconstruction goes very slowly. I'm talking about the consequences of everything that happened and the removal of the effects of the flood that hit Serbia this spring. This agreement with Croatia is important in this sense, that it, by its very name, creates a basis for Serbia and Croatia working together to remove the consequences of emergency situations and is called the Agreement on Co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in protection against natural and other disasters. There is one question, which I would like to hear from you, which is, the Serbian government reacted after the flood, when the floods had already occurred, and two years ago, the work of this government had not been done and there was not a meter of protection fences, or river belts that, by their nature, could be blue areas around them. The government of Serbia and the government of Croatia acted subsequently, so after the floods took place. In that sense, this is responsible on the one hand, and irresponsible on the other. So it seems when we've been hit by a natural disaster and something that's gonna take years to get rid of. This agreement, in my opinion, also lacks the part concerning prevention in terms of the construction of protective misery, areas that could threaten both the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So this is about prevention, not in the sense that both countries will work together to create such conditions that these, I'm talking about floods, other natural disasters are another thing, they're also regulated here, and in that sense they can be warned, we know that fires spread from one country to another. We have had cases of fires occurring in the border area of Croatia crossing the Republic of Croatia because the fires do not know the borders as we know it, and then some corridors are being made in serious countries that these fires cannot cross not only the borders but they cannot affect larger areas, there is no such thing in this agreement. What I particularly remember when I see the Agreement with the Republic of Croatia, I remember the fact that this government for two and a half years, this ruling coalition, has no bilateral agreements, nor is it working to resolve open issues between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. For example, most open issues, there is almost no open issue between the two countries that can be opened without being open between these two countries and the question of missing and border issues and the issue of refugee returns, etc. A colleague earlier asked a parliamentary question about the problems that Serbian citizens have with which property has not been renovated in Croatia. So my initiative to the government is not only to deal with these issues when problems arise. Some problems have arisen long ago, but they're pushed under the carpet and not solved. They are not solved because governments do not feel that a number, thousands of citizens have a number of unresolved issues, and these unresolved issues can be a problem between these two countries and some other countries when certain economic problems arise, political tensions, and then these issues are being removed under the carpet and then tensions arise and they usually get minority citizens across the back, so in this case, Serbs in Croatia. We will also support this agreement with this inadequacy. We will also support an agreement opening two new border crossings towards the Republic of Romania between Vracjevo Gaja in the Republic of Serbia and Sokola in Romania and between Golupac in the Republic of Serbia and New Orleans in Romania. Opening border crossings is very important. That's what it's all about. This means economic, the possibility of a faster economic development of border areas, opportunities for the flow of goods, money, opportunities for these regions to come to life. Unfortunately, the last 20 years, very few border crossings have been open. So there are crossing points that work once a year when some of the celebrations in the area of Somboro, the Subotic Municipality, are in the area towards Romania and after that they close. These are so-called temporary border crossings, people have to travel 100-150km to cross the border with Romania, let's say Hungary, and there are places across the street, cities they could co-operate with. Why? Well, because those places are somewhere along the border and nobody's taking care of them. And in that sense, it's a good thing that these contracts, which these agreements are signed, but the initiative was through IPA projects and it's practically all funded through the IPA project and when it comes to the engagement of a ship that will drive a ferry between one and the other borders and where the bridge will be built if two shores were joined. It is a good thing, but I say, it will remain with the big question of citizens, let's say the Somborian municipalities, the Subotic municipalities along the border towards Bulgaria, why some of these crossings are not open in the area as well. What certainly falls into the eyes of anyone who mentions border crossings is the fact that our border crossings are mildly said disastrous. I've crossed almost the Ilock-Back Palanca border crossing. It's a border crossing that connects the "Marsal Tito" bridge, I think it was called, Mr. Stefanovic, you know it well, and it's a bridge a mile long at a free estimate. The fence up to half of the bridge is painted you assume on the Croatian side, and the Serbian side's fence is down. Up to half the bridge is lit, and from half the bridge on the Serbian side there is no lighting. It's a disgrace to the state. What impression does an EU citizen or any country entering the country have, and when he sees the flag of Serbia, it falls dark? That's inadmissible. I passed that bridge a month ago. Apparently, some thieves took a cable that connects, or powers that part of the bridge, and probably no one is in charge, not those in Backo Palanca, or those in Belgrade, and so that bridge stands, collapses, paints one government, one state. Unfortunately, our crossings and other crossings are similar. So, when you cross from our side, from any direction you enter, Hungary or any other state, not a cut, abandoned tablet marked by Serbia, is missing half a table, or Serbia is missing or the Republic of Serbia is missing. Someone took it and recycled it. We've passed the law on that occasion. It's a shame. It's a shame, Mr. Ilich. So, I'm talking about opening new crossings. We can't maintain these existing ones. Is anyone in this country even involved, let's say, with some image of the Republic of Serbia? Is anyone concerned with how a foreigner who passes that border crossing will see Serbia when it crosses and enters it? Try to, if he allows you to say something at the government, try to pass on these impressions of me, I think they are the impressions of Serbian citizens. Not just the citizens of Serbia, all those who have passed through the Republic of Serbia. I hope we'll get more information about the removal of the effects of the flood, to see what co-operation is with the Republic of Croatia and on that matter. I'm sorry, Mr. Ilic, that I have to get information about the Obrenovac by going to Obrenovac and going to Obrenovac, to see how the reconstruction is going and what I have to get through Al Jazira. Unfortunately, I received information about the situation in the flooded areas adequately only through Al Jazeera. You know how popular this television has become and whose statements it has made in its own time, but unfortunately in Serbia we have no media to find out what is going on with the restoration of flooded areas. Is that okay, Mr. Ilic? You were here in 2000 when we fought for freedom of information, you were very active, how come you kept your mouth shut about all this? How come you keep your mouth shut, that you can't tell a little bit more detail about all of your impressions about the restoration of the earth? Some people will freeze this winter. We have received a promise that the restoration will be completed by autumn. It's been a month since the beginning of autumn. It's fortunate that these days was relatively nice weather, but nights aren't a bit warm, mornings aren't a bit warm and some people are freezing and some people are just gonna freeze. What's said to be restored, we know how much has been restored. The most where it's reached is to the ground, where the rebuilding is done by the state. I see that the diaspora fund, that it's engaged in the restoration of thirty houses, that many other donors have taken practically rebuilding into their own hands because they see that the state is not working. Mr. Ilichu, you have a great responsibility. You're the minister in charge of emergency situations. I suppose there should be, by some logic, a restoration of these consequences of natural disasters. I don't think they gave it to you. I don't know who he's in, who's boss of Mark Blagojevic, and does he even have a boss? Who's gonna be responsible, or is that exactly why he's set up, so no one's gonna be responsible afterwards? Not to mention I didn't say anything about an agreement with the Republic of Macedonia on the recognition of driver's licenses, I think it's a good deal. So this agreement refers to transit through Macedonia. So citizens travelling through Macedonia, for example to Greece, will no longer have to take an international driver's license, and automatic replacement of driver's licenses will be allowed without any special procedure. In that sense, in the voting day, I will vote for these agreements and our parliamentary group, but all these open issues remain. Some of them are very, very bitter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10382	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has a minister in Vladimr Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10383	I'd like to answer your questions very briefly. I agree with some of your suggestions that border crossings are the mirror of a state. When you enter the country, the first thing you see is a border crossing. The first impression you get is when you get to the border crossing and look at it. It's very important to maintain, to be street lighting, to be a bridge of paint, to be taken care of. I'm really going to intervene to do this, because in my time as minister I was in charge and reconstructed both Horgos and Batrovci and Djevgelija and everything down to Macedonia that was done etc. Everything was newly built, and the Republic of Serbia and Rač, so I tried my best to get it all in order. I hope we do now. As for the flood defense, I can't blame a government there. Thirty years have not been reconstructed, the oscillating rash, the savvy dikes. Twenty-five years has not been done in Grabovica. Twenty years old is an old project to protect Tekia, which has not been done, and now it's a disaster. Now I'm doing this project after 20 years and I'm gonna finish it in a month. It's a huge project. The predator is an extremely large project. 25 years of property-legal relations haven't been resolved yet. So, there's a series of governments that's been profiled and no one's solved it. Everyone said -- nothing is going to happen, as everyone says now about the biggest slide in Europe of all time -- nothing will happen, it won't happen, and experts say -- can the Umka slip any minute and build a lake to Sisak. So we can't say it won't happen. We have to stop it. I totally agree with you. Certain people who care about some of the territories that are being restored should respect the deadlines, and that is the word they give to respect. In eastern Serbia, I said -- I'll do it, it was September 15th, but in a month and a half, I'll finish it all, and those channels that haven't been done in 20-30 years. They're six meters deep. And those stops and protections, I'll do anything. When someone gives me an assignment to do something, I'll do it. I am pleased that now the Prime Minister has entrusted me with both Ljubovia and Krupanj and Mali Zvornik and all of Western Serbia and Luciana and Cačak. I'll finish it. He told me. You know how, you can do what someone gives you to do. As far as you're concerned, you're the one who needs to finish it. Anyone who takes a piece must also make a deadline that sets them off. Otherwise, it's embarrassing to come here and take bills. I remember Yasha Tomic. We said-- until winter, everyone will be moved in. In Međa and Bodanj, and so it all happened. It doesn't matter if it's the province government, who's there, who's here. We all did it together, because that people don't know and he doesn't care who's in power. He's interested in getting into a warm house when winter comes and in a warm school to get the kids in and never happen again. We had a project to protect the Obrenovec. Can the Obrenovac be permanently protected? Look, we can make houses now and work things out, and what do we do if it happens again in some period? We have to do it and let the public know. We can solve this permanently. Here, now we've been doing a project to permanently solve Tekia, so it never happens again. I'm glad that's where people came in and brought in the projects and they're handling it. Everyone's involved in helping. Both Gerdap and RTB Bor and they all came. We all have to work it out. Therefore, I hope that all the deadlines that my fellow ministers gave or some others who run certain institutions will be respected. Anyone who doesn't respect the deadline will have to explain when he comes here why he didn't respect it, because you're going to ask and need someone to give you an answer. So it has to work faster and it's true. Nobody slows it down, but it's important that the government has allowed and created conditions to end. All he needs is an organization. I can't say I'm complaining right now. I went to East Serbia to do it, but everything I needed, the government made it possible for me, but I asked. Do you understand? If you don't ask for what you need every day, no one will give it to you. Therefore, it is our duty to bring it into order as soon as possible. I hope it will be respected by winter. Many have promised and each one must keep his promises. I fully agree that these regional centres should exist, because many countries are reporting. Here, Greece seeks common protection, Romanians, Bulgarians. Those centers are extremely expensive. Why should we now hold some equipment, technique and use it or not all year round, and it can be used by neighbors to simply pay off very quickly and jointly to get equipment, etc. I've seen that a lot of equipment has been purchased. Something that has impressed me these days is equipment for these special fires in the refineries, facilities where fires are hard to put out. Now the most modern equipment in the world has been purchased, but we have to pay. We can't expect to achieve some kind of fire unit right now if there's some FAP out there 36 years old, but we have to do something about it, and it takes money. I repeat, it's been a problem for years. We had sanctions, wars. No one thought you were doing certain protections. Now we've paid the price. For this government, it's a lot for nine months of damage. All of it when you add it up to 1,700,000 dinars. In western Serbia, 800,000 creps have been broken. Imagine how many flights, how many roof buildings it takes. When we add it all together, the damage is huge. That's why prevention, prevention, that's what you're talking about. It's gotta be done. It's cheaper than when it happens, so we act on it. Thank you. I think you've made good suggestions. Thank you for voting and supporting these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10384	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10385	Dear Minister, honourable MPs, today we have four laws on the agenda to confirm important agreements, which are important for the Republic of Serbia. One agreement is between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in protecting against natural and other disasters. The second is the Agreement on mutual recognition of driving licences. The agreement has been concluded, and we are ratifying it today, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. We also have two agreements concluded between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of new cross-border crossings. Serbia continues through a fruitful and good international co-operation and that is one capital that gives for the future one guarantee that Serbia is a country with which to talk, which is interested in multiple co-operation with the world, with the entire international community, but also with its neighbours. It is very important that Serbia, above all, cooperates well with neighbouring countries and what co-operation with neighbours is important in the sense that this is a good recommendation that Serbia can co-operate with other countries that are more geographically distant. One who does not work well with neighbours, who argue with them, has no good guesses about what relations are in these relations with other countries, with other peoples in Europe and the world. The people say it's worth more to a good neighbor than to a brother born in a distant world. Of course, this condition should be taken, but this is certainly some truth in a practical sense. It simply imposes life, because at some point the neighbor is the one who can first help, if it is a good neighbor, if there is mutual respect, if there is good co-operation, then you can only see how important it is. Of course, co-operation should be enriched in all directions and it is important that Serbia, as a state, establish such one co-operation that regulates agreements that are ratified here, but it is also important that this co-operation exists between local self-government or some other associations on another plan, which is of course practice, especially in those local communities that are close to the border. When we talk about an agreement concluded between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the protection of natural and other disasters, I think it is clear enough that, before we had such an elemental disaster of large scales in the near past, this year in May. It repeated itself in some parts of the country later, and only then did we become aware of how important it was to respond in time when this elemental disaster came from afar or came from neighbors. Then that co-operation is necessary. Any praise is to conclude such an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it is important that today, after this debate, and to confirm here in the National Assembly and given what is a geographical position, it can even be said that Serbia is even more important to conclude one such co-operation and one such agreement with Croatia. This will certainly warn what will come at a certain point in the future, the natural disasters, whether these are floods, whether these are other disasters, whether they are incidents caused by accidents in industrial plants, etc. Another agreement that is important and should be supported and the SPS has always been on the point that all agreements that we conclude with other countries, whether in the environment, whether these countries are further away from us, should certainly be done, because it actually makes the entire country, our people, of course, and our citizens in certain aspects of life and work. Today, of course, we live in a country as well as other peoples in our countries, but these are not closed systems today, and also in the future, I think there will be even more live communication, exchange and people and goods and knowledge and information, etc., so that we are practically part of a free world, we are citizens of the country and we are connected and we depend on each other at every moment. We need to become aware of this, and of course we are not enough for ourselves, and others are not enough for themselves either. All the misunderstandings we may have with neighbors or other countries need to be smoothed out, energy should be invested, will be shown to agree and agree, because it is the only way to provide a better perspective in the future and some better benefits for our citizens and future generations. It is quite obvious here that it is important that we have mutual recognition of driving licences between Macedonia and Serbia. We know ourselves that we are in transit very often on the territory of Macedonia, whether in the course of the tourist season, but not only then, but also business people have their own transports, have the need for travel, etc., so it is one of the great benefits of traveling in one simple way, without administrative obstacles, without any difficulty traveling in different directions both north and south, and here it is about traveling through Macedonia. We also have people changing their place of residence, so that from many circumstances they can be found with a stay in Macedonia or vice versa, so it's quite positive, quite all right and for every commendation the opportunity to come to terms with the recognition of these documents. When we talk about agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of cross-border crossings, and this is about the cross-border crossing of the Golubac-Nova Moldova and we have another crossing, which is on the territory of the municipality of the White Church, Vracev gai-Sokol, I am pleased to support the conclusion of these agreements on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, so that before I, too, the president of the Parliamentary Group of Friendship with the parliamentarians of Romania and in contact with them, has proved to be, on the one hand and on the other hand, a great desire and need for these border crossings to continue to be opened, to simplify the procedures of these border crossings, although there are certain problems and therefore it is important that we continue to support the opening of these crossings. I must say that we believe that this is very important in order to continue economic co-operation with the Republic of Romania, but it is also important because the possibility of using IPA funds is realised, means the programme between Romania and Serbia on the use of the funds provided by Europe, and in that sense many programmes have already been implemented between certain local self-governments in Romania and the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of course it's in the interest, when we look at Serbia and the majority population, i.e. Serbs, but it is also important for the national minority of Romanians living in the Republic of Serbia, and certainly it is important for the Vlach national minority who lives in quite a number south of the Danube in eastern Serbia. Of course, I would say it's very important because there is great interest and interest in these people, these groups, both the majority people and the national minorities, to bring closer and stronger co-operation with us friendly Romania. So, regardless of the dominant awareness of the specificity of the Vlach entity, the Vlachs want full co-operation with Romania and have no prejudice whatsoever, they consider Romania a friendly country, Romania considers a country that can successfully and well co-operate with us and Vlasi is very happy to say, making contacts with Romanians, but, of course, they have their own awareness of its specificity, which does not exclude one good and fruitful co-operation that is in the interest of both sides. That co-operation, when we talk about neighbors, is both alive and more common because of the geographical position itself, because of the proximity, but it comes true in different spheres. There are already many agreements signed between individual local self-government on friendship and co-operation. On both sides of the cultural sphere, there is also great interest in co-operation between Serbia and Romania. I would also like to mention that Zavožina Dositeja Obradovica is in Temišvar, which is led by our distinguished fellow Member of Parliament Mira Dragas. It is of great importance that all the misunderstandings that we have in these relations and on other issues we try to solve in the best possible way without conflict, in one agreement, so that we can live together, on the other hand, better. So in this approach, with one view, the Socialist Party of Serbia supports the conclusion of all agreements with other countries, but of course with neighbours. In this direction, our government and our ministers should continue to build Serbia's policy. For these reasons, the Socialist Party of Serbia will be pleased to support the four agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10386	Thank you. Mr Zlata Djeric, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, today we have four international agreements ahead of us that the Republic of Serbia needs to sign, and above all with neighbouring countries. So, agreements that are regional type, especially useful for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, one refers to co-operation with the Republic of Croatia, our western neighbour, the other to Romania, our eastern neighbour, and one to the Republic of Macedonia, our southern neighbour. First, I will refer to an extremely important agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation and protection of natural and other disasters. First of all, this agreement is important for many reasons that allow us exactly what Mr. Minister was talking about, preventively to solve some of the problems we might have in the future. Natural and other disasters are something that neither state nor political borders nor any other kind of division recognises. According to the system of combined vessels, they spill as much power as they can, and their power is much greater and often hard to control by humans. So, regardless of the uncompromising attitudes we have in relations with Croatia, we realized and for the first time perhaps showed an extremely pragmatic approach and I hope that in many other fields we will act in this way. So, let's make an agreement that will help both us and the Republic of Croatia, first of all, preventative, and then later act when it comes to natural disasters and other disasters. In the very text of the Agreement, I will highlight a few of the most important moments. For example, in Article 2. — the objective of the Agreement is defined by the obligations of the Contracting Parties to assist each other in the event of a disaster and in the situation where any of them is unable to oppose the consequences of the disaster independently of its resources. So, I already said the disasters are large dimensions and small countries, as we and Croatia are at the moment, cannot have enough resources to counter and deal with such situations. Article 4 defines the obligation to exchange data in addresses and telecommunications connections between competent authorities and the obligation to have constantly available contacts, therefore, regardless of the time and circumstances. Given the need to further develop our economy and co-operation, it is an important provision in Article 6, where Contracting Parties are said to encourage the co-operation of economic operators and state bodies in the field of technological development and production in the implementation of joint protection and rescue programmes. Article 8 provides that contracting parties should promote mutual co-operation in order to train and perfect rescue teams in a wide range of ways. Of course, strategy, operatives and tactics are very important in accessing all the disasters that we have already mentioned. Our experience shows they can have huge exchanges. Solidarity is certainly on the basis of this Agreement, which also manifests the provision of Article 11. where one of the parties is expected to be able to self-initiate in the case of natural or other disasters on the territory of the other side to inform its partner of the opportunities it has at a specific time when it is concerned with the resources to save and provide assistance, including the rescue equipment that it can make available to it. Article 12 facilitates the procedure for crossing the state border for rescue teams and individuals participating in the rescue and provision of assistance and allows for the possibility of crossing and beyond official border crossings when the circumstances so require. The same member also, this is very important, prescribes that rescue team members cannot transfer firearms, ammunition and explosives across the border. A provision in the same article of the agreement is vital, which provides that the evacuated citizens of the Contracting Parties can, of course, cross the state line of anger at and outside the border crossings in the event of an extreme emergency. Article 13 says that bans and restrictions on international and goods transport do not apply to the transport of protective rescue and other equipment, as well as humanitarian aid, which in this case is really logical and beyond the necessary solution. In Article 14, the scope and method of use of military and fire-fighting aircraft belonging to one side of the territory of the other side is specified. Article 17 deals with the way aid costs are financed and is based on solidarity, reciprocity when defining that the aiding party does not have the right to request reimbursements from the other party. It is vital and a provision in Article 19 which provides that persons who have been evacuated for reasons of extreme urgency across the border provide all the necessary assistance, including accommodation, nutrition and medical assistance, until the moment the conditions for their return are obtained. As I mention, there are many more open issues in our relationship, a provision in Article 25 is important. The agreement that says – that the provisions of this agreement do not prejudge the establishment, demarcation and designation of the common state border of Serbia and Croatia. Good neighbourly relations are extremely important, we need to care for them, we need to improve them and I will remind you that our people say: "Better fenced by a good neighbor than by a strong fence", because a good neighborhood is the strongest fence. The agreement with our southern neighbour, Macedonia, will allow what is a historical relationship and what is a fact and a need, many of our citizens who are temporarily staying there can travel easier and easier and I think it will simplify and cheape travel through the territory of the Republic of Macedonia. So mutual recognition of driving licences will make our good neighbourly relations advanced, simplified, certainly make it possible for more quality ties between the Republic of Serbia and Macedonia. Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Romania on two new border crossings is very important, as it allows, we said, a better quality flow of goods and services, a more quality flow of people and maintaining good connections. We said that on both sides of the state border there was always a mixed population. So state borders are never identical to ethnic borders. What the opening of these two border crossings, which the minister quite nicely said were a mirror when entering one country, and we expect it to be and will be done to be our pride and that all the other border crossings will certainly improve and solve, correct and represent Serbia as it is worthy of being in front of Europe. But what I want to point out is that these two agreements certainly give me as an MP coming from Somboro hope that we will soon discuss some border crossings in Sombor, because we are extremely interested in the quality of the border crossing in Backo Breg, which is quite extreme at the moment, and enables Sombor not only to solve many of his economic issues. The Hungarian side is extremely interested in this border crossing. I think that there is greater interest in EU countries above all because this transition shortens the road to Europe in one direction by 120km, which is not significant at the moment when we all have in mind the economic crisis and savings in all fields. Also, there is interest in opening another border crossing in Sombor towards the Republic of Hungary, and I say that these two agreements give us hope that we will have the opportunity to speak to the government of the Republic of Serbia soon and perhaps resolve this favourably, not only in favour of the citizens of Somboro, but also in favour of the wider region of Vojvodina. New Serbia will support all four agreements in the voting day because, as we said, they are extremely important for the daily life of RS citizens, and what I have already mentioned, the first agreement with the Republic of Croatia is one of the laws that allows us to act preventively in many difficult situations, to warn them before they surprise us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10388	Thank you. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10389	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, we have here several agreements that are very useful and good for the RS, especially agreements with Macedonia and Romania on border crossings. The Democratic Party will support them, as will this proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the protection of natural and other disasters. What's true about this agreement, there are a few things we need to point out during this day of the congregation. First of all, the agreement comes to the Assembly after the signing of Dr Stefanovic, Minister, and Ranko Ostojić on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which took place on 15 July 2014, following the May floods. It can only be observed through the prism of the preventive action of the two states to protect and eliminate the effects of the flood, and not in any sense to be used to resuscitate what has happened to us. What does that tell us? Among other things, it tells us that your government is chronically unprepared for anything. She's always reacting and posters, always reacting when something's already happened. I've studied this agreement a little bit. There is nothing controversial about it, except there is no such thing as this hydrotechnical commission that should exist between the Republic of Serbia and Croatia and it has not been formed. I don't know if you know that, Minister Ilic, but we need to talk about floods, floods, prevention, and we don't have a hydrotechnical commission with the Republic of Croatia. The only way to communicate is through the Sava Commission. So here you see, that's the face of this regime. You don't have a basic thing. In Serbia, economic and social chaos and decay, we receive an agreement with Croatia on the prevention of floods signed for two months, three months after the flood, for example. It's a very unfavourable picture of this country. That's why the assembly is meeting to ratify the July-month agreements. Today in Serbia, we obviously have no more important work to do. You know, Minister Ilic, you were just talking, this agreement won't fix a single draft, that the citizens know that, this agreement won't help the Obrenovians who are still eating pâté or some of them living in the tent today. This agreement will not eliminate the consequences of Mark Blagojevic, as you said. You're the Minister of Emergency. This agreement concerns possible emergency situations, but you personally have absolutely no impact on anything related to the emergency situation that took place in Serbia in May. Not by your will, the will of the Prime Minister was invented by an office headed by Marko Blagojevic, who showed a high degree of inefficiency and incompetence, which we spoke of both in the Assembly and for what we asked the Government several times, and the Government did not choose to answer us. You're the Minister of Emergency. Through this agreement, it should prevent future adverse situations, an agreement signed by Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, who is not here, but you are here. So, we need to hear the answer to that question -- why is this so important at this point, that the Assembly is calling for us to discuss this, that's the first question? The second question - why do we always do everything after the accident happens to us and not before? The third question – will this agreement help in a technical, building sense to remove these irregularities and what kind of personal connection do you have to this? What do you have to do with the water flow regulation and the dam you were talking about earlier? Serbia is leading – yes, the Ministry of Agriculture in one part – yes, the Ministry of Building – yes, and what do you have to do with it? They won't give you, Mr. Ilich, to do your job and you understand that. They put Mark Blagojevic to finish the houses, set unreal deadlines, tell the people a story. There, in Obrenovac the situation is very bad and still, in some parts of the Obrenovac very bad. I simply cannot believe that in all this extremely unfavourable economic, social, institutional circumstances in the Republic of Serbia we are making an agreement that will regulate what our firefighters and Croatian firefighters will do when they meet. I'm not saying it doesn't matter, I'm just saying, I guess we have other priorities. I know you'd like to be in this assembly with me, let's say you sit here, so that you and I can ask Mark Blagojevic together, who would do well to come and answer our question, but there's no way that's gonna happen, let's ask him -- man, when are those houses gonna be ready, when is everybody gonna get the money? By what criteria and where are the 1003 money paid by the citizens, in which account are they specifically found, where are the answers to these questions? No, you didn't do this when you were in power, you didn't do this rash, they're their stories, but nobody cares anymore. Let him explain to the Obrenovci why it is important in the middle of the restoration to change the municipal government. In the middle of the renovation, it is important that we make our people's future coalition, the coalition behind which it stands, of course, all-seeing around Aleksandar Vukic. That's what we need to respond to, say, the Obrenovites. I'm sorry. This agreement is important because there is some basis for preventing these situations, but it is unclear how, except, of course, in an operational sense, who appears to whom, no harm is paid if it is done during the operations. It is known that rescuers cross the border, those who are damaged by floods or fires, etc. It's all useful, I really don't blame it, as I think it's good to open border crossings. Many citizens have also called our parliamentary club, I suppose, to welcome this decision, to speed it up. They asked for it to happen before. Here, we'll finally do it. We have, Mr. Ilic, not in your ministry, I don't even know if you're operationally acting as a ministry, but you have five, ten or more different assistants in the government, state secretary of wonders. None of these gentlemen are able to go through with one sign. You've now heard an example from Ilock and Back of the Palanca, which looks like a bridge. Such a situation is similar at other border crossings, except perhaps Batrovci and Horgos who, let's say, are a little better and thanks, as you know, to the funds that are partly received from the EU. The rest is in a very bad state. The one facing Macedonia is in quite a solid state, but everything else is very bad. Brooke and the shame for the Republic of Serbia that our national flag stands in the dark. Do you know what that means? It doesn't exist anywhere. The national flag must always be lit up. Where to be lit up, in Backo Palanca, when there's no electricity on the bridge? Some thief ripped off the cables. We do not have a hydrotechnical commission with Croatia, we do not have a solution to the border issue with Croatia, we have a number of other unresolved issues with Croatia, but here we will see, that I am banalizing, very important, what the two firefighters will do when they meet. Do you have any awareness, not of yourself, but of the government, how far above what the citizens expect you to bring to this assembly? Do you have the awareness, the political awareness, how much citizens want to solve the problem of floods and the recovery of what has been destroyed, to solve the problem of harmonics of roads, you know what it is and what it looks like to us for roads and bridges, to solve the issue of hiring a ruined economy, to solve the issue of institutions, to throw parties out of institutions, to resolve the issue of chronic lack of freedom and the abolition of emissions in this country?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10390	Mr. Stefanovic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10391	Thank you. So we have an agreement with the Republic of Croatia that everyone here will support, every MP, I'm sure. There's nothing here, my people, disputed, but there's no need, and they'll agree and the chairman, that people here take and read the arguments. I prayed several times, everyone has freedom of course, but I prayed – people, spare us that reading if you can. Minister Ilic, a man who has gone through 30 governments, figuratively, who entered this assembly in shoes and trainers along with all of us, he, a man, does not read, but says nicely from his head and doesn't mind. People listen to you more carefully than you tell them, they don't need an explanation. The agreement with Croatia, I see the chairman leaning towards the microphone, regulates these procedures – mutual notification in case of danger, etc. We hope that this agreement will not have its application, because this would mean that we have some disaster in Serbia, except for the disaster represented by this regime. So, we think it would be useful for you, Mr. Ilic, who you have and how you object to the work of various state authorities, to tell us here today, if you can, how the Croats have solved the consequences of the May floods to date, what are their results in the restoration of the dikes and houses, how much did it cost them and what is their account and where was their account and whether Croatian citizens could see it? Here, bilaterally, here's the deal. Let's put an amendment to this agreement so that we can see what the Croats see, by our government, that we can see where these money is, those funds that are citizens of Serbia and donors and all the good people have invested in rebuilding the consequences of the catastrophic floods in May. Let's compare it, not here to make, though necessary, an essential technical agreement. Of course, in October of this month we make an agreement on floods and fires, after everything, after unresolved issues with Croatia, many have talked about it, various other things that we are unable to solve. This government did not deal with policy for two years concerning the needs of citizens, including this one, but rather dealing with large things, the phenomenal forms of unfulfilled promises of a broken youth. Then when the question of the flood came and the rash broke, then -- well, you know what, maybe we could, but we were thinking about whether we were playing two pianos, five pianos. That's why we have a country today like it is today, and the state is in a very bad state, even worse than when we were in power, imagine what an amazing piece of information is. Just let the plane pass, one second. Just get the plane through and appreciate the exercise that's being conducted. The wit of the representatives of most far exceeds their knowledge of anything, but it is now another matter. In this assembly, I was really pleasantly surprised to see this package of agreements that have nothing to do with itself, which are useful to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which have enabled us, Ministers, to see you in this Assembly, that perhaps we are talking to you, to ask you some questions that are related to your portfolio, to hear how you would have solved that if you had been able to resolve it, that someone had given you a solution. That, for example, would be useful to the MPs now, if we heard about how you would solve the issue of unregulated embankments, paved roads, broken bridges in floods, to hear about how you would solve the problem of raising funds for the rebuilding of houses, building new houses. If only they'd let you, Minister Ilich, but they wouldn't let you. It's a very sad situation. I have to say that your experience with Yasha Tomic confirms that these things can be better solved, when it's a good organization and when there's a plan. I am sorry, although, of course, on the scale of destruction this flood was far greater and with much more serious consequences, that the government was absolutely able to react better, as it did not, rather to politics. Of course, we welcome the Agreement with Macedonia, which will allow our citizens to use their driving licenses, as well as Macedonian citizens in Serbia, without unnecessary administration, taking money from phantom traffic organisations that serve nothing. In that sense, we also welcome the agreement. The citizens of Banat and Golupca are grateful that by our single vote today, we will allow the opening of border crossings. It'll help their lives every day. You have parts of Banat, as you know, and eastern Serbia that live off communication with Romanian citizens, who come to buy cheap groceries in Serbia. The entire settlements live on today, Minister Ilic. What it says about Romanians is their business. What he's saying about us, I think it's clear. This country is slipping into misery. This country is slipping into total poverty. Today, by opening the crossings, this country allows at least the edges of the so-called edges of the Republic of Serbia to have a perspective and possibility of connecting traffic and trade. That is why we welcome it, but we ask you, Minister, to look back at these objections that are not so much about the text itself, but about the time in which it is brought, the way it is brought, the rock priorities of this government and everything else that we have tried in one way that, without trying to cause any quarrel, we present today in the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10392	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10393	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am on behalf of the SNS grateful to Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, Minister of the Interior, which he made and signed these agreements. I am also grateful to the assembly majority who will vote on these agreements in Dan for the vote, I believe tomorrow during the day, to vote and accept. These agreements are only one continuation of co-operation and good neighbourly relations that Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia has been developing over the past two and a half years. We are taking care of what is happening in Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Serbia has no aspirations to lead other countries, as was two and a half years ago. We don't even have a policy of fighting with countries in the region, we don't have a policy of building the best neighbourly relations. In addition, it confirms a visit here to the National Assembly and President of Hungary, Mr. Janos Ader, President of Slovenia, Mr. Turk, Croatian President, Mr. Ivo Josipovic, the Prime Minister of Montenegro and the president of the Montenegrin Parliament, Mr. Milo Djukanovic and Rank Krivokapic, the joint government with the Republika Srpska, the planning of joint meetings of the Serbian and Macedonian governments, and in ten days' visit to the Republic of Serbia will also be the president of Albania. Everything talks about respect, about the visibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, about the respect of Serbia and all our citizens and the fact that Serbia is a leader in the region and a stability factor in both the Balkans and this part of Europe. Of course, the most attractive and interesting was the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Government of Croatia on co-operation in the area of the protection of natural and other disasters. I'm not going as some of my predecessors to speak casually, I'm not going to speak hate-led, I'm not going to speak guided by what they would like to be and it's not, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia acted during the period of May floods, which no one wanted, acted responsibly, dynamically, because she put all her resources to make those damage less. When I talk about resources, I think primarily of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, but we could also see from the government's report that all other resources of the Government of the Republic of Serbia were subordinated to making the damage less and the number of human casualties smaller. The reconstruction is a permanent process. Refurbishment is something you can't do for the night, even though we'd all like to do for the night. I don't want to be guided by hate to confuse people in Serbia. Therefore, as a responsible parliamentary group and responsible people in the National Assembly, we have obtained and collected all relevant and accurate, not descriptive data. I'd be happy to give that answer for the public, but those people who don't want to hear, and they're sitting in this assembly, they won't hear this fact or this data. As for Obrenovac himself, who was the most endangered and suffered most, State aid has received 6,000 people so far. An additional donation from various organisations and companies was received by 2,000 more people. The heating system, as we enter the autumn and winter period, which was totally destroyed, all the heat substations, the pumps, the automatics started successfully. Ladies and gentlemen, the Obrenovac will not freeze this winter, but will have its warmth. What is a fact, and is related to Obrenovac, a schoolyard in Stublins, 1,707 square meters, the largest in the Balkans, is ready to open. Construction of Konatice waterway for 400 households is under way. The construction of sewers in the villages of Urovac and Krtinska, worth 60 million dinars, is under way. The construction of a gym in the center of Obrenovac is under way, in primary school, the facility is in the final phase, for the New Year is opening, and the value is 100 million dinars. The mayor of Belgrade, Mr. Sinisa Mali, is at least twice on those construction sites and visits Obrenovac at least twice. What is also very important for Obrenovac, which will receive its materialisation in less than a month's time, is that "Meita Group" proposed on November 11th the signing of a memorandum of understanding with Mr. Vukic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, for the opening of new jobs, the opening of production, and 1,400 Obrenovčana will be given a job by investing and pawning the government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. It's a government that takes care of its citizens. It is a government that behaves in a responsible manner in places that have indeed been affected by the catastrophic effects of the May floods. As for the rebuilding of the entire state, at the conclusion of October 10th... I would like colleagues, instead of playing x-ox, who have criticised here because they didn't have these answers, to write it down, to be remembered and shown, because it shows what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing at these moments. So a total of 15,058 households across Serbia, totalling 3,565,000 dinars, were paid by October 10th. The material aid in money was granted to 65 families, for the construction of a new house, worth 147.500,000 dinars. So far, the donations have provided construction of 216 houses, which have already been built or are in the process of completion. Of these 216 houses, 129 new houses are the EU's 32 municipalities in Serbia. Forty new houses from the donations of the United Arab Emirates to Obrenovac, Valjevo and Krupanj. Twenty-five new houses from Kuwaiti donations to Obrenovac. Twelve new houses from the "Pazova Donation for the Most Threatened in Baja Basta" donation. Ten new houses from Bliss Foundation donation and TV First, construction completed. These are facts, but I can see that colleagues who are so heartily critical of the government are now not even interesting to them. More than 15,000 households, almost all who have been granted solutions in addition to the state's direct assistance, receive assistance in money, materials or work on rebuilding houses from EU donations, Austria, the United States, Switzerland and through the organisation of the Red Cross Serbia, CARITAS, Mersi Corps, Adrija and others. I think it is time of 20 minutes to talk about everything that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done in the past months and what it will do and when it comes to public facilities and about agriculture, and when it comes to energy, I am sorry that Mr. Veselinovic is not interested in this, and when it comes to local infrastructure, and when it comes to what is most important transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to say that all the funds collected by donations, loans, contributions from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they took away from their young to give to those who lost everything in the floods, to whom I am extremely grateful, all the funds were being pooled and merged into one account by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. From that one account are spent and given and divided by those who are the most endangered. Completely transparent, completely public with Mr. Blagojevic's control, which is a non-partisan personality. Well, aren't we trying to do the detachment? Well, as for those of the department, their mouths are full of secession, they are now troubled by a man who is not party like Mr. Blagojevic. For the first time in Serbia is a list of all interventions, a list of all state aid users with type and the amount of assistance is published at an official Internet presentation by the Office. For the first time in Serbia, an open public procurement procedure is being applied to the removal of the consequences of natural disasters. For the first time in Serbia, information on all public procurements carried out under the Law on the Elimination of Floods is published at an official internet presentation. For the first time in Serbia, and there have been many elementary disasters so far, a list of all individual donors of natural and legal persons publicly available at the official internet presentation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These things related, and the projects that have been done or which are from areas and energy, and agriculture, and public infrastructure facilities, and water, will be spoken of by my colleagues when we speak of these agreements in principle. I will speak to you and return you a little and in the past 2010, a part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, my birthplace of the Kingdom, a decent and large city in Serbia, was struck by a major earthquake. Neither did that earthquake, which also had human victims, unfortunately, no one wanted anyone to plan or anyone loved what happened. 498 objects were damaged, 139 auxiliary facilities were damaged, the damage was enormous. How did the SNS behave during that period? As an opposition party, as a party that fought to promote the real values that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia recognized. The Serbian Progressive Party was affected by the earthquake by the town of Kraljevo in November and December 2010 through its members who shared the fate of Serbian citizens and who separated from their small one from the people in the Kingdom who were left without anything, collected a donation to money, construction material, carpentry, an electro-material worth 33 million and 915 dinars. In 2010 and 2011, the Serbian Progressive Party built six houses on the territory of the town of Kraljev according to projects prepared for the area of Mionica after the earthquake, with an area of 56, 63 and 80 square meters. It's how people who are responsible for politics deal with crisis situations. Why did previous speakers who so figuratively and stylishly attacked the Government of the Republic of Serbia say nothing was done, why they did not show by personal example how these parties of the former regimes behave in these situations. Why not even when they were in power in 2010. Personal donations, personal example, put your hand in your pocket and said – we don't have much, but we have this much. No, they're not. Encouraged by personal interests. Encouraged by the preservation of power. Encouraged by the increase in wages in public enterprises being held in power, new loans, new debts, but why didn't you gentlemen build at least one house in the King? The Serbian Progressive Party as an opposition, its donations, its members, the average, ordinary citizens of the Republic of Serbia, has restored six houses. What did you do now? I believe some members of the former regime have helped. I am truly grateful to all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who helped not only in Šapec to prevent much greater elemental disaster and disaster that has been brought to Capcu. I'm not saying that there were people who were also out of parties, who were also partying, who helped in those days and those nights, but what you were institutional. Then you could go as you went to Vojvodina Development Bank for an honorary word and coffee to get credits, who knows how big and who knows what kind. Then you could have done anything, why didn't you help build the King? Why still in the King's 34 houses are not, after 2010, those who care so much about the dynamics of our country's restoration and all of what I told you earlier and what the facts are. Maybe I wish it was all over, all restored. Why haven't the 34 family houses in the King been restored since 2010, yet? Two residential buildings in South Bogdan Street opposite the health center. Fourteen residential buildings haven't been refurbished on Dosite Street yet. But it was known that iron for foundation sold twice, invoiced twice. That's what you knew, it could. The foundation could be invoiced which, as much as Mr. Ilichu, you are the builder, what is the breadth of the foundation. It can't be something that's 30 centimeters wide, and it's invoiced to be 50 centimeters wide. It's a big difference. Here we see some litigation. I'm not gonna cheer anyone up or blame them. That's what the court will say. But, as you knew, that's how you did it. That's how you passed, so the citizens and the kings and the rest of Serbia believed you. The government of the Republic of Serbia has been defined to restore our country. We're grateful to friends from all sides who helped both in those times of crisis and hard times. We are grateful to friends from all over the world and from the EU, and to neighbours from surrounding countries who gave their donations and provided that this reconstruction goes with the dynamics it goes with. I am also grateful to the Government of Japan for providing us with a loan with a ten-year grace period with an interest rate of 0.01 per cent a year, with donated money. I'm grateful to all those responsible people who don't take it out on accidents, who aren't trying to make any small political points. And I would be much happier as a man, as a citizen of this country, not as someone who deals with politics if someone came here and said, "Here, my party has restored six houses like SNS did." No, they're not. They've got off phones, they've got power out of the party, they haven't even paid their bills, they haven't paid their bills, let alone pay their bills to the vulnerable. Now you and those guys are tripping further. They're still trying to make some small political point on the accident. I am certain and I believe both Mr. Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that none of the people who have lost their homes, without production, have many businessmen who have lost their production halls. We've got a lot of compromised jobs, that's gonna help everyone, like it did to 15,086 people to get to everyone. Will everyone be satisfied with the dynamics? Of course not everyone will be happy with the dynamics. Everyone would like it to be faster, but that someone would now, and I know that someone would jump now and say noise, anger, I don't know what. A moment ago, we saw hatred, and we hear this hatred, directed to the government, directed to us, directed to all those people who suggested us and gave us support to work. I'd rather they qualify for helping, what they built, what they did. Six houses – nothing. Now they didn't even stay here to hear the information that was official. I would also like to say once again that the SNS parliamentary group, not only support these proposals of the Agreement, will not only ratify them, but give full support to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for what it is doing and personal example and legal proposals and all, that Serbian citizens are affected by the floods, as soon as they start to live normally and with dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10394	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Stefanovic, you have no chance of a replica, as I have not given Mr. Babic. The word is made by Prime Minister Velimir Ilic of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10395	Dear MPs, I'd just like to draw attention to one very important thing for the public. We all look at the renovation, the construction after the flood and everything that happened through the houses, how many houses were built, how quickly they were built, etc. Now I want to mention one thing to you. For example, in eastern Serbia, all the houses that have been destroyed are cheaper than one bridge that has been shot down on a dunave sly. So large infrastructure facilities that are extremely damaged, their repair and correcting are extremely difficult. In Little Zvornik, there were damage to the pipeline extremely large. The damage to the slide that flew into Drin, where 63,000 cc's of stone crashed into the Drin and nearly bulked up to half. The way in, the technological extraction of that stone and getting out is more expensive than all the houses in Podrinj that were destroyed. Watch one thing, we always look at everything and measure it, for example. Is ten houses done or 15? Do you believe that in Tekia, for example? The three bulkheads that stop the lush water are more expensive and valuable than anything else there that is damaged and destroyed and these three stops donated their work RTB Bor and donated absolutely free of charge, of course with Gerdap which helped with oil and other and many public enterprises. I can't tell you how much the damage to the pumps, on the power grid, where the heavy load was sustained by certain companies that fixed the entire power lines, miles of networks. In Ljubljana, the biggest damage was in the Great Majdan mine, where we had such a glider where we had to do, now the end is being brought to an end, a channel that takes the river to run under the canal to avoid being compromised, that channel is over 300 meters long and some meters more expensive than any other damage that has occurred in that municipality. So I'm asking you to take a look through those big infrastructure facilities. When I go somewhere, I've worked extremely hard on these large infrastructure facilities, first I need their project, then a public tender, then construction of project documentation, then a performance part. That's why we've been trying now in this period to train these big infrastructure facilities to make the state work. It's not a question of building houses in Obrenovac right now, and in the first part of it, I was talking about it, but you know how much it's gonna cost to protect Gad Obrenovac? Ten, a hundred times more than building houses. Now we need to look for a technical solution to make Obrenovac a safe city. It's true, what was Mr. Babic talking about, that's where the investors came in, but you know what they were looking for first when they came in? To find their location in Obrenovac and sign that it is safe and 100% guaranteed that there will never be a flood there. When they got that and they got those locations and they checked it out, that a thousand-year-old water wouldn't compromise the factory they were building, they just started making contracts and building a factory. So we have a lot of work to do and this job is extremely complex. I repeat, we have located points that are risky in Serbia, which have not now hit floods. They've been located for 50 years. They are extremely dangerous, the City of Belgrade has 2,350 active rinks currently operating and of them is the deepest and most expensive recovery, and that is over 100m euros, just one glider, not to mention Stargare, Karaburma, the area of Grocka which is extremely sliding towards the Danube, not to talk about other areas now. So, Panceva's ass, it's very important that we now go into prevention, do a project by project, and try to remove something that might come never to come or if it comes to be a little, slightly. Serbia has not worked for 50 years on a water stop project. The first time we did it in Pazar, and there were no floods, and the bulkheads stopped the floodwaters, and now here in the Tekias, we're working all over Serbia. Now we're going to do a recovery of the chairs in Krupanj, which is the area where the material with heavy metals goes to Podrinje and threatens agricultural land. It's all huge and expensive projects. So please don't just watch and watch how many houses have been built, because what's worth making houses if there's no defensive embankments, if it's going to rain again. In eastern Serbia, we first set out to do defensive dikes, recoverys, stop dams, and yet to build houses, because what is worth doing under that house, first water, it is wiped out and re-relations in the Danube. We have large infrastructure facilities and I find it very ugly when someone asks me why the house wasn't built, and that's the simplest and least expensive, and the houses are, thank God, our builders build it under 300 and some euros per square, 320, 330, 340 euros, it doesn't matter, but they're cheap objects. Rehabilitation of certain cities is extremely difficult. Rehabilitation of Krupnja, the rehabilitation of the Cat's Stone, the rehabilitation of the largest slide in the center of Krupnja, there's a whole hill of slides and these are very expensive objects, and you can't see it. When you come and now explain to someone that you have destroyed the entire forest, that it no longer slips, that it threatens the city, the river, and the rest, they all say, well, what have you been doing? You say -- we stopped the hill, we did the project, we stopped it, we saved all the infrastructure facilities, etc. It's not worth fixing the road, it's worth leaving the rink. You know how big a slide is at Little Zvornik's? It slipped into the Drin 35,000 cc's of stone, and do you know how much it threatens to slide? It's skating 6.5 million cc's of stone, and it's supposed to stop the 6.5 million cc's of rock that's on its way. There are experts working on this project and we do it day and night. How do you stop three bulkheads from slipping all over the place and blocking Drina and causing a disaster? That slide took the bridge, threatened the bridge on Drina, tore up all the installations. There was no water, no gas, nothing. Therefore, I advocate that the profession does its part of the job, and that is why I urge as many engineers as possible to be involved in these matters. We have a good engineering ability and to solve these problems permanently, but I repeat, there is a lot of it throughout Serbia and we need to go gradually and where it has not been. It wasn't in Vlasotinc, but Vlasotince is a highly risky city. It hasn't been in some cities that are extremely risky cities yet, but we have to do it there too, so we don't experience what we've experienced in some cities. Thank you very much and I ask all the Members of the People to record dangerous points in their midst and invite us to come and do prevention. It's a preventative rescue for Serbia. Let's not let that happen, then let's all come and say, "Come on, now we're doing it all over again."
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10396	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. We move on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a joint single search. The word has a People's MP Milan Latkovic, and let the MP Ivana Stojiljković be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Milan Latkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10397	Thank you, Chairman. In my address today, I will talk about a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the protection of natural and other disasters. Recent catastrophic floods in the region have confirmed once again that natural disasters do not know the borders and that particularly countries in the Sava River Basin must come up with a quality solution to defend against water flows and other natural disasters. Serbia is in its natural and geographical position at its lowest level in the Sava River Basin, which is why it is of great importance to protect against any form of harmful water from floods, as well as issues of quality protection, bearing in mind that drinking water is supplied from the Sava basin by residents of Sremska Mitrovica, Sapca, Belgrade and other places. In these floods, the government of the two neighbouring countries has shown great solidarity and the fact is that Serbia and Croatia have so far co-operated in the framework of the IPA project, candidate programmes and potential EU candidates, on flood protection during 2012, as well as in the framework of an initiative for prevention and preparedness of disaster response in Southeast Europe. In addition, Serbia is actively involved in regional activities related to flood risk management through the work of the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River and the International Commission for the Sava River Basin. Although all these facts suggest that there has been co-operation in the region so far, the issue of natural and other disasters is still needed to be resolved systematically. It is this agreement, which we are discussing today, that is why it is extremely important, and for those of us who are from Srem, it is of special importance. The agreement, in a very clear and precise way, addresses all the issues and problems we faced during the May floods, and I believe that when we face some of the next natural challenges and disasters, we will be able to mitigate their consequences, because precisely the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Croatia is this law, mutually helping one country towards another. The agreement itself clearly regulates the conditions for co-operation through planning and implementing measures to protect against floods, earthquakes, fires, environmental pollution, radiological dangers, industrial and other disasters, mutual information on hazards, occurrences and consequences of disasters, mutual assistance in the protection and rescue of the consequences of disasters, professional training and training of professionals and services through courses, seminars, training and organisation of joint exercises, exchange of scientific and technical data, cooperation in the development and production of protection and rescue equipment. What I think is of paramount importance, as regards the prevention and obligation of notification of the dangers and potentials of disaster that could endanger the territory of another country, is just as crucial in the preventive and initial functioning of crisis situations. In addition to this, the agreement provides for all the experience that we face on the ground, which concerns crossing the borders of individual rescue teams, which allows for simplified procedures, the introduction of equipment necessary for carrying out the tasks in the rescue and rescue itself, the introduction of humanitarian aid, the regulation of the residence of rescue teams on the territory of another country, the regulation of material damage and others. In addition to the above, the agreement specifies both the conditions and the method of use of vessels and aircrafts, and we are witnessing that they were of particular importance during the May floods. What gives full meaning to this agreement and evidence that it will be implemented is a permanent mixed committee for the implementation of tasks set out in this Agreement. This commission will comprise representatives of the emergency sector by Serbia and the state administration for protection and rescue on the part of Croatia and will meet at least once a year. I would point out that, for us, an extremely important agreement has been reached between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Protection of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture of Croatia, that information is exchanged in the future operationally between the Public Water Management Company "Vode Vojvodina" and "Croatian Waters", in order to respond in due time to the high water stop of the Sava River and to enable them to avoid potentially dangerous critical situations. Finally, I would like to say that the SPS parliamentary group will support this agreement in the voting day, as well as the other agreements that are under this joint investigation.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10398	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10399	Dear Chairman, dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about four agreements and each of them is very important in strengthening bilateral relations with our neighbouring countries. I will start in the second order, first I will talk about an agreement with Macedonia that is very important, about mutual recognition of driving licences, which will ensure the easier transition and stay of our citizens and citizens of Macedonia to these two countries. This will particularly reflect in a positive way during the summer months when Serbian citizens cross massively across Macedonia towards Greece, then it will only reflect in the most positive way. Also, agreements with Romania, between the government of the Republic of Serbia and Romania, the opening of two border belts, namely Vračev Gaj - Sokol and Golubac - Nova Moldova, and this represents an extremely important agreement in terms of strengthening the co-operation of our two historic close countries. The new border crossings will allow easier flow of passengers and goods, then reduce communication and development in the border area thanks to better economic, cultural and social co-operation. Just before we heard it, really, I wish it wasn't personal anymore, that it wasn't heard in public that we had very bad border crossings. This will definitely be a good example because these agreements are a condition, applying to IPA funds, where they will be obtained for the construction of two infrastructure border crossings, "The border crossing of the Danube with a skeleton at Golubac and Novinhem" and "The bridge on Nera and in Vračev Gaja and Sokol". I want to look back at this moment on the most significant cooperation agreement to protect against natural and other disasters, signed between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. We are witnessing major climate change and, unfortunately, in our area is the most significant, because we have clearly expressed four seasons, today it is not so anymore, so at the same time we are fighting on one side with floods, on the other side with a fiery verse. In this regard, the primary and greatest responsibility is precisely in countries that need to establish a more efficient system to respond to such disasters and, more importantly, to implement risk mitigation measures and eliminate the consequences of such disasters. The aim of this agreement is to improve co-operation between our countries in terms of preserving human lives and preserving material goods when disasters, floods, fires, earthquakes, environmental pollution, industrial and radiological dangers, as well as inland navigational accidents. The fact is that during the May floods there was co-operation between neighbouring countries even though these agreements did not exist at the time, but it is definitely necessary to formalise this co-operation. Formalization is very important for a number of reasons. We just heard that not all parameters are highlighted until the end as to how they will cooperate. I believe it will come in time when joint committees and expert groups are formed to work on risk analyses and response plans. Early notification, exchange of information, knowledge and joint training and training will be provided, as well as exchange of scientific and technical data and, of course, direct provision of assistance in the course of disasters. The agreement clearly defined the procedures for crossing the border, retaining or transiting through the state, transporting weapons, rescue equipment and humanitarian aid, then the use of aircraft and vehicles, both for the transport of rescue teams and for the control of fires and the means of financing, which is very important. All the time the rescue activities are under the supervision of the permanent mixed commission. I personally hope that this kind of assistance will never be needed again, but such agreements will certainly strengthen bilateral relations and co-operation in those areas that are very important for our faster entry into the EU. Now I'd have to go back to a few criticisms that we could hear earlier, that no meter of water safety belts were made. The fact is that water safety belts are an extremely large investment for this government and the minister was just talking about it. People who understand each other know what money should be set aside for that. I am sure that before the May floods, if the government had invested in water safety belts, it would have been difficult to explain to the citizens of Serbia why money is being separated for these purposes, rather than for existential issues and Serbia's recovery. The citizens of Užica are witnesses that in 2012 large money was invested in the rehabilitation of the dam of the battery Vrtci and the cleaning of the accumulation of Vrtci. That was 65 million dinars. Two years later, the Uzicans ran out of drinking water. Catastrophes are something that's hard to predict. I'm talking about the prevention we've been hearing about all along. They're mostly unpredictable, and that's why it's hard to stop them. Today, Užicani, thanks to the Serbian government and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, have an alternative way of supplying water, and will also receive a water factory. What I still want to say is that these four agreements, which are before us today, I am sure that in the coming period there will be even more, especially because of the visits of officials to our state summit, show that the efforts of this government and prime minister definitely brought results, so that today all the doors of the countries in the region and in the world are wide open to Serbia and Serbia have found its significant place on the map of the world. I want to say that the SNS in a positive sense in the voting day will plead for these four laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10400	Thank you. The word has a national emissary of Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10401	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this bill on confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is a clear expression of commitment to intensifying and improving co-operation in the field of protecting and saving lives and material goods from natural and other disasters. This co-operation has become unsigned, but the formalisation of co-operation is welcome and desirable in any case. What I would like to point out as positive and what is seen from the text of these agreements is the wish of the countries signatories for joint co-operation, the desire for data exchange, the exchange of experiences and the use of common capacities. To this end, it also obliges them to use the text of this Agreement, where they are obliged to exchange information, to work together to perfect equipment, to train individuals, to work on deepening the co-operation of state authorities and humanitarian organisations. All of this is aimed at improving co-operation in the area of emergency situations, where, as a form of perfect organisation, it could respond effectively, with as little engagement as possible, with as little resources and time spent as possible. I'm saying all of this in terms of the accidents that have hit us in the past and whose consequences we're still feeling, where we could really see how important the timely reaction and the help that comes from all over the world is. When a country is affected by disasters, when its population is threatened, its material goods and when it is unable to cope independently with these difficulties, it is essential to have help that can be counted on, so that these dangers directly remind us of the importance of co-operation and understanding in the region. I would briefly refer to some of the positive things contained in this Agreement, such as the form of a request for assistance, sent by one of the parties contracted, where it contains a description of the accident, the consequences that have hit the country, the measures taken, and in response from the other party, the scope of the measures available and the assistance it can provide is obtained. Article 12 and Article 13 clearly specify priorities and provide one justifiable, simplified and accelerated procedure for the transition of individuals, rescue teams, and humanitarian and other assistance. Given all these significant items and conditions that disasters may have and their unpredictability, in the voting day I will support this proposal agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10402	Thank you, Mrs. Turk. The word has a minister in the government Mr Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10403	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to draw attention to one very important thing for the public. These days, the bids to repair the embankment are ending. It's a process that lasted a little longer, to make documentation, to prepare, to spread tenders, and then to get rid of dikes, and to reconstruct it and bring it into some proper state. The tender couldn't be called until the funds were secured. You know that's very expensive. Currently, the works in Luciani are starting. It's 32 million. It's 32 million. At Cemernica near Cačka 40 million, on the river Sec, on the Sava, on Kolubara, etc. So, all tenders are coming to an end. As for the young lady who spoke of Uzic, the projects end for the Užice. He'll get a modern water factory. The prime minister insisted and gave the funding order to find funds to make the construction part of the facility now during this year, while installing equipment and technology at the beginning of the next year, so that sometime by April, the month would be the finished water factory, as the Uzzicians do not have the funds in the budget. Complete construction of a factory, which is an extremely large investment, will be carried by the government of the Republic of Serbia and will permanently resolve the water supply of the town of Užica. Therefore, many projects are being done and are not being exposed to the public. We didn't go out to the media to talk about it, but we finished it, we did it, we audited it, and, look, now they're going into realisation. I repeat, these days, 20 cities are being rescheduled by misery, all of a sudden, and the total is program 36. I hope by the end of the year we finish them all and bring them to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10404	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10405	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens, today we have one positive task and one obligation to support and propose four agreements that simultaneously introduce order into one area that is very important to us, and that is, first and foremost, to help fight natural disasters, i.e. natural disasters and any other, with Croatia in this case, and in a very short time, we will probably do so with all the countries in the environment. Serbia as the centre of the region takes all possible steps to boost co-operation, primarily to the security of its citizens and its own country, and thus the security of citizens and countries in the environment. What's important is that in this case it's very important to prevent. This is one way to prevent the action. We have a very large one, at one point we can say both painful and difficult experience, which is the experience of the elementary disasters that hit us in May and at that moment, and despite the situation which was very difficult, the state reacted extremely quickly and in line with all its resources. Help has come from all sides. When there's a will, there's a way to help, and that just happened to us. The way to help us were also countries from environments and countries far beyond Serbia, but here I am using this opportunity as someone who directly participated in the defence of the city of Sapac from floods and in the recovery of floods itself, which were partly affected by certain settlements and places in the area of Šapca, to say that the greatest aid has indeed arrived primarily from Russia, Belarus and many other countries, even if the arrival of Cizikova, deputy minister of emergency Russia, who is personally with 76 special forces, with two helicopters, with lifeboats. Among these 76 specialists, there were 20 divers with the best equipment possible to find a way to come and take part in the defense of the town of Sapca. Cizik himself participated in and the work of the Emergency Staff itself. Major aid from Belarus, Austria, France, Germany, primarily teams of Belarus, Austria and France to pump water from the position of the Zorka chemical industry to prevent a major ecological disaster of regional proportions. What we must stress, and this is indeed accurate data, is that we have received great help as soon as possible from our neighbours, especially Croatia. Based on the government's decision, one unit was sent to Serbia already on 16 May, the State Intervention Unit of Civil Protection from the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, with five members, two vehicles, two boats and other additional equipment, as well as a state fire unit with 10 members and three vehicles and other equipment, which took part in the rescue of citizens from flooded areas, and all in the task of helping in the fastest and best possible way. The Macedonian government sent 30 rescue workers from the Department of Protection and Rescue and 15 rescue workers from the Ministry of Defence as soon as possible, including boats, aggregates, water pumps and all that was needed at that time. It may have been impossible to predict this disaster, or elemental disaster, and of course we can never predict it, but what we can do is to expect them and to prepare ourselves to act best. One of these ways is this agreement and all those who dispute this and these agreements are wrong. Why these agreements weren't signed five or ten years ago is really a question for everyone. I would refer to Minister Ilic. I come from areas that have had an emergency situation in all their districts. In Little Zvornik, Love and Krupanja, we still haven't been able to get out of these emergency situations. In Krupan, only 70 million dinars will be spent to restore telecommunications infrastructure. That's enough money for me not knowing how many houses. Those who do not realize the problem of these renovations, or what kind of problem the government is facing, must go out on the ground and see it on the spot. All the streets have been moved, the hills have been moved. The river changed its course. There's streets where there's no phone cable, there's no house to play that number. Why don't opposition MPs go to the field and see what the problems are? The simplest thing is to sit behind a congregation speaker and point a finger in the direction of the government not to do something, not to do something. On the contrary, everything is being taken. Of course this takes time. But what matters is that this government has one goal, and the goal is to help everyone in need. Accordingly, all these decisions have been made. Elemental accidents know neither the boundaries nor the differences in which individuals point. These basic disasters are a problem for everyone in the region and beyond. Accordingly, all preventive measures are being taken, and simply, that there is a way, that there are solutions and that something has already been done, we have an example of Capca, where while the emergency situation has taken place, a decision is made to make 2.7 kilometers in the defence of the town of Šapca, at the position of Kočino channel. I can let the public know that it's exactly that rash and it's over two and a half miles long, and the Sabbath is secure. What's left and what's a very big task, that's 5.2 kilometers in the length of the rash at the position of Cevrentija and Drenovec. What I know and what is reliable, is that the Ministry of Agriculture, the Water and Government has already found sources of funding and in the process is the creation of projects and final documents to access the construction of this dikes in the length of 5.2 kilometers, where the biggest problem was, where days and nights were spent on the defence of the town of Sapca, of course, successful. Once again, I am taking the opportunity from this assembly speaker to thank everyone who has helped, above all our citizens, the citizens of Sapac, the citizens of Serbia and everyone in the area who are their own participation, as much as anyone could and could, he helped. But what is the message of this crisis situation and the situation that happened not only in Šapec, not only in Serbia and not only in our country, but also in BiH and Croatia, since we are about in a stream of rivers where all rivers from these areas end in Serbia. The message is that we come out of this crisis situation more unique, better and more solid. I think that as a consequence of all the difficult obstacles that have been set before us, we will come out much more ready and much better for the next elemental and any other disasters that are likely to occur, despite our desire not to, appear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10406	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10407	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the esteemed citizens of Serbia who are monitoring this direct transfer of the National Assembly session, we are recalling today the agreements signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the first one I will talk about, about mutual recognition of the driver's license. Absolutely we from our parliamentary group support this law and we will vote for it. We are aware that during the past, I do not know how to count them, Yugoslavia has been a major fluctuation of the population, both Macedonia and other parts of Yugoslavia and Serbia and other republics towards Macedonia. With Macedonia, we are bound by many friendships, related ties, and this agreement allows residents, i.e. those who have a stay in the territory of the Republic of Macedonia, and are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can use their driving documents as we have in the Republic of Serbia, and the same applies to those people who go to work or who are transiting through Macedonia, so that I would not owe it, I absolutely support this kind of co-operation of bilateral relations, because they make life easier, both for the citizens of Serbia and for the citizens of Macedonia. The other two agreements concern the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of the international Golubac border crossing on the Serbian side and New Orleans in Romania and the second crossing between Vratje Gaja, that is the Republic of Serbia, and Sokol in Romania with the construction of a bridge on the Nera River, thus establishing better communication between citizens of the Republic of Serbia and those living in Romania. I'm very sorry there's no one from the Foreign Ministry, but I hope that you, Mr. Minister, what I have, as a suggestion, will question Mr. Secretary and give us back the information that the Foreign Ministry has said. What's this about? It is natural that parts of the land located in border areas, i.e. close to the borders with neighbouring countries, especially when this applies, as with us, to the EU, should be more developed than those parts that are inside, which have weak infrastructure, which have a weak travel economy and where the natural population goes where there is a greater fluctuation of brains, goods and money, it is also natural to be in our border areas, both south of Sava and Danube, and north of Sava and Danube. What is reality, those who have what they say, from God that they have a greater possibility and a faster development than other parts of the country, because there is no possibility of communication, there are no border crossings, a weak road economy, which is a weak road infrastructure, they are in a seal, they are like some appendix of the Republic of Serbia and the opening of these border crossings we give the possibility of accelerated economic development of these parts of the Republic. It is good that the Foreign Ministry and the Republic of Serbia are working to open border crossings. In my view, it was needed everywhere where neighboring places on one side of the border and the possibility of road infrastructure being done, because the more the crossing, the greater the possibility will be the fluctuations and traffic of goods, intelligence, investment and all that the Republic of Serbia needs. What I wanted to ask – when will the other border crossings be solved? I would ask you to pass on this question, Mr. Minister. I understand by circumstances that between the Nakovs located near the Kikind, on the Romanian border itself, and the village of Lung, which has been on the Romanian side for years, if not decades, there is an initiative to open the border crossing. All governments have promised, including this present, all governments since 1945, no doubt, absolutely all governments since 1945 have promised a transition. This government has promised, i.e. Someone at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so I would ask, because this life means to these people, to allow them, to have a chance to develop their place, from that transition will benefit and the residents of Banatski Veliki Sel and Russian Selo and Nakov and Kickinda and all those who are gravitating that industrial center that is being built in Kikinda, to make an effort and lobby in the name of those fellow citizens who remain forgotten, because it is illogical that one village, which is given to God, where they say - when you plant a button, a coat pops up, is empty, because there is nothing. There is a border crossing that opens on some national holidays and all those who are young, and once a village was full of youth, they move to Kikinda, from Kikinda to Zrenjanin, from Zrenjanin to Novi Sad, from Novi Sad, Belgrade. If we keep this up, we'll all go to Belgrade. We from southern Serbia are already looking at locations where we can find our prey here. I sincerely hope that you can help our citizens from Nakov to experience their unfulfilled dream and to open that crossing. What I left behind was a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Our fellow citizens have heard a lot of stories about this agreement. We listened more, which should be heard, what was done after the May floods. That's what the people need to know. That should always be said regardless of the political option. What is done well must be known, but it must be known what is not done well. I think that's where both the position and the opposition agree. The subject of the agreement is, as my predecessors have said, planning and implementing measures to protect against floods, earthquakes, fires, environmental pollution, inland water accidents, radiological dangers, as well as industrial and other disasters. It foresees mutual notification of the dangers, occurrences and consequences of disasters, predicts mutual assistance in the protection, rescue and elimination of the consequences of disasters, the exchange of knowledge, that I am not reading to the end of this article, and the objective of the agreement is that, in accordance with the options available, mutually help each other in the event of disasters when a party seeking assistance is unable to counter the consequences of disasters with its resources. It's all right and it should be supported. This continues with what was once called civil protection in the territory of the former Republic of Yugoslavia. It's something that all countries have been doing since the ages, defend themselves against the elemental disasters of mind, technological equipment and the centuries in which it happens. What is interesting is that the agreement was signed on July 15th, following the May floods and that it came to the Assembly today on October 14th. I would ask you, Mr. Minister, you are the government minister who has been leading the Republic of Serbia for the third year in various relationships, but that is, that is, that policy and that is the congregation majority, now higher after the last elections, why what happened was not pre-warned from 2012 to 2014, i.e. until May of the month? I've heard a lot of colleagues from those parts, who were the most threatened by these floods, specifically I'm talking about the Whisper. So in 2012, when this government, i.e. The assembly's majority took over the leadership of the Republic of Serbia and formed its government, she found a final tender for these famous fivekm of dikes left to be done and not yet completed. I'm talking about 2012. The tender is over and the bidder has been selected in a public tender. The money was split at 250 million dinars, and that is what it cares about after the government took over, no contract has been signed, and that rash has not been made. In May of the month we had a defense of the Whisper on the Nap, which is normal and it should be done by every state, but I ask – why is this rash not over when it was time, in 2012 until 2014? That's a minimum of a year and a half. Now I hear from my colleagues that again in the process of finding budget money, which is normal, because the money is used during the financial year, is difficult to carry from one budget to another, unless the appraisal defines it. Why did we have a problem defending the Whispers? What makes it someone's, you'll agree with me, a failure done to damage a billion dinars in the area of Capca? So I absolutely agree that we all need to make every effort and that we need to try to do our job safely and responsibly. What I see as a basic problem is that how to come which set thinks she's the only smart one, only God knows everything universally. The worst is, Mr. Minister, when day-to-day politics tries to be stronger than the profession and when ministers by their authority and position order what needs to be done. In principle, all you have to do is ask the profession and you've asked one question and ask the Members of the People to report to us all the crisis scenes, as well as slides, such potential places where there can be river spills, possibly the following many rainfalls. I say, Mr. Minister, every planning and construction administration in each municipality has recorded absolutely all the slides, has recorded all possible water breakthrough sites, has plans in "Serbian" where experts work, to defend all rivers, and all fields in the Republic of Serbia. All it takes is a good political will to set priorities and slowly start from those dangerous waters, as you say, five-year, ten-year, 50-year-olds, and one hundred-year-olds, so when we do 100-year-old waters, those levels of possible rivers, we go after thousands of years of water, and then we protect Serbia. That's my suggestion, and I hope you'll answer these questions for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10408	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10409	Mr. Ambassador, I want to answer your question. It is true that the law was passed in 2011, where all public enterprises and all local administrations had to bring a strategy of defence against elementary disasters and to present the number of figures. To fully protect and defend Serbia, 11 billion euros are needed when it is seen. However, you know that in 2007 the first phase of protection for the removal of the Colubara and the protection of the spears began. The second phase projected in 2008 was to be done. It's not over. That's why there's been some major carnage than it would have been if it had been done. I don't want to list all your projects now. For example, Grabovica was done 25 years ago and stood with complete documentation. It's not done. Tekija was done 22 years ago with project documentation and was not done when Gerdap was supposed to protect surrounding settlements from lush waters. But then, in that period, which you mention in 2012, the finance minister made a decision to "Serbia", and all those companies that have their own revenue from the collection of various, which go directly to protection, repair of misery, protection from the lush here, etc., go to the budget for salaries and pensions, and water companies have been denied until today. Of their own incomes they are entitled to and where they are harvesting, they were unable to place where that money was intended, and therefore there were great delays and failures. It means that it has been neglected for almost 20 years, and has been particularly intensified in recent years, 2011, 2012, when a fully halted inflow went to water companies and was transferred directly to the budget. Then the budget went back to the spoon, if you need dedicated money to protect and maintain the embankment. That's what caused the big problem. That's why there's been a lot more of trouble than it would've been more normal if all of this had been maintained. You can't explain that one Selova dam, which is working, is finished 96%, doesn't end 4%, and to stop the lush water on half, or on the Kolubara River tributary and put it completely under control. But then the financials wouldn't allow it. You understand, there's no money. It needs other things, wages, pensions, and other things, and of course it didn't go where it was supposed to go. Now this government paid for it in May, paid for it later. You know how, you keep praying to God – he's not going to, he's not going to hit you once. We have to invest in funds. We can't invest that 11 billion euros in the protection of the Danube, the protection of Morava, all these lush waters at once. It's a process to work maybe 10, 15 years. What you said rightly, locate those most critical points and slowly move, so less critical, so, so, it might take 10, 15 years to get all of this in order, just right, maybe 20 years, as far as we haven't invested in the last 20 years. Once the devil has to come for himself, if you don't do what you have to do and it has now caught up with this government and no government will stand up to this blow that this government has endured. Nine months to damage a billion and 700 million. People, it's just impossible, such a blow to endure in one government. This government instead of going into employment, development, it has to take care of it. He can't do it all at once, but he's going and there's a huge amount of damage, a billion and 700 million to hit the budget in nine months of a government is terrible. I got a solution for the Minister of Emergency the second day after the big flood. So, I haven't even been on duty yet, and it's already been flooded. Many ministries have failed to form cabinets, and the flood has already been. In the process, it happened. The government has been able to stabilize, consolidate and somehow do it. This was a major role for both the military and the police and certain humanitarian organisations, all citizens. You've all seen what's happened and how it all happened that every man in Serbia was a hero of something that happened to this country. Unremembered, in certain areas, the waters were thousands of years old. For example, on the Tekias, the soils in the buildings were up to the first floor. You had a completely buried house up to the first floor, and somewhere on the floor of the mud, mud, trees, hives and everything else. The stream carried walls, carried houses. She wiped out a few houses. There's no sign there was a house. Imagine, the other day, army members found the body of a man who tried to get out, and he just broke through the glass and the mud completely buried it, and only when the mud was pulled out was found in the facility. No one had guessed... He couldn't open the door. It was all a lot of mud. All he could do was put his fist through the glass, and that's how he stayed, and that's how he was found. It's unremembered. We need to get ready for that and remove those weak spots. I agree with you, but we're working on it. We are preparing these projects and, I repeat, in order to protect everything in Serbia, it takes 11 billion euros. Of course, he can't do it all at once. It's got to be slow.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10410	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic, and let Ljiljana Malusic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic. Excuse me, the word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10411	I'm not running away from the answer. I was a minister at the time. I ran a lot of projects that were important. I'm very sorry that the town of Sabac during my three mandates in infrastructure and capital investment, where an extremely large amount of money is invested in it, has never applied for one dinar of funds, believe me. You've never asked for anything in three governments, here, I'm telling you responsibly, you can check in the papers. I used to come to Shabbatz and ask people if they needed anything. Well, why, there was some government who simply didn't want to communicate with the government and never asked for it, I felt a little uncomfortable, there were cities that didn't ask for anything, and there were cities that regularly sought and received little, little and solved problems. It was very strange to me, but some cities never asked for a single dollar. So, we had, when there was that two-state in Belgrade, you remember maybe, the city of Belgrade never competed for a single project through the government. That was Belgrade's policy. I can't make them now, they haven't been looking for anything for 15 years. No projects, and there were lots of projects, lots of money coming in, but nobody ever wrote a request to ask for anything. We have solved the sewerage of half of Serbia, and for example, Umka, Dedinje has no sewers, Kaludjerica, and no one has ever asked for sewers, and you know that they had a utility fund for all the cities of Serbia and municipalities, etc., but no one has ever submitted an official request to seek funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10412	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP Dragan Nikolic, and let the MP Ljiljana Malusic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10413	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honourable Minister Ilic, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am very pleased with the agreement of all parliamentary groups when it comes to agreements signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the governments of the Republic of Croatia, Romania and Macedonia. I look forward to consent because the opposition recognizes that the government of the Republic of Serbia, or so on. The Vucic government has heard and respected everything in the exposé, when Mr Vukic was in this House, and with 208 MPs elected by the Government in this composition, he meets what he has promised. We said we would lead an foreign policy that is peaceful, which respects neighbours, we will lead a policy that Serbia has no claim against other internationally recognised states that are also members of the UN. We recognize the sovereignty and integrity of each of these countries. We have four agreements, they're all very important in their own way. I would like to mention the first agreement we signed with Macedonia, which I hope tomorrow, we will ratify in this House with our votes. It is that we and Macedonia have signed an agreement that our driving licenses, i.e. the driver's licenses of citizens of Serbia, who have a stay or a longer stay in Macedonia, will not be closed with too much administration, making large costs, and also, given that Macedonia is a country through which a large number of citizens pass transit during summer vacations, as well as in winter, that the driving licences valid in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, issued by the internal authorities of the Republic of Serbia, are also valid in the territory of Macedonia, and that Macedonian driving licences, i.e. Macedonian citizens' licences, are also valid in Serbia. This reciprocity shows mutual respect between our two countries and shows respect that we have with the Republic of Macedonia, given that the Republic of Serbia and Macedonia also had a joint session and this warming of relations between the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia starts somewhere in 2012. We know that we have had major problems before, we know that there has been a huge misunderstanding between our two countries on many issues, but I think that this republican government, and also the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, on his part, does much to melt the relationship between our two countries, which, of course, is for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. That's why the opposition, recognising that policy, wants to vote for such agreements, wants to vote for these laws, because by supporting this government, it's possible that in the next elections they will cross the censorship, they won't be in the same problem as they were and there are little statements we've heard during the day, where your ministers were trying to impute that you in this government don't ask yourself anything, that you're just signing and that you're formally sitting here today, and that you're essentially not deciding anything at all. Knowing you personally and knowing you as a longtime politician, I am aware that you have one gauge of a serious politician who has his place in the government, who is respected in the government and who, hopefully, will be doing responsible jobs for the well-being of this government for a very long time, and of course for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. It's not appropriate to try to reduce your role and talk about something here today that's absolutely not a subject. Nor were these agreements related to the floods that, unfortunately, hit us in the spring, nor could we prevent it, and even less could we predict that something like this would happen. There is this agreement with Croatia that I will discuss later. What I wanted to point out, with the Republic of Romania, that is, with their government, was signed this agreement to open two border crossings, these are border crossings. I have one request, since you are here today as a representative of the government, and as far as one municipality is concerned, it is a trade square located in the far south of Serbia, which is extremely poor, devastated, a huge number of people go after bread, mostly one poverty and something called Serbia's appendix. They applied, they sent applications to many addresses, so here I am as a folk MP from the Pcin County asking you to sign this up, try to try the Government or the RES, where it is already decided, allowing a small border crossing between the municipality of Trade and the municipality of Krist Palanka in Macedonia, because in this way the flow of goods, services, capital would have been done a lot for this municipality. It would thus be able to develop economically, to develop road infrastructure in this regard. They are willing on their part to invest a lot of money and a lot of their voluntary work to make the transition towards Macedonia. It means a lot to them and I just want you to remember this and try to do it on your own, you don't have to answer me today, you don't have to promise me today. If you want, a team before and a team better for me and also for the citizens of Commerce. There is a fourth agreement that is with Croatia and I want to say a few words about it. We have long had a painful and bloody history with the Republic of Croatia, with our citizens who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, with columns of refugees, with war, with the "Storm", with the Second World War, but all this is behind us, all this is for history. We must look forward and therefore, as a People's MP, I really look forward to this first agreement of the Republic of Croatia with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where we will once synergy try to fight natural disasters, against disasters, against floods, fires and all that is stated in the agreement, which is predictable. I just want to remind you that every agreement takes two or two. In this case, conditions were matured in July this year to make the agreement between Croatia and Serbia. It could not be done last year, could not be done in 2010, because there was no political will, because there was no capacity and desire to make mutual satisfaction something to prevent, to warn any disaster. We hope that this is one of the first steps that we will have in normalising relations with Croatia. In that sense, of course, the MP group and myself, like all MPs in this room, and those who aren't there, and today they criticized everything you've been saying, what you've been saying, today they don't have time for such a thing, they're probably in some bar, there's probably lunchtime, so watch out for the line or stick to the press conference, where the minister is attacked, where the SNS MP's group is being attacked, or all the worst stories about Alexander Vukic are being told about these flying planes and they're one preparation for a great "Praise Parade", which we're all proud of. Here, I urge all citizens of Serbia to come to that parade, they will be safe and happy and satisfied and full of themselves and proud of their country. They'll see that we have one power that can distract any enemy of ours from any crazy idea that anything on our territory will try. In that sense, the SNS will, of course, vote in favour of all these agreements, ratifying them and giving them power in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10414	The People's Messenger Ljiljana Malusic has the word, then Svetislav Vukmirica. Here you go, Mrs. Ljiljana.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10415	Dear President, Mr. Minister, respected guests from the ministry, honourable Members of Parliament, today we will talk about a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of the international border crossing of Vracec, a settlement located on the Serbian side and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the part of Romania, the Sokol crossing. This Agreement was concluded on 11 December 2013 by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Romania. Unless one of these two parties is satisfied with this agreement, the problem can always be solved by notifying. However, the effects of the notification last about 30 days. Why does it matter that we have these two crossings? First of all, it should be said that thanks to the IPA Fund and the figures which are 2,354,000 euros, and thanks to the projects made on both sides, we can quickly, if we provide the infrastructure, which would mean by international standards and rules, get to this road crossing, specifically the bridge on the river Neda. What does that mean? This means primarily good co-operation between the two friendly countries, otherwise, we have exceptional co-operation with the Republic of Romania, then strengthening bilateral relations, as well as much faster traffic both passengers and goods, transit. So, strengthening the economy in both directions. The second project for which we receive money from the IPA Fund is a river crossing with a skeleton, in this case it will be a ferry, on the Romanian side the settlement Nova Moldova, and on our side the Golubac. What's that gonna mean? First of all, road cuts, speed, efficiency, human connection. Personally, I believe this project will be implemented very quickly and it is predicted that the time to work this transition will be from 6:00 a.m. to 20.00 p.m. every day, which is fantastic. We know there are crossings, reptiles of the past, who only worked for the weekend. Unfortunately, this government has made an effort to work every day, and it will be better for this country. Number one. Two, people living on both sides of the coast will have fantastic interactions. You know that this is where the mixed population lives, meaning in Romania Serbs, in Serbia Romanians, better fluctuations, better integration of everything. It is even believed that the local communities will have a much greater function than they do today. As for the second agreement between Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, it is primarily about co-operation and protection against natural and other disasters. This agreement was signed on 15 July 2014 and it is very important that flexibility exists on both sides. First of all, our bilateral relations go one line that's much better than it was, one. Two, this is necessary because of the catastrophes we had, monsters, so to speak, in May of the month, when the Republic of Serbia went disastrously through these floods. The same thing happened to the Republic of Croatia, so in order for this not to happen, it is necessary to make teams and sign this agreement urgently. As for teams, when teams are being made on both sides, it's always the same number of international teams. So the smallest number is three or three, and the largest number depends on the situation, or the elemental accident. What's the point of this? The goal is to save, above all, protect against natural disasters and disasters. What happens if it is necessary to use vessels, or aircraft? It is necessary to report the number of aircraft and vessels, complete crew and complete marking. Every time there's any kind of disaster, there's a team leader, and that team leader is in charge of his own people. They need to be ready, it's a minimum of days, four days, which means they're on their own, they have food and, except they're saving people, they have to be ready for other emergency situations. The agreements are also very important because there is education on both sides, seminars are being held, brochures are changing, training is being done on both sides. In any case, it is necessary to sign this agreement because it brings only improvement and strengthening bilateral relations. As for the Agreement with Macedonia on driving licences, it is a very easy agreement and very necessary, because the Republic of Macedonia, with which we have extraordinary friendly relations, will also be able to recognise our traffic permits, Serbian and theirs. First of all, it achieves speed in transit traffic, as well as much better economic co-operation. If a valid permit expires and a citizen of the Republic of Serbia is in Macedonia, the permit will not be valid, but will be resolved in an effective manner very soon through the authorities that solve the problem. I would stress that all four and in our environment we have exceptional bilateral relations with Romania, now it will be even better, we have excellent relations with Macedonia, and it is going to be done with the Republic of Croatia, and should urgently adopt these draft agreements laws, so that the Serbian Progressive Party in Dan will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10416	The People's Messenger, Svetislav Vukmirica, has the word, and then Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10417	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like first of all to express my great satisfaction that in the voting day I hope to unanimously confirm the agreements, and in particular the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Romania on the opening of the international crossings of Golubuc - Nova Moldova and Vračev Gaj - the Falcon at the Serbian-Romanian state border. Today, in my presentation, I will look precisely at these two agreements, which have been concluded because there was a mutual will of the two countries to facilitate the opening of new border crossings for citizens of both the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Romania. The very fact that in the Republic of Serbia there is a significant percentage of Romania's population living in the border zone, while on the other hand there is one third of the Serbs living in Romania, enough reason for both peoples to finally connect directly with their queens. Also, the historical connection between the two neighbouring countries and the inexplicable fact of the majority friendship of the Serbian and Romanian people gives a special tone of confirmation of these agreements. Confirming these agreements will enable them to enter into force and allow for the implementation of a ferry transport project between Nova Moldava and Golubac in Danube, which takes place under the IPA through the Romanian-Serbia border programme, worth 2,352,674 euros, as well as a project to build a bridge on the Nera River, which is also taking place under the IPA project and worth 1,633.277 euros. Subject projects are very important for the Republic of Serbia and Romania, as opening border crossings would contribute to the economic development of the region, i.e. allow for better flow of passengers and goods. I would take this opportunity to point out the fact that the municipality of Kikind, from which I come, is committed to working on the permanent opening of the Nakovo-Lung road crossing, which is only 10 kilometers away from Kikinda itself. Kikinda is also the largest Serb municipality along the border with Romania, nearly 548km long. You are the leader of a joint initiative of Serbian and Romanian border municipalities, i.e. Kickinda, Choke and Cresnje on the Serbian side and Komlusmara, Valka and Foeni on the Romanian side. I would like to highlight the leadership position of Kikinda in a borderline connection with Romania both in the business and in the cultural interest of our environment and therefore the interest of the Nakovo-Lunga border crossing is to be opened as soon as possible. With Romanian partners, we have reached an agreement that we are jointly asking that this border crossing be redeployed into an international, for the start of a third category and to be included as a priority project within the IPA two cycles of cross-border co-operation, because there are multiple objective reasons for this. After nine years of closing the small-scale crossing, i.e. on July 1st 2004, due to the introduction of visas to citizens of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and during 11 temporary openings in the period from June 2013 to September 2014, at three days each opening, the state border has crossed more than 15,000 passengers, most of whom are Romanian citizens and 60%, respectively. If I add to this the fact that "The Days of Water in Kikinda" has been visited by 4,000 citizens of neighbouring Romania last weekend, that fact speaks enough about the importance of opening this crossing. Then, during each temporary opening of the border crossing in the Kickindian supermarkets and shops, more traffic was recorded from 40% to 100% compared to weekends when the border crossing was not working. Apart from micro-economic benefits, several potential foreign investors operating in the western Romanian counties of Timis and Arad stress the importance of the permanent opening of the Nakovo-Lunga border crossing, which will make their production transfer to Kikinda even more certain and more profitable, and then Kikinda will certainly start to emerge from the deep economic crisis in which it is currently located. Also, the fact that Romanians are proud to point out that the unemployment in Timisvar is at 1% level speaks sufficiently of the need for the economic integration of the Serbian and Romanian parts of Banat. Also, the Kikinda municipality cultivates close ties with the Serb minority in Romania, supporting the preservation of cultural and national identity through various programmes that we implement throughout the year in co-operation with the Alliance of Serbs in Romania. In the end, the Nakovo-Lunga border crossing requires small investments, because it is located in the urban environment and could indeed, within the shortest possible time limit, start to work permanently. This concludes my address today, in the hope that indeed all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in voting day will honestly and without reservation support the agreements in question, as well as that the municipality of Kikind will receive the waiting international border crossing for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10418	The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic has the word, and then Marijan Risticevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman of General Arsenovic, the Honorable Minister Ilic, the honourable guests of the ministry, the MPs of the New Party, Mr Ilic, will vote in favour of the proposals, or four proposals of the agreement we are discussing today, which we are signing, or verifying here with three neighbouring states. So we're voting for these agreements, but in relation to the content of these agreements and the debate that we've had here today, I have several observations regarding which, Mr. Ilic, I expect your intervention, further clarifications and answers to some questions, if possible. And I suggest we take it in a row. First, we have an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on mutual recognition of driving licences. In Article 1(2), for example, it writes very nicely what this is about, says – in order to carry out traffic on their national territory, the contracting party will recognise as valid and national driving licences issued by the other Contracting Party for a period of their importance. I think that's very good, but I have an addition. And so far, I've often traveled to Macedonia or traveled through Macedonia, I've never had any kind of problem with recognising a driver's license, but I agree that the agreement should further resolve the issue and that's fine. In particular, I think it is important, on this agreement, that what you have stated in the reasons for the adoption of the law – confirming this law will allow citizens of the Republic of Serbia with a regulated stay in the state territory of Macedonia to replace national driving licences for valid Macedonian driving licences of the appropriate category. I think it's very good that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can hear it. In that sense, we have no dilemma about this agreement, we support it. The second agreement and the third concern the relations between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Romania on the opening of international border crossings, two, one Golubac and another, Vračev Gaj. Agreeing with all the MPs who discussed here today and said that the issue of opening border crossings primarily with neighbouring countries is a very important matter. Between our and neighbouring countries in this case, Romania needs, I think, that there is one dialogue, one movement of people, goods, capital and services, and in that sense the opening of border crossings is a good thing. But here I have a first dilemma, or one question, Mr. Ilic, that I believe that the issue of good neighbourly relations should not come down to our debate on opening border crossings, but it is necessary by my court that the issue of good neighbourly relations be part of our debate here in the Assembly on what the foreign policy strategy of Serbia should look like. In that sense, the argument of good neighbourly relations leads me to ask you a question – and why would you defend these bill proposals, and not, for example, Minister Dacic, whose portfolio, whose responsibility is to lead foreign policy? I believe that this is his responsibility and that as a minister, he comes to this Assembly with a proposal for a Serbian foreign policy strategy within which one priority, I think, should also be to develop good neighbourly relations. The third agreement concerns relations between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on co-operation in the protection of natural and other disasters. I agree that this is an important agreement. The content of this agreement, Mr. Ilic, concerns your jurisdiction. This is the area you're directly in charge of, and I think that's okay. You here said in the introduction that there must be mutual co-operation to prevent the consequences of natural and other disasters. But, dear Mr. Ilic, before we begin to discuss these agreements here, I really think it is very important that in the Serbian Parliament, in relation to this issue, the big problem that we had recently raised is the question of the responsibility of the government, or not to act to prevent such serious consequences, for example, the floods we had. Mr. Ilic, for example, you announced today that the damage we are suffering from this natural disaster that has struck us, a billion and 700 million. Mr. Ilic, it is necessary to say could it have been prevented? Why isn't it stopped? Could the Serbian government have done much more to prevent human casualties, and that what you're talking about here is less? It's not God's will, Mr. Ilic, it's a human factor. I ask you, what does Marko Blagojevic do, and what do you do in the Serbian Government, Mr Ilic? Who's replacing who here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10420	The word is made by the MP Marijan Rističević, and then by Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10421	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, immediately at the introduction to say that I do not agree with my previous colleague, is not the government's wish to meet the wishes of the MP that the minister should come to, for what law. This time, the government has authorized Mr. Ilic to represent these laws. Therefore, we MPs, some individual desire cannot concern the government. If that were the case, 250 of us would have 250 wishes and each of us would choose a minister by his own desire, by his own impression, and while we're at the impression, I don't think some of us should be impressed, but a print. So if you want to see the real disaster then you should have the president of the party who was prime minister and who participated in the fundamental destruction of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10422	Mr. Risticevic, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10423	I'm talking about natural disasters, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10424	I understand the need for you to say it, but still get back on the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10425	Mr. Chairman, there was no major elemental accident, if you believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10426	And I could comment, I kept my mouth shut, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10427	Can you warn a colleague, he's distracting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10428	I could've reacted, too. You're absolutely right, but let's not waste our time right now, I know it's their chance to provoke, but well, don't provoke now. Here's to the agenda. The agreements are so clear, there's no need to compromise anything. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10429	Okay, I believe that, you believe me, it was a disaster. So, thanks for the warning, however, my colleague is distracting me all the time, he's standing there, holding that raised hand, stopping his blood, I'm worried about his health. Warn him a little, not just me. As far as the law is concerned, I particularly support the opening of border crossings with Romania. So Romania is one country with which we have exceptional historical relations so peaceful. I think it's a country worth working with. I think it's the state with which to open not the border crossings, but the entire border. It's a country that's never fought a war with us. A state that can cooperate with us economically. A country that can complement certain economic activities with us, and I was one of those who supported the idea of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic to be made between 2000 and 2003 until his death to make an alliance with Romania, and I think it was useful for both countries, especially when we have a view of agriculture, the processing industry, and I think that we missed a certain opportunity at the time. Thanks to those who today's heritage allegedly Djindjic's policy that absolutely has nothing to do with what he wanted. Evidence of this is the co-operation with Romania that was not continued after his death. I support the new government opening border crossings. The time will come to open up the entire border and that thanks to Romania as the country we can handle in economic terms, a country that has far more consumers than we do, a country that we economically if we perform can develop our own economy that needs to be the engine of this country's development. We the economy we found was in such a state that no co-operation economically could bring results and simply our economy was broken down and killed by the disaster that hit us between 2000 and 2014. In 2012, when we were taking over the government, we saw that we were unable to work economically with these countries, we passed over and passed when the state of the economy was such that you had nothing to export and what to cooperate with in cross-border traffic with any country, including Ramunia. As regards the agreement with Macedonia, I welcome this agreement, particularly with regard to what it has predicted and possible abuses that may arise from one part of Macedonia, which is known for its activities in Kosovo and Metohija and southern Serbia and in Macedonia, so that these driving licences are not misused, and I welcome the fact that the law provides for an extremely precise verification of the personalities and documents that are attached in the Member States, both in Macedonia and in our country. If there is an attempt at a certain abuse, then the verification prescribed by this law can be very easy to verify, i.e. to establish the validity of certain driving licences, and in this respect, it has detailed the way in which these abuses can be prevented. As for these elemental disasters and disasters, regarding the Agreement with Croatia, I don't think anything is as joyous as it can bring about other people's misfortunes, and I don't think that this time the Croats were looking forward to just our accident, because the accident hit them, too, so they agreed with this agreement that guarantees co-operation in the future, which wasn't legally precise about the floods that hit us. As an individual, we have exceptional damage from a river that flows through both Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, someone who has had exceptional damage, and I want to say that the condition that we have encountered in connection with our canal network, with our river streams, in connection with our possible water-acceptable accumulations was amazing. So someone who was supposed to take care of the water streams, he went through flooded areas and offered sedatives to chickens. So I saw among the first of the former regimes, that he went there somewhere in the Shop and was not so concerned about the health of citizens, about the safety of citizens, about the security of property, and in the midst of those difficulties, which happened to Serbia at the time, he was worried about the health of chickens and I greatly appreciate it because he offered as a psychologist exceptional therapy, and he quickly came up with a chicken sedative and offered it. I don't know what's funny to you, that's what the first man of this country did in his term until 2012, the leader of a political party, which is far less than it was now, but they have been solving disasters in this way, and the disaster that has hit us since 2000, says that more than 50m euros have been brought out of this country. It didn't cost us as much as the sanctions, the bombings, the poored uranium, nothing cost us as much as it cost us the elemental disaster and the disaster that hit us from 2000 to 2012. With that in mind, I don't think it's right that someone who's the heritage of that old value, who wants to choose a minister here, I don't think it's right to choose a minister, when they've had such an expert, I think they should want us to bring him here, listen to him, and ask him in cooperation about elemental disasters, how a man imagined that disaster should be taken care of in a way, go and go around the flooded areas, go into a henhouse and say, "The hens are living beings," I think here is a solution to a small chicken sedative. So, someone who has taken such care in such a way about flooded areas, I do not think it is appropriate today to resent a very good law in co-operation with Croatia about the elementary disasters and disasters that have hit us and that I fear can happen to us. With this in mind, I, as chairman of the Committee, must say that we as a Committee will soon launch a agenda point, which will refer to the restoration of our channel network, to the cleaning of our channel network, to one large project and to the disposal of our plums and waterways for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. With this in mind, the state should determine certain means, because water can be of great benefit, but it can also be damage. The big water can be a big problem, but if the big water is used in the right way, if we don't act wisely, if we don't do some chicken sedatives, in any case, if we're dealing with real business, if we don't spend 50 billion on some threes and dogs, if we spend it in our water streams, in the streams of rivers, if we find room for emergency accumulation, when big water comes to have that where to drop it, and if we have clear plans, if we renovate and clean up the canal net on the Vojvodina territory, in which case water doesn't have to be trouble, there's water and we inherited those water streams in 2012. Everything was abandoned, the state was brutally ripped out of the hands of poor citizens, the money that was taken from citizens and the money in charge of a future generation of citizens, nothing was built, no plan existed in defense of disaster, we were mostly dealing with secondary matters, the protection of chickens, the protection of the shell oaks in the dam, and, behold, the miracles did not restore the embankment, but they spent, next to the embankment...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10430	I have to intervene again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10431	It is the Sava River that flows from Croatia and passes through Obrenovac. Sir, this is where they talked about everything and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10432	You'll have to listen to me. Did you have the opportunity to discuss all that you wanted, and some who had previously spoken and you now about the problems that we had about the flood, in this assembly you could constructively discuss? I ask you to stick to the agenda in that sense, now is the Agreement, not the consequences and who is responsible for the floods that have occurred. Please finish your discussion in that sense, which was constructive, concerning the Agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10433	I understand you, and I certainly respect that position of yours, that the criticisms are mostly directed to the ruling majority. With this in mind, I would like to remind you that the Sava River flows through Croatia and Serbia and that certain rivers that pour into the Sava have a major impact on the disasters that occur in both Serbia and Croatia. I'm talking about that in the future we don't have to work, learn from other people's mistakes, because it's best to learn from other people's mistakes, and not repeat mistakes by investing money in the care of shell oaks to spend millions, and by doing so, we don't spend a single white dinar next to the Sava that needs to protect the citizens of Obrenovac. That's all I wanted to say, and respecting you very much as chairman, respecting your intensities so that you don't in any way deny the right of the opposition so that we don't enter a dispute wanting to save time for this assembly. I respect your position, and therefore I will not object to your position, I will support all these laws as president of the People's Peasants' Party, given that my party and members of my party, however few of them, have been in these fundamental disasters the worst. With this in mind, I am obliged to support especially this law on the prevention of disasters that could hit Serbia in the future, regardless of what the agreement is signed with Croatia. The agreement speaks about the forced evacuation of citizens from one territory to another. I don't completely ignore that evacuation that was carried out by Storm, Flash, etc. I still think it was very bad, especially for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been expelled, but it does not prevent us from restoring relations, since natural disasters can endanger both. With that in mind, I appreciate that you only interrupted me twice, but I still think it was a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10434	Thank you, too. The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10435	Right to replica under Article 104. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, sir...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10436	You're the one who reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, if you want to harm the Rules of Procedure. You don't have the right to a replica, he didn't mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10437	Is it okay if I explain on the basis of the Rules of Procedure why I answered?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10438	You don't need me to follow you well. Please, I followed well. No, you don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10439	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10440	No, no, I won't let you, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10441	Good, good on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10442	It's a business thing. Here you go, re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of Mr. Arsenovic, the respected Mr. Ilic, who did not answer my questions which I had previously asked, the respected guests of the ministry, I consider the Honorable Chairman to now have the right to reply on the basis of Rule 104 and I want to try to explain to you why I have the right to reply. After I spoke, Mr. Risticevic commented on a part of my speech, saying that I was wrong when I was Mr. Ilic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10444	Mr. Pavicevic, I won't let you. You're trying to abuse the Rules of Procedure. I can now give you a warning on this Rules of Procedure. Therefore, please or explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure and indeed you are human and friendly and friendly, however you wish to sit down, so as not to give you a warning. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10445	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Arsenovic, Honored Minister Ilic and the guests, I believe that just now, the Honored Chairman, is a injured member of 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Content of Article 104...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10446	Please, it can't be a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10447	How? Let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10448	He can't. Article 104 is a right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10449	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10450	It can't be.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10451	Let me explain how I had the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10452	I'll read you article 104. For everyone else's sake, if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly held an offensive statement about the MP, which was not...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10453	All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10454	Who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name, last name or function, which was not, or misread, his exposure, which was not...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10455	That's it. There he is, Mr. Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10456	Please wait. The MP to whom the exposure relates has the right to replicate if offensive expressions do not refer to the parliamentary group, the position to skip. This most important position, on the exercise of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2, is decided by the President, or by the chairman of the National Assembly, and I decide that you do not have the right. Please sit down. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10457	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry that two colleagues are present today from the former regime's representatives. I am grateful for their attention and for the energy they invest, those who have raised some issues, which have raised some questions during the afternoon session, whether they are uninterested in the topics or who do not like the answers they receive from representatives and MPs of the SNS, but thus do not show a lack of respect for the National Assembly and disrespect for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who sent us all here. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I am sorry and it is not good to call someone who is not there, so I will not use the name of an esteemed colleague, but it is often mentioned this morning that the bridge that connects Bačka Palanka and Ilock, the bridge in the dark, the bridge in which the national features and flags of the Republic of Serbia are in the dark until 14 August 2014 was in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. By 14 August 2014, the AP Vojvodina was in charge and all that colleagues said this morning, that there was a terrible government of the Republic of Serbia that did nothing, only one of which was deceived, not by the terrible government of the Republic of Serbia, but by the terrible government of Bojan Pajtic and AP Vojvodina. Therefore, because of this unhappiness and because of this thinking and counting of the province's MPs, both the state features and this bridge were in the dark, but were in the dark until 14 August 2014, where the initiative of the President of the Municipality of Backo Palanka and the decision of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic in the Government of the Republic of Serbia was transferred to the jurisdiction of JP "The Ways of Serbia" and of course that works and lighting were in one decent and normal state and began. So much for these answers. Mr Pavicevic is here, so I could also directly address and respect and appreciate it and there is no need for him to appear in the Rules of Procedure, here you can feel free to give a colleague the right to replication, but what he is, Mr. Chairman, since the issue of what the country's office is doing, what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, here I am going to give this material that is not small, which paints what the office is doing, what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing is very happy to give to Mr. Pavicevic, because he has not listened to me with good attention before or he does not want to hear about what it is doing, and I believe that this is different. We can talk further not just about rebuilding houses. We can also talk about public facilities, that only from a donation from the EU, in collaboration with the Office, 23 primary, secondary schools and kindergartens in Obrenovac, Sapac, Paracino and Svilanci, that with the facilities, schools will also receive donations in equipment, primarily for two million euros in furniture. The papers end in half of November of the month. I wish all the MPs would go through those papers. I guess that's when they'll see for themselves, and they won't be making any flat-rate claims led by winning political points. A total of 35 schools, kindergartens, health, cultural and sports facilities are financed from the donation of Norway, worth fourm euros. As far as agriculture is concerned, the implementation of the rural aid programme is under way, worth eightm euros, which is also funded by the EU, and is being implemented by the FAU in co-operation with the Office. The programme donates aid packages, seedlings, domestic animals, pet food, equipment for over 15,000 households on the territory of 29 municipalities that have suffered flood damage. That's what the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office do. Water has been pumped and coal exploitation has been restored from the Velika Creni Kolubar surface spear. Co-operation with the World Bank has provided funding for the water pump project from the Kolubar surface digging Tamnava "West Field". For this purpose, $30 million has been provided. The pump is under way and by the end of the year more than 180 million cc's of water will be pumped. These are the conditions of damage and these are the conditions of disasters suffered not only by these surface copies, but also by the whole country. In co-operation with the EU, the Office has provided funding for a 30m dinar water recovery project in Tristenik. The papers start on November 1st. You know, a plumbing or anything can't be done without a previous project, without the permits, without public procurement. In co-operation with the Ministry of Economy, the office has provided for the reconstruction of the heat pipeline in Obrenovac. The total value is 100 million dinars, etc. It would take a few sessions and it would take a lot more time than there is a SNS parliamentary group to talk about these things that I was talking about earlier. Unfortunately, someone did not want to hear, but very gladly, as is the transparent collection of funds, so is spending, I would transparently show you what the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office for the Reconstruction of the State is doing. One of the companies that suffered not the largest, but suffered great damage, which remained on its feet, which has been very helpful since, but also during the flood, is the Transport Company "Lasta" from Belgrade. She suffered damage because the bus stop in Obrenovac was completely submerged. Because it's also the administrative building and the garages on the highway because of the depression of the land and because of the finding of the building and the building in such an area, it has also suffered serious damage. With the involvement of all 4200 workers, whether "Laste", "Lastre" and the daughters of the firm, the company itself restored and compensated for the damage itself. They acted very responsibly in times of crisis and in Capco, but also in other parts. They were transporting, of course, with certain costs, interested citizens, citizens who responded to the call, and there were more than they needed at that time, the Prime Minister of Mr. Alexander Vukic, not caring for the spine, not caring for atmospheric conditions that were creepy, everyone knows that they were at those moments, and I believe we all gave some energy. It was not easy to be in Capac by silos, or in Cevrent, or any other location that was threatened by floods. The transport company Lasta until 14 months ago, when I was elected as member and chairman of the supervisory board by the government of Serbia, owed 58m euros under the leadership of the former regime. Of the total assets, 98% were mortgaged under the leadership of the former regime. So they didn't have their own gate because she was mortgaged. By 14 months of my stay, stay and other colleagues on the board of directors, with the highest recruitment of employees at the Lasta Transport Company, it is their success, I do not want to hide or be in a position to be in a position to limit myself to something other than that, their success by 14 months has been reduced by 9.8m euros. So 9.8m euros per year from 58m euros, the former regime's debt to the Lasta Transport Company, which is a stock company with 65% of the government's capital of the Republic of Serbia, with 65% of the state capital. Until 14 months ago, there weren't 300 official cars, but there were 130. By decision of the Supervisory Board, that number has been reduced to 40. The others are parked, and the keys stand with the CEO, Mr. Ljumovic, who, along with all other colleagues, is still struggling today to keep the company on its feet. That's not all. 14 months ago, 34% of claims on demand were spent. In advance, 34% of all of what Lasta was supposed to earn. That's what the former regime used to do. As for wages, salaries at the Lasta Transport Company for nine executive directors, as designed by the former regime, were paid between 380,000 and 500,000 dinars. By decision of the Supervisory Board, the number of executive directors has been reduced to five, and salaries are limited to 160,000 dinars, as are now. I think it's the attitude of responsible people. I am grateful not only for the management, but for all those valuable people who are on buses, who are now driving international, urban and suburban lines, located in the laundromats, located in accounting, anywhere "Lasta" operates and works, whether it is Kragujevac, is it Belgrade, is it Indjia, whether these are many local self-governments in which the Transport Company "Lasta" is engaged. As chairman of the Supervisory Board, I received compensation from the Agency for the fight against corruption. In line with the policy I voted for, the SNS policy, on the absence of the possibility of double functions, I resigned on September 1st, staying in friendly relations with both unions and employees and with the management of the Lasta Transport Company. I'm still going to help as much as I can, because I think it's the relationship of responsible people. The things that were done there, I will not investigate them, nor have I any right to do so, because this is not a courtroom here, nor are we lawyers or prosecutors or judges. It will be done by the judicial authorities of the Serbian state. I will not say, but neither defend, nor accuse, I will just say that "Lasta", which receives salaries from ten days of delay, which is in Serbia's rarity, you will admit, "Lasta" which is well held on both feet on the ground after a massive outflow of funds, even if over these 500,000 dinar salaries, for Lasta is interested in five foreign recapitalisation companies, for privatisation, for participation in "Lasta", that people in Lasta have more work, but also more earnings and a much better system. What I didn't do, but what I'm going to insist on with the future supervisory board, which is that "Lasta", even though it's a stock company, is entering the public procurement system, because so far there have been three offers, and so far the most favourable, and you know that three offers, well the most favourable, is disaster. I am therefore grateful to the "Last" management that makes efforts to enter the public procurement system as of 1 January 2015. I am sure that through the savings policy, the domestic property availability policy, "Lasta" will further reduce its liabilities and return back the assets they acquired, which the employees of "Lasta" have earned for years and decades of self-inflicted work. Finally, with gratitude for listening to me, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS will vote in favour of these agreements because it is necessary and necessary that we primarily connect in the region, to connect with our neighbours. When you're not feeling well, of course your neighbor will come to your aid first, but even when your neighbor's not well, it's normal for you to approach your neighbors and for that reason I'm happy with all the agreements that are being made with the countries in the environment. In this way, the Republic of Serbia also shows seriousness, but also shows not only declaratively, but also essentially that it becomes a leader in the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10458	Thank you. As a result of his injury to the Rules of Procedure, MP Borislav Stefanovic, head of the DS parliamentary group, reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10459	The most flagrant, the most severe violation of article 106, Mr. Chairman. The previous speaker spent 13 minutes and 34 seconds talking about a single company, answering questions that I asked the government, not him, and you let it in total chamber silence here to listen to 13 minutes of something that had nothing to do with the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10460	Mr. Stefanovic, I'm not sure you listened, you just entered the O.R. No DS MP is in the O.R. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I listened. Yes, Mr. Pavicevic, that's why you'll be entitled to the replica, but Mr. Stefanovic, I haven't noticed, I just noticed you in the O.R....
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10461	I've been sitting here for a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10462	... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10463	I think this is very incorrect what you said, because now you're facing your breach point 106. Rules of Procedure, I don't know what you were even going to say with this comment, whether or not the previous speaker was 13 minutes and 30 seconds talking about something that had nothing to do with the agenda point or not? Whether it's a theme or whether Pavicevic heard it or not. So you heard, Mr. Chairman. You didn't react. You let a man expose his romantic biography here, you didn't react. Let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10464	Mr. Stefanovic, you didn't get the ability to replicate. You've been given the opportunity to explain why I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10465	I think the plane from Ilyushin or Anton shows that you've violated article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10466	That's your impression, but MPs in voting day will decide whether I hurt the Rules of Procedure or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10467	I'm just wondering if you're aware that 13 minutes allowed the MP, he could talk about doping in sports, you wouldn't interrupt him. Do you run a session or do we listen to romantic biographies here?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10468	Mr. Stefanovic, there's no point in me convincing myself with you anymore. I am obliged to ask you if you would like to take the Parliament's vote in the day to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: No. ) The previous speaker, Mr. Babic, spoke about the floods, the subject of the agenda. If there's anything he said between those sentences, I didn't notice it. I don't know how you could have noticed and heard when you weren't in the O.R., when there aren't any DS MPs in the O.R. Do you want to make a statement in the Parliament's voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: No. I thank you. You've denied the possibility of the Assembly declaring whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: First I would like to advertise the Rules of Procedure, then the replica. Then I don't think there's gonna be any chance of a replica. You've had a chance to replicate, but if you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't know if you'll have one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10469	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Becic, the Honorable Minister Ilic, will not come to your turn to answer these questions, so first I have answered the Rules of Procedure now and here I can explain, and I have the right to reply. You're the one who tipped me off that I'm entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10470	He can't do both.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10471	A member of 108 just got injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when you kept talking after you mentioned the term of impression, the week, and when I mention the term of impression, the Honorable Chairman, Sunday, you shut me down here and then you say you're shutting me down because I'm not saying... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10472	Mr. Pavicevic, what you said, I didn't mention it. I just said I had the impression, but no week, today is not Sunday, today is Tuesday, so, Mr. Pavicevic, if you want the right to a replica, since your name is mentioned, please. The word has the People's MP, Professor Vladimir Pavicevic, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman of Becic, the Honorable Minister Ilic, I am still waiting for answers to questions, respected guests from the Ministry, I have the right to reply, of course, because Mr Babic has now mentioned my last name and I have three notes here, concerning this replica to Mr Babic. Of course, I appreciate that Mr. Babic mentioned my last name and thus suggested that we should have dialogue here, but my opinion is that dialogue should be conducted on the basis of rules written in the Rules of Procedure, not on the basis of the will of any man. This means that the right to replica exists not only when Mr Babic decides to mention someone's name and name. That's one thing. The second thing, Mr. Babic told me here is that it is very clear what the office managed by Mr. Marko Blagojevic is doing. I understand what it says to be the authority of that office, but my question wasn't that, the Honorable Chairman, my question to Mr. Ilic. My question was this, and I referred it to Mr. Ilic, and I'm waiting for an answer. When I said what Marko Blagojevic was doing, then I wanted to say that what this office is doing is consistent with what I expected under the Ministry Act to be done by Minister Ilic. Then my question here was - then who's the extra one? Is, Mr. Ilic, the excessive Marko Blagojevic and the office that was formed, or are you, Mr. Minister, superior to you as Minister in the Government without a portfolio? That was the question I wanted to ask here. I would like to say to Mr Babic that there are a few more questions that Mr Ilic has not answered, and I have primarily one question concerning the government's responsibility for inaction with the announcement of the flood damage we had in May.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10474	You're out of time. Thank you. I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic, for confirming that Mr. Babic spoke about the subject, because you mentioned Mr. Blagojevic, the office, the flood and the rest. The word has Minister Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10475	Finally, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to welcome you, to thank you for your extraordinary cooperation. It was a good debate, but what all minors have said will support these four agreements means a lot to Serbia. However, Serbia will also get something from this co-operation with Croatia in the event of elementary disasters and, of course, these two border crossings of life mean to Romania for residents of those parts. You know that with Romanians, we have excellent co-operation regarding electricity production, that it's been going on for years and that Gerdap has paid off multiple times and that we have extraordinary co-operation and no problem in managing such a big system. You also know, as far as driving licences are concerned, that it is important and that many citizens will have fewer problems, less pain, etc. There was one question of a People's MP for Trade, for another border crossing, another, etc., at Somboro. You know the procedure, the initiative is launched through the Foreign Ministry. The border crossing opens if both states agree. So one state suggests, but the other state has to accept it, whether it wants to have that cost and whether it means for its citizens that the transition can be opened. You can run that for both the Shop and other some border crossings. There were words here in Sombor, there were words about Kickinda, and that's the way and the way and it should allow people not to go 100-200 kilometers around, so they can make direct communication. Now you asked me, who's the extra one? That's not my call. I've accepted one ministry, which is new, in turn, and which primarily wants to work on prevention, project collection, so that there's no great harm, and if there's an elemental accident, there's as little damage as possible. We've proposed two new laws, which are in the process, the new anti-building protection system, the new fire protection system that's in the process. I hope that both projects will be accepted. We suggested that some very important, and did projects, projects resolved. We suggested that a project be done, and it is done, permanent protection, as much as possible, spears, Obrenovac, Krupanje and all of these places that were extremely endangered. We realize the project of permanent protection of Teki, the permanent protection of Grabovica, the permanent protection of many environments where natural disasters occurred, and maybe they could have been less. You asked me about the responsibility. I'm sure there's a responsibility, but I repeat, here's a specific responsibility on Gerdapo for 30-40 years. The obligation when the plant was built was to do it. It's not done until today. Now we've paid the price. There is responsibility elsewhere, but that responsibility is extremely broad. Why did someone allow construction in the blue area, where the area is not defended at all? Do you know that today after the flood, I've followed these days, built over 200 houses in an area where it's not 100% defended, but water is released in the event of some danger? Local authorities have granted permission. The responsibility is of all levels, but I repeat, that responsibility isn't since yesterday, that responsibility isn't now, that responsibility is long ago, 20-30 years ago. What happened? We should all support the proposal. They can't be partial water systems. One defends one shore, and the other one, and the other races, and who will let go of the embankment, and who will be flooded, and who will not. It is known exactly, by law, where the water is released if the threat is great. Rather, it will be released into a forest that was defended by a politician, and he boasted that he had defended the forest, and for example, the settlement flooded thousands of houses. Therefore, the unique system of Serbia must be. You know why Belgrade water was built, because there was some two-state, so they made Belgrade water, so they made Vojvodina water, so one Danube coast is protected by one company, and the other is protecting the other coast and they're raising a slightly larger rash, and these are a little lower and they're ruining both of them. It is known that the system must be unique and that the general interest is seen. If water has to be dropped somewhere, it's known exactly where it's being dropped and where the damage is the least. If there is a responsibility, and surely a human factor always exists, I repeat, there are competent services involved. It is ugly that one of the individuals says – Pera is guilty, Žika is guilty, etc. It's very difficult to react in the field at the right time in a city. Someone once built the city, here's a specific Paracian, and made such a curve in the center of town that it was threatened... It was supposed to be removed once, and now it can't, because houses were built. You know that the famous Bobište of Leskovec could never be solved because 20 years ago, the municipality allowed the spread to be made and the riverbed to be narrowed down. What have we done now? We had to cut through the new trough outside the settlement, through the fields, cut the river, half go through the new stream, half the old one. That solution was good, but expensive. Therefore, some things could have been warned. I repeat, this disaster that hit us, it was supposed to be there, it was hard to defend. Believe me, I've been in Tekia since the first second. Imagine when she went five feet high and you have 50 meters to the Danube. If it wasn't for three ships to accept the people, we'd all go to the Danube. Whoever broke into the Danube never found it. People parked their ships and they all ran to the boat. It was the only salvation. Understand that. In history, no one recorded that water, that kind of force, that kind of power. Of course, it could have been pre-warned. Maybe there wasn't supposed to be a settlement when it was evicted from Gerdap this part, but in the waterway of the lush water, a settlement was built. It was done 40 years ago. Thank you for your cooperation on one correct discussion. The opposition will always criticise, but everyone is responsible for this and they were all in some governments when many things could be done. It wasn't you personally, but it was the parties. Everyone missed and moved the ball, but I'm gonna pay for this government, and that's when it happened. It could've been in the last one, but it wasn't. This is a science for the future, to do everything we can, not to pass on the ball to others, so that they can be blamed tomorrow, etc. Ten governments in the back is wrong about what happened. Everybody, a little bit. There's no record of anything like this. Once again, thank you very much for your cooperation and I can tell you that Serbia has received a lot, and that you will all support this and do a good thing for this people who are eager to adopt something like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10476	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10477	I must say, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, that we have seen today in this debate both the opposition and most in this room agree on what is undoubtedly good for the state of Serbia. We could also see, unfortunately, in the second part of the session what Branislav Nusic said freedom is often a phrase, and tyranny is always true. There's no way around it, it looks like it's in the palm of your hand. We all know what's going on, we all listen to the same words, insults, untrues, we all hold the same Rules of Procedure in our hands, with most of them having some books we didn't get, and we have these with solid covers... (Ninoslav Girić, from the place: You will receive. Thank you. Then you know, the majority leader here talks 13 and a half minutes about one company. No one cares that it has nothing to do with the subject and the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10478	Mr. Stefanovic, you're just telling someone else what you're trying to blame. I'd like to ask you to talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10479	Okay, so now I won't be able to talk about "Last". Let's try it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10480	Just in your speech you're trying to say that one of the MPs wasn't talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10481	That's what I'm trying to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10482	But then you do what you do to others and I don't get into whether it's true or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10483	You're taking my time needlessly. So, the Republic of Serbia ministry has transferred management and management of 6,000km of road in Vojvodina to the AP Vojvodina even though it does not have a business to do so. Then they transferred it to the local self-government, and then eventually they transferred it to the "Roads of Serbia" public enterprise, the apropo of that bridge that was mentioned a lot today, so it had nothing to do with the truth that we heard here earlier. There's no connection, even if they drew it, they wouldn't recognize it, but it doesn't stop anyone here from saying what comes to mind. Also, there is now a story of losses, of an unnatural evil regime, of a non-domestic business that was headed by a friend and a friend by the profession and water polo, Mr Sovrović, Mr Babic, and he was with us, but he stayed with the Progressives. So, the one who made those losses and everything they said, then moved in with you, so you arrested him afterwards. So, the truth works, that's what you have to say. We have an agreement that regulates preventively that the two states prepare for disaster, for cataclysm, for horror, for flood, for fire and for us instead of how you will do it, taught, learned about your ignorance and incompetence during the May flood, instead of talking about it, we are now talking about what the former regime was doing, what you were doing, and the truth is impenetrable.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10484	Time, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10485	It's not time. You took 30 seconds away from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10486	I let you go 15 seconds more, and I didn't want to interrupt you, but what you said, I think you've offended, not just the members of parliament, but the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10487	Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10488	To call that one accident that happened to the Republic of Serbia in those words, to use those words.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10489	What words?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10490	Mr. Stefanovic, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10491	Tell me what, how I hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10492	Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10493	I said it was cataclysm, I said it was an accident, what did I insult? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10494	Between what you said. I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has a folk MP, head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic. ( National MP Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Why? You mentioned his name and name. On that basis, everyone else has a replica today. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10495	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Somehow, the habit of facing hatred, the habit of facing very dangerous vibrations that come from the other side, with some strange notion of democracy that no matter how small she may be, no matter how much she doesn't have the trust and justification of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, she can also ask insults, she can insult, she can hate, she can ask questions, and the other side has no right to answer, and that answer is based in the truth, in the reports, in very precise figures. What if I was talking about Krusik and Valyev? What if we were to talk about the "Electro Network of Serbia" and the question to which the answer was raised, and all that "Electro Network of Serbia" is now working in one part of Belgrade, it was done on the basis of the agreement of the project done by the former regime, so now we are responsible for just executing and continuing the project? How much longer will we face this hatred? Because it's not hate for me personally. I don't have a problem at all. According to my family, according to our families, to my colleagues. It's hate for the people who sent us here. I haven't mentioned anyone in person, nor will I be doing it in the future. Neither will I accuse anyone, nor will I defend anyone, whether from the SNS or not, but what is the fact is that "Lasta", as well as many other companies in Serbia, other than their private companies, experienced a devastation during the former regime, an abduction and over-indebted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10496	Thank you. I'm concluding a joint single search. We move on to the proposal on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by Parliament MP Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to article 193 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for discussion in the principle of parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs and members of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search on the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does the proposing representative, MP Dijana Vukomanovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ( ) There was only one application for a word in a single search of the motion for a decision. The word has Professor Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Mr Becic, unfortunately the MPs of the NS will have to vote against the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly, which he proposed, or delivered to the SPS parliamentary group, whose chairman is Mrs Diana Vukomanovic. Please just let me explain why we cannot vote on this proposal this time, although in previous situations we have voted in favour of the motions for decisions concerning the election of board members regardless of which parliamentary groups that these proposals have come from.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10498	Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic. You have five minutes, actually four more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10499	Ms. Vukomanovic, as president of the parliamentary group, sent a proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members where some MPs are expected to be relieved of the duties of members of the National Assembly board and some other MPs are elected instead. There's eight of them here and they're all SPS. What's my grudge? I'm speaking first of all to Mrs. Vukomanovic. We're...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10500	You can't speak directly. You can take me as chairman.?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10501	Well, yes, to you, but to Mrs. Vukomanovic to be transferred. So, you can pass it on to Mrs. Vukomanovic. We've been here since this assembly meeting was established, when assembly committees were established, when it was decided to replace some members of the defense, every time we voted for an argument and a proposal. The argument is that the Assembly committees should work. Our proposal was then that the parliamentary groups that have a number of members, especially this largest parliamentary group, and then in turn the other, should cultivate one special democratic spirit by, in spite of the fact that the Rules of Procedure did not provide that independent MPs, in this case the NS, would not be able to run for members of the board, that on their behalf or on behalf of their parliamentary groups, we, as independent MPs for the members of the committee, would be proposed by the presidents of these parliamentary groups. What was I thinking? I think it is true that it is a good democratic custom, which was in force, I think in this Assembly in previous meetings, that the largest parliamentary group, and on its behalf, Mr Babic, is proposing one of the independent MPs for a member of the National Assembly Committee of the RS. It's a good democratic custom. Since, Mr. Chairman, that Mr. Babic did not propose to Mr. Zivkovic within these six months, nor me to be full members of any committee of the National Assembly, then I felt it was okay to ask Mrs. Vukomanović, within this point of the agenda, why, as head of the parliamentary group that is part of the ruling coalition, also for these six months, did not show a particular feeling, to say, for this good democratic custom? I feel the following, and I have concluded this on the basis of talks with the MPs, that there is not one person, not one MP in the SPS Parliament Club who would vote, for example, against Ms Vukomanovic, as president of the parliamentary group, proposing either Mr Zivkovic or me to be full members of one of the committees in the Serbian Parliament. I remind you, honored gentlemen and your esteemed chairman, that according to our Rules of Procedure, we have 19 committees of the National Assembly here. We have seats on each of these committees for 17 MPs. You multiply that, you get to 323. So there are 323 seats on our committees for MPs chosen to represent the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I asked myself this - how come neither Mr Babic, nor Mrs Vukomanovic, who runs the parliamentary group that is part of the ruling coalition did not conclude in these six months that one of these 323 seats should be recommended or that an independent MP should be proposed to be a member of the board of one of these 323.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10502	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10503	All I'm suggesting is that in some next draft decision, this mistake is fixed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10504	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Before I give my word to Mr. Babic, I'd just have a tiny comment, if you don't mind. Your inexperience has helped to keep you in this situation. You should have waited first to be deployed in your former coalition of those places and only after that to step out of that parliamentary group, so that you would now be members of the board. Here's a word for Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10505	Mr. Chairman, my answer is no. My answer is – I will not break the law, and the law that defines the work of the MPs is the Rules of Procedure. I'm not breaking the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, which was written by the second congregation majority, defined that independent MPs, and there were also in the 9th Assembly, and there were others in the 8th Assembly, could not be members of any congregation committee. Does the previous speaker ask me to break the law? I will not do this, as I will not violate the electoral will of the Serbian citizens. The electoral will of the citizens of Serbia is sacred to me, sacred to the SNS of the Holy One. The polls are places where the number of committees is determined and who will sit here and who will sit in Germany, Serbian citizens say. As far as this democratic capacity is concerned, I think the previous speaker should come from calling for that democratic capacity in those parliamentary groups that have the democratic one prefixed its name. He shared pre-election values with them, so why not share post-election values? At the wrong address of Mr. Pavicevic's house for weeks. My answer, the SNS response is definitely – we will not violate the election will of citizens, we will not break the law, and knocking on the door will have to knock on the other door.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10506	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Diana Vukomanovic. (Vladimir Pavicevic: The name itself. I didn't hear the last name, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10507	Mr. Granny, did you mention my last name? He mentioned, Mr. Becic, please, Mr. Babic says he mentioned my last name. The man confirms that he mentioned my last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10508	I thank my fellow Members of the People, and I will, this is an opportunity to affirm a programme of the SPS that really advocates always, in every instance, the Socialists helping the powerless and weaker than themselves. However, I think that a respected colleague would agree with me, that what he asked of us, so that we use great support, the significant support that we have received from our voters to help the weak and powerless, would already go to compassion and mercy, and I don't think anyone wants to build their political career by giving him crumbs of participation in decision-making in power. Therefore, I think that this appeal for help, for mercy, should have been extended to some other respected heads of parliament whose list of representatives of the New Party jointly participated in the elections. I really appreciate this. I'll take this as a well-intentioned initiative. At the same time, I am pleased that the distinguished colleague who said he would not vote for our proposal to replace the members or deputies of the board failed to make any convincing argument as to why our staff could not be responsible and honorably perform those duties. So, compassion and mercy do not expect us.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10509	Thank you, Mrs. Vukomanovic. Do you want a replica or a Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10510	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10511	Mr. Pavicevic, would you like to reply to a replica or to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10512	Don't you, Mr. Becic, want me to address the MPs with dignity when I get my word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10513	Can you just answer if you want the right to a replica, since your party is mentioned and you say your name is mentioned, or the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10514	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10515	Just tell me on what basis do I give you my word that I could give you a word, a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10516	Please, dear Mr. Becic, make your own decision on the basis of which you wish to give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10517	You have a replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10518	Replic, two minutes, all right. This is two minutes for the previous one, I have to say, two exhibitions, because Mr. Babic also told you that he mentioned my last name, even though you didn't hear it, and Mrs. Vukomanovic was also talking about something that I was saying and I think she misread me. I consider this, it is okay for Mr Babic, as president of the most numerous parliamentary group here, to say – I will not propose any of the members of the Parliament alone to be full members of the committee, any of the National Assembly. What's important to know, Your Honor's chairman? When Mr Babic said that, then Mr Babic actually announced that the Progressive Party does not want in this Assembly to cultivate good democratic customs, and that is a huge problem, I think. It is a replica to Mr Babic, the Honorable Chairman of Becic. I set it up for a minute. Then let me also say to the respected Mrs. Vukomanovic, I think it is also a big problem when someone who is a politician, who doctored in the fields of political sciences, terms of mercy, compassion and similar benefits to describe good democratic practices and customs. If someone here in the National Assembly had tied it up without graduating, mastering and doctoring at the FPN, I would have been willing to understand it, but this performance here I cannot understand and equate it with what was Mr Babic's performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10519	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Since you mentioned Mr. Babic's name and name, unfortunately, I have to give a replica. Here you are. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10520	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, this transfer is indeed being followed by citizens of the Republic of Serbia and is known exactly who is saying. I don't need a lawyer and I don't need someone to interpret my words. I have said it loud and clear - I will not break the law, I will not violate the Rules of Procedure, I will not violate the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and I will mention it a million more times. But this smells different to me. This is an offer. I think the previous speaker is being offered either to join a coalition with Mrs. Vukomanovic or with the Serbian Progressive Party. You know, these are some things that are democratic, that are correct. We can communicate, I doubt it, but we can communicate. So if this is about making some future coalitions or offering the previous speaker, well, we'll really talk. But in this dimension limited by the book that Mr. Pavicevic has just held in his hand, I don't know if he's going to shoot me or be called to the rules of the Rules of Procedure, no single member defines that independent MPs can be members of the board, but that they can take part in the work. That they can discuss at every committee session, that they can give their opinion, in any case, so that this National Assembly really has a democratic tone and I don't want anything to be respected to the National Assembly that is more important than any individual, than any of us, who will outlive us. That this is the way the insult of the state will not be allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10521	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Pavicevic, I don't think you have the right to a replica, but you're on your own... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: How come I don't have one? Mr. Pavicevic, only if you can listen to me. The very fact that you have raised the Rules of Procedure is clear to you that you do not have the right to reply. Secondly, for the second time, I ask you not to worry, as in this case, that you will not do anything with this Rules of Procedure, wait until the speaker is finished, and then advertise the Rules of Procedure, because in this case, when you get up, jump up and wave, then think someone wants you to shoot him. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10522	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, I believe that a member of 108 has just been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which it is written, on the agenda of the National Assembly, shall be taken care of by the President of the National Assembly. Dear Chairman, there have been a few moments when you, I think by your inaction, have shown that you are not taking care of the order in running a session of the National Assembly, and I think you yourself have contributed at one point. Just to let you know what these moments are, to explain why the Rules of Procedure in Rule 108 has been injured. When you, the Honorable Chairman, for example, tell me that if I raise this book, which bears the title "The Collection of Regulations", which contains the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that means, Mr. Becic, that I want to intervene in the Rules of Procedure, and you cannot interpret that when I raise the book, I want to throw the book at Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10523	Mr. Pavic, allow me...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10524	Can I continue for two minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10525	You'll keep going, just let it go. I would still like to hear my words spoken correctly. I asked that when you want to advertise the Rules of Procedure to wait for the speaker to finish, and only then do you advertise the Rules of Procedure, because in the course of the speech, when you get up suddenly and wave to the Rules of Procedure, someone, like in this case Mr. Babic, might think that you want something else...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10526	I don't know what those fears are.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10527	I have made only one suggestion so that MPs who speak at that time would not be concerned that you would like something else in the heat of discussion with this Rules of Procedure, that you would still wait for the MP to finish, and that at that moment you would get up and I would be very happy to give you the right to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10528	I understand what you were going to say, but I must add on the basis of this first intervention that when I, for example, think that one MP is not being held in his speech of the contents of the Rules of Procedure, and that you do not intervene, the Honorable Chairman, the only thing left for me to do is to raise this collection of regulations and give you a sign that you should intervene, warn the MP to violate the Rules of Procedure, so that this practice does not stand here. That's one thing, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10529	I apologize and thank you. So we're introducing a new practice into the National Assembly. So far, for the past 18 years, no MP has mentioned it and I thank you for introducing a new practice. So, in the course of a speaker's speech, you raise the Rules of Procedure, that means I should stop him at that point.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10530	Warn.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10531	I don't think that's according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Pavicevic, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10532	I don't know how much time I have now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10533	Finish it, I'll interrupt you when...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10534	But to concentrate a little time. Another thing, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, Mr. Babic is an example. I just said he won't break the law. I just have to say about article 108 that Mr. Babic will not break any laws and no rule if either Mr. Zivkovic or I are running on behalf of his parliamentary group to be members of the Assembly Committee, respected...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10535	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10536	Please, I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10537	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10538	I haven't run out. I've got another 30 seconds. I've been counting.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10540	Just to add to the end of this performance, I can understand that the SNS parliamentary group wants the support of Zoran Zivkovic and me and this Assembly, but for such a policy led by Alexander Vucic cannot be... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10541	Mr. Pavicevic, Mr. Babic is in addition to what you said one very important thing, that he does not wish to violate the electoral will of the citizens. The word is Mrs. Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10542	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it's Miholj's summer, it's a sunny day, and it looks like we're all inspired to lead, I'd say, a well-intentioned discussion. I am truly honored that my esteemed colleague emphasizes the fact that he and I, like many others here, have graduated from the same school or that we are intellectuals, but I also stress that this is not quite an accident, that his good will to seek help and support from the SPS. Since we've all been well informed, I want this public, and I believe he won't be ashamed of the fact that we've recently had the pleasure of hosting him on the main SPS board, but there has been no opposition as far as the SPS is concerned, as far as I know. Perhaps now is the chance to bring about this, that Mr. counterpart, the senior official of the New Party, intends to write another new book about former President Slobodan Milosevic. I suppose this request of his is for help and for staffing within the National Assembly is upon the trail of his personal ambition. I would also point out that we are all really fighting in the first place to support citizens, not selecting funds. This is one of the more likable means to strengthen our political positions, but we are also responsible for the citizens. Each place in the Serbian Tax Assembly costs about 20,000 euros. I speak in euros, and that's over two million dinars. We can joke until suddenly, there's time, like I said, it's a sunny day, but I'm really asking you to conduct a serious and reasoned debate and not to abuse the time or attention of our viewers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10543	Mrs. Vukomanovic, I have just been informed by MP Pavicevic that you are not presenting the secrets you have just presented. The word is Mr. Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, I think he is now in violation of Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, concerning the dignity of the messengers of the people and the dignity of the National Assembly. Dignity also concerns some truths. I just need to explain now how the Rules of Procedure got broken. I've never been a guest of the SPS board, Mr. Becic, ever. The fact that I am one of the few MPs in this assembly of the National Assembly who, from point to point of the agenda of each session of the National Assembly, shows one openness to dialogue, to discuss all the issues discussed in this National Assembly, I think that's one good thing. We should be conducting a democratic dialogue here, but it's very important that we don't bring up any untruths here during the debate... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10545	Mr. Pavić, now you warn me even when I react. I reacted to Mrs. Vukomanovic's statement and warned that she was not out of secrets, and now you're telling me again that I didn't react, and that I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure. Please make arrangements whether I should react or not? The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica, since you mentioned his name and name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10546	No, my name and name are not important, the name of the SNS and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is mentioned, and I am the head of the parliamentary group of Mr. Vukic's party.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10547	Here you are, Mr. Granny. You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10548	Someone was honest, and someone else was blushing. Interestingly, and in an interesting direction, this debate is being held, and I would like Mr. Becic to further expand and expand it, and there is really no problem with the truth and to get to the truth and to know the truth of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What I'm responding to is that in the last sentence, since then usually some people are the bravest, the last line on the door, is also the name, but not the support of Alexander Vukic's politics. The government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Aleksandar Vukic has overhalf the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That support doesn't sleep, that support is binding, that support is won in elections, not cheers in front of some TV or I don't know where else. This support was received on the basis of an honest policy and a sincere desire for our society to change, to reform our society, to put our public finances on healthy feet, to build institutions. One long-term and sacrificed fight against crime and corruption. One brave policy in very volatile and difficult international conditions. All of this culminated in what we could hear the other night, and the Serbian public, in a show where they gave answers to many questions, where it proved that the Prime Minister, that SNS, that Mr Alexander Vukic, had both the will and the desire, and the plan, and faith in the better and decent future of Serbia and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10549	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is Dr. Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10550	So, the truth works, because in our parliamentary oath we're also told that we're going to fight for the truth, so the clarification. The main committee is mentioned, I said – guest on the main board of our party. The headquarters of the General Board is Student Square. So I was very well informed that Mr. People's MP there requested a reception from the senior SPS official with that very explanation, the ambition to write a book about Slobodan Milosevic. So, I said, we're here for the fact that we're on the table. Now, was it a hidden attempt to agree with Mr. President of the New Party or some of his personal ambitions? A hidden attempt to offer the hands of a coalition partnership with us, I wouldn't interpret it that far. I just want to tell you, when you start calling the SPS, we really want to run politics in a transparent way. So our main headquarters is in the Student Square and the fact is, I am well informed that you went in there and that you discussed how much I know about the book on Slobodan Milosevic. Don't run from the truth when you call the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10551	I thank Mrs. Vukomanovic. The word has been made by Professor Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, I believe he has just been injured by article 106. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which says that the speaker can only speak of the agenda. Mrs. Vukomanovic, dear Mr. Becic, speaks of everything except what is the agenda point. I remind you, Mr. Becic, what is the point of the agenda, my suggestion that the head of the largest parliamentary group, and if not him, that the head of the SPS parliamentary group, should show one sense of a good democratic custom that implies, Mr. Becic, that independent MPs should also have the opportunity to participate fully in the work of the Committee of the Serbian Parliament. All beyond that, whether anyone has an interest in analysing the policies of Slobodan Milosevic, the politics of Aleksandr Vukic, that is all, Mr. Becic, respected beyond the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-14-0.u10553	Mr Pavicevic, please, since you have now given one information that is not correct, it is not currently on the agenda that you propose that certain parliamentary groups, in this case the SNS and the Socialist Party give up two seats on committees, are here, not to continue, here on the agenda and your proposal. Here is Dr. Diana Vukomanovic's proposal to amend the decision on the assembly committees. So Mrs. Vukomanovic talked about her proposal, she said she could not give you a seat, also Mr. Babic. Also when I warned the speaker Mrs. Vukomanovic, actually when I gave the suggestion that she was taking secrets in this assembly, you interrupted me for why I did it, now you're advertising the Rules of Procedure again, which is why I didn't do it. I really don't know what you want me to do today at today's session, and I can't understand what you want me to do anymore, so I'd like you to let me close this session after we've exhausted our agenda. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Dear Mr. Becic, I allow you to close the session. I thank you. Since the parliamentary group's lists are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. On the basis of Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision. Since we have carried out a unique search, and since the proposal for a decision has not been made to you by the amendments, the National Assembly will in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure in voting day to decide on a proposal for a decision in general. We'll continue work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m.
