ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3259	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 88 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 102 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Bojan Ziric, Dr Dragana Barisic, Žika Gojkovic and Srdjan Dragojevic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session: Saša Varinac, President of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and Filip Vladisavljevic, Secretary of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. I would like to remind you, pursuant to Article 97, that, in agreement with the decision to conduct a joint single search on the agenda proposals for items in items 4 and 5 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192(3) and Article 239(1) and Article 157(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint single search on: Report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures from 1 April to 30 June 2013, with the Information on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures from 1 April to 30 September 2013 and with the proposal for a conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic Budget and the control of public spending from 16 June 2014 and the report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures in the period from 1 July to 31 December 2013, with a proposal for the conclusion of the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds from 16 June 2014. Does the report's representative want the word, Sasha Varinac? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3260	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I can say that it is an honor and pleasure to attend this session and that I have the opportunity to present the first two reports of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures in this session. The Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in this Assembly has been working since 1 April 2013 and has taken office on the basis of a competition and elections conducted by the National Assembly under the new Public Procurement Act. The Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures is an independent state body with more competences set out in the Public Procurement Act. Those powers shall be laid down in Article 139. The law and we can divide it into two groups. The first and main groups of competences concern solutions to the applications submitted for the protection of the rights of dissatisfied participants in public procurement procedures. The second group of competencies are so-called. Special powers granted by the Republic Commission to the new Public Procurement Act. These powers are to carry out a first-degree infringement procedure in the field of public procurement, to control the execution of decisions of the Republic Commission in the contracting authorities, to fine the contracting authorities for procedural non-discipline in the protection of the right, to annul concluded procurement contracts and to sanction abuses of rights requirements. For the first time in the new Public Procurement Act, the content of the report provided by the Republic Commission to the National Assembly, i.e. the committee responsible, which is the Committee on Finance, has been defined. That content is defined in 15 points, 15 groups of data, if we could say so. The report is delivered twice a year, ending on September 30th and March 31st. You have two reports on the work of the Republic Commission in the previous year. The first report is from 1 April to 30 June 2013. This report is shorter than six months, as prescribed by the law, for the simple reason that the Republic Commission has started working on April 1st and has practically begun to apply a new law and has made a commitment to draw up and deliver such reports to the National Assembly. The second report concerns the period from 1 July to 31 December 2013. As regards the content of the report provided by the Republic Commission to the National Assembly, as I have said, 15 points and 15 data groups are provided for by the Republic Commission to inform the National Assembly. These data are: the procedures which have been partially or in general annulled are referred to public procurement procedures, then, the procedures in which the Republic Commission has decided to submit a request for protection of the rights of the contracting authorities, then, the information on the contracting authorities which have not provided the requested documentation, reports and controls by the Republic Commission with the contracting authorities, the information on the contracting authorities which did not respect the instructions of the Republic Commission and did not remove the irregularities set out in the decisions of the Republic Commission, the information on irregularities which are common in public procurement procedures and the activities carried out by the Republic Commission to remove those irregularities, then, the information on contracts which have been annulled, the information on the contracting authorities and the responsible persons who have been given the fine, then, the infringement procedures carried out by the Republic of the Commission, and the solutions which have been made in this sense by the Administrative Court, as well as the Supreme Vergregation of the Court, which have not been followed by the Republic's in the Republic's decision of the Republic, which have been adopted by the Republic, the Republic's, the Commission, the Commission's decision to follow. All the information I have provided is certainly contained in both reports delivered to the National Assembly. On this occasion, in the framework of the presentation of the work report for the previous year, I would remain at four points from this mandatory content of the report on the work of the Republic Commission. First of all, the first point of the Reports are public procurement procedures which have been partially or in general annulled by the Republic Commission. This item presents all the cases in which the Republic Commission has made such decisions, decisions to annul the procurement procedures in which it has found that there are certain irregularities, and each of these cases is presented so that the number of decisions, the date of the decision, the name of the contracting authority, the name of the applicant, the subject of the procurement, the estimated value, as a decision of the Republic Commission, is presented. In particular, the decisions made under the old Public Procurement Act and the decisions made under the new Public Procurement Act are presented. In this respect, I can point out that during the course of last year we also had cases relating to public procurement procedures that were initiated under the provisions of the old law, but also to cases which were initiated, or public procurement procedures initiated under the provisions of the new law, and therefore this difference was made and decisions taken under one or another law were separated. Also, although this is not an obligation defined by the Public Procurement Act, other decisions made by the Republic Commission have been presented. So, and the decisions on rejection and the procedural decisions we've made. What I would particularly like to point out is that all the decisions presented in this report on work are published on the website of the Republic Commission, in an integrated version. So if there is an interest and a need to check the reasons and reasons for making decisions, it can certainly be seen by visiting our website, by finding the decision that has been made. Certainly, if there are questions and the need to clarify the decision on any of these cases, we will provide all the necessary information and declare each of the decisions. Since these are the two reports relating to the previous year, I can say that in the first reporting period, from 1 April to 30 June 2013, the Republic Commission held 72 sessions and a total of 382 decisions were made, and 307 of these were related to submitted requests for the protection of the rights of dissatisfied participants in public procurement procedures. From that number, in 99 cases, the Republic Commission made a decision to annul the public procurement process in general, and in 93 cases, the public procurement procedure was partially annulled. Therefore, you can see that out of 307 cases, which concerned protection requirements for dissatisfaction in public procurement procedures, a decision was taken in 192 cases to repeal the procurement procedure. On the other hand, a total of 290 sessions of the Republic's Law Protection Commission were held between July 1st and December 31st 2013. Otherwise, according to the provisions of the new law, the Republic Commission is working in more than three members, and this has speeded up our work a lot, because at the same time we can hold two sessions and thus be more up-to-date and more subjects to process. At these 290 sessions, a total of 1211 decisions were made during this second reporting period, and of these 1211 decisions, 951 were covered by applications for the protection of the right. Of that number, in 199 cases the procurement procedure was annulled in general, and in 361 the procurement procedure was partially annulled. Therefore, of the total number of 951 cases relating to rights protection requirements during this period, a decision was taken in 560 cases to repeal the procurement procedure. I would now move to the sixth point under this Report of the Republic Commission, which refers to the most frequent irregularities that the Republic Commission has seen in the handling of cases, in particular by deciding on rights protection requirements, and which certainly were the reason for repealing public procurement procedures. The first thing that we can point out under these irregularities is that not only is the disregard for the provisions of the Public Procurement Act itself, but also the provisions of the sublegal acts that have been passed. One of the most important sublegislative acts is certainly the Regulation on mandatory elements of competition documentation. We have determined that in a number of cases, orderers seem to ignore having sublaws, looking at and applying only the Public Procurement Act. Sublaws are very important because they specify the provisions of the law and must not be disregarded either when drawing up competition documents or in the public procurement process itself. The following irregularity that we could highlight is often unclear and inaccurate containing competitive documentation that makes it impossible or difficult for bidders to draw up an acceptable offer that will be competitive and that will enter into the professional assessment of bids and rankings. It is concluded that technical specifications, conditions and criteria for the award of contracts which are not logically related to the subject of public procurement are listed in the competition documentation. The lack of that logical relationship often leads us to the conclusion that there is a certain discrimination and a restriction on competition. These are certainly cases where the Republic Commission makes decisions to repeal public procurement procedures. Also, one of the irregularities observed and which is the reason for the annulment of public procurement procedures is the unfair implementation of the negotiation procedures. Negotiations are the most lenient public procurement procedures, in order for the contracting officer to have the right to carry out the negotiation procedure to determine the fulfilment of the conditions and prove compliance with the conditions laid down in the Law implementing the negotiation procedure. The Republic Commission shall also have an obligation, under official duty, to, whatever is not stated in the application for protection of the right to pay attention to whether the conditions for the application of certain types of procedure are met, are understood unless an open or restrictive procedure which, under the provisions of the new law, constitute a rule in public procurement is opened. Often, in cases where a decision has been taken to repeal public procurement procedures, we have found an incorrect and unfounded expert assessment of offers. In the decision to award the contract, there is no reason why an offer was rejected, why someone got more or less points when ranking so-called. weighting, as they are called in the Law on Public Procurement itself, or we simply cannot conclude how many offers there have been, how the formulas for the award of points have been applied. The last thing I would point out as an irregularity is that contracting entities acting in first-degree protection proceedings, the Republic Commission acting in the second-degree and making a final decision, do not establish the existence of procedural assumptions for the application for protection of rights, do not determine whether a republican administrative tax laid down by law has been paid. Then whether timely rights protection requirements, whether they are declared by persons who have an active legitimacy for this, are orderly rights requirements. Then it is on the Republic Commission in the second degree to determine all this, which certainly leads to one spending of time and deadlines that are short. The deadline for action of the Republic Commission shall be 20 days from the date of receipt of the regulatory request. So if the first-degree contracting authorities could do so and determine the existence of procedural assumptions, which ultimately is their obligation to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, we would certainly have one more efficient and economical procurement process. I would now move on to other activities taken by the Republic Commission to protect rights in public procurement procedures. I mentioned at the beginning of the presentation of these work reports, that the Republic Commission received certain special powers. I can tell you that during the previous year, the Republic Commission, first of all, was focused on resolving submitted rights requirements for one simple reason, because, under the provisions of the law, the application for protection of rights retains increasingly the activities of the contracting authority. It is then also the obligation of the Republic Commission to respect, to the maximum extent possible, the deadlines laid down by law and to allow for the continuation of the activities of the contracting authority as soon as possible, in order to obtain the good services and works necessary to carry out its duties. In that sense, I would point out that the special powers given to the Republic Commission do not require short-term treatment. So all of this will be implemented more and the Republic Commission will make decisions in the next period and will be presented in subsequent reports to the National Assembly. I must also point out that throughout the previous year, the Republic Commission has sought to provide a series of technical and organisational needs so that it can exercise all the powers it has received. In this respect, it is important to say that two of the new powers received by the Republic Commission are practically judicial powers. This is the implementation of a first-degree infringement procedure and the annulment of a public procurement contract. So we had an obligation to set up a state body that could be referred to as some kind of administration body to act as a court in these cases. This certainly required the amendment of the Rules of Procedure on Labour, the amendment of the Labour Systematization Act, special departments, or organisational units to carry out all these powers, and also a series of internal decisions that allow for resolutions to take place in these cases. What I would also point out is that the Republic Commission has been empowered by the new Public Procurement Act to adopt principled legal views. The main legal positions shall be adopted at the general meetings of the Republic Commission attended by the President and by all members of the Republic Commission. The main legal views are views on some of the most significant issues regarding the interpretation of important provisions of the Public Procurement Act. The aim of the principled legal views is to coordinate, above all, the work in the larger ones within the Republic Commission, but also to point out to all participants in the procurement procedures in which the Republic Commission decides and thus introduces a high degree of certainty in the conduct of this State Authority. During these two reporting periods, a total of ten principled legal positions and all decisions of the Republic Commission were adopted and these principles were published on the website of the Republic Commission. With regard to the decisions published on the website, I owe another clarification. All decisions made under the new Public Procurement Act are also published on the portal of public procurement, so that we have practically published decisions on the website of the Republic Commission and on the portal of public procurement. The decisions are published only after the parties in the procedure are informed of their content, meaning after the parties are delivered to the proceedings, and you will notice on our website on the portal that there is a certain time interval from the last published decision, but this is the consequence of our obligation to first hand over the parties to the proceedings, and only after that we publish the decisions we make. Certainly, what can be pointed out for this reporting period, i.e. these two reporting periods, is one continuous work on co-operation and coordination with other state bodies that are in charge of public procurement, first of all, with the Public Procurement Administration and the DRI, but also with budgetary inspection, prosecutors, misdemeanor courts. Our employees in the previous period have passed a series of training on the misdemeanour procedure. Especially important is the cooperation we have with the Judicial Academy in this regard, and I think it will contribute to the successful exercise of the special powers that we have received from the new law. What is very important and what we tried to achieve in the previous year is to enable the efficient and simple search of the decisions we make and in this sense we started working on a specific application that will make it possible. We will also seek to make one unique e-mailing list of all participants in public procurement procedures, so that we can provide them with all relevant information, data on decisions we make, data on principled legal views, because our goal is not only to sanction, but also to teach and educate participants in public procurement procedures. The final point of this report concerns problems in the work of the Republic Commission. In 2013, in addition to these two reports, the Republic Commission also provided one specific information to the National Assembly, or the Committee on Finance, on the fact that the number of cases was increased, the number of applications submitted for the protection of rights was increased. More than 30% is this increase compared to the previous year and it is really difficult to handle within the deadlines prescribed by law, and in a situation where you have to prepare yourself for the exercise of all those powers that you have received from the new Public Procurement Act. There have been some delays in making decisions. We have provided the information to the National Assembly, but at the same time decisions have been taken to improve the awareness of the work of the Republic Commission, which includes the overtime of employees and working Saturdays. I think we made it through the previous year to achieve a certain satisfactory level of urgency. In the context of the problem, as the final points of these reports on the work of the Republic Commission, the Republic Commission also referred to certain provisions of the Public Procurement Act, analysing them and noting that, in the event of any changes, these provisions must be specifically analysed and proposed certain solutions, due to the possible improvement of the public procurement system. I'd like so much in this part of presenting the report. Of course I'm ready to answer all your questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3261	Thank you, too. Dear People's MPs, you have received the resignation of MP Sanja Tucakovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the case under Article 88(2) has taken place. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs and proposes that the National Assembly within the meaning of Articles 88, 88 and 4 of the same law determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with this, and pursuant to Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office ended, before the time for which it was elected to MP Sanja Tucakovic on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. Veroljub Arsic, chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3262	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since the adoption, or adoption of the Law on Public Procurement, this is the first time that the National Assembly under the new law can discuss the work of an independent state body appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Committee on Finance and which, in its jurisdiction, is to act by appeal when it comes to the Public Procurement Act. I can say that for the first time since the introduction of public procurement in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, a real public competition has been held in which members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights have been elected in public procurement procedures. It was not like before that those parties who exercised power came from the lists of members of the commission, proposed to the Finance Committee, thanks to the majority they had, voted as a proposal to the Committee on Finance and addressed it to the National Assembly. That's how it was before. Now a real two-part competition has been held. The first part is related to the written examination of the members of the commission, which was prepared by various organisations involved in the process of adopting the Public Procurement Act, that just ten minutes before the start of the written examination, were determined which issues they would be, and the members of the committees that conducted the contest also participated, each asked their own questions and those who supported the government of the Republic of Serbia and those who were opposition. None of us who participated in the procedure knew what questions would be on the written test. Those who met the conditions foreseen by the written test then had a kind of interview with the board members who conducted the contest. That's where we saw in fact how it shouldn't be done and how it shouldn't be done by a commission that provides protection in the application of the Public Procurement Act. The Commission before this, worked by the president of the commission always reporting on each case being conducted, and the advisers prepared reports without signing and refering the commission to a decision. There was no audio record, no video, no record in the form of stenographic notes, no other members of the commission had a chance to see the subject before the session they were deciding on. Then they would put a pile of paper in front of them, suggest conclusions and say, "If anyone is interested, they can see what is written in the case." I would like to see these members of the commission, except that they are supermen, that within five minutes they can get to know what's in the case and be made clear by the conclusions proposed by some consultant working at the Public Procurement Commission. That is why we had as a consequence legal inconsistencies in the application of the Public Procurement Act, where the same legal thing happened on the same grounds, the same Commission twice decides differently or repeatedly decides differently. This was the situation when the previous Public Procurement Act was in force. I wouldn't even want to talk about the deadlines that the Commission was working on. Due to the laziness of the members of the Commission, the full lack of control by both the competent committee and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, means the total absence of control has often been required to deliver several times one piece of paper to the Commission which has already been delivered several times, in order to delay the decision-making process for another 30 days. There were those who applied the Public Procurement Act in the agreements, so both the contracting authorities and the bidders, that as long as they did not get a certain offerer's job, that public procurement must be shot down. We had a situation that one public procurement procedure lasted two and three years. Maybe someone says it's not the subject of this commission's work. Yes, because this commission inherited a large number of such items that it had to comply with the old Public Procurement Act. I know that now many fellow MPs who do not support this law will find a million reasons for not being good, and I will tell you only one who is not good, but they are not good, those who have been rich, illegally earning money, are not good for criminals who have participated in public procurement procedures, who have swallowed huge funds from Serbian citizens. This is the biggest problem in applying the Public Procurement Act. You can talk about everything, and you can talk about complex procedures, and what's more transparent than anyone who wants to participate in the procurement process knows which client from his plan, what kind of purchases he has, and are some of these purchases the subject of his activity? In order not to be so great, I think the Commission has had some problems in its initial part. In the first place, one large number of items inherited from the previous Commission for the Protection of Public Procurement. As a result, it was not possible to reach that 30-day deadline for the Commission to act on a decision-making basis. I know that many members of the Commission have also worked outside the working hours to make up for the deadlines made by the previous Commission, and when they heard that they would not be chosen, they deliberately obstructed decision-making to show the new Commission as inefficient. During that time, they received what they paid very well. There are now among these members of the Commission of those who have been in the previous, but have not been embarrassed in the previous, and have earned their work so far on the basis of these reports to be future members of the Commission. For the first time, an institute has been introduced in the Public Procurement Act that the responsible Committee on Finance Affairs can invite a member of the Commission acting in the public procurement procedures for each individual case to be explained why he does not act, what problems he has in the case and to verify the legality of the decisions proposed by the Commission for the protection of the rights in public procurement proceedings. In further work, the Commission should also be able to cope with the fact that as much as possible to reduce, i.e. to introduce that deadline in accordance with the procedure, but in one part, I think that the Commission should use all the instruments that have been given the law, so that we do not have to say that because of one, I cannot say a flaw, but because of one right to abuse the law, which is an unwarranted complaint to stop the procurement process and that the appeal is filed countlessly, although the procedure was in accordance with the law, so that all other bidders would be expelled and the remaining one who should be given the job. I think that the Commission should use the ban mechanism for the application for protection of rights. If the Commission finds it not possible to do so, there are other ways to protect the procurement process from the so-called tender destroyers. Unfortunately, the law has come across resistance among all, and among those who are contracting authorities and those who offer offers for public procurement, which suggests that and how good a string exists between these two actions, a relationship that was not supposed to exist, a relationship based on friendship, agreement and money. Somehow it was that money that connected them all and made those friendships. The law is still not in full application because some orderers want to continue as usual. They still want, for example, to determine discriminatory factors in the offer. Those who are allowed are only allowed by law and cannot be otherwise. Unfortunately, a large number of bidders in such procedures will not notify the Commission of the rights in public procurement procedures precisely because it hopes to get some privileges for such a discriminatory offer in the future. I'm just going to give you one example, the closest I've ever met. The hospital in Požarevec announces an ad on public procurement for the purchase of food and washing of bed linen and laundry. The condition for you to participate in the procurement process is that whoever makes the offer has to work for at least two hospitals. It's not a discriminatory offer allowed by law? To make the matter worse, no one has sent a request or appeal to the Commission for the protection of rights in public procurement procedures. This may be one way to score on the quality of the offer, but it can't be a condition to make an offer in public procurement. It's just one little example. Some state authorities also wanted to avoid applying the Public Procurement Act. Remember only the famous affair over the purchase of medicines in pharmacy institutions last year, where the fund was blamed, and public procurement was to be conducted by the Apothecary Institute of Belgrade. It was the law, so the minister blamed himself, and it was both the Prime Minister and the entire government and the political parties. When we said - let's, okay, conduct public procurement in the negotiation process, to protect the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but to know that we will check under what conditions and how you have obtained medical equipment and medicines and to compare prices and conditions with those achieved by the Republic Health Fund, e, then they have shut up, then there is no problem. So -- let's see what prices were in 2012, so let's see what prices were made by applying the new law in 2013, they were even more silent. The law on public procurement has no complex procedures, no procedures that cannot be achieved. Its greatest advantage is that most of the procurement process is available to the public. It seems to me that some in Serbia, who criticise this law, are the biggest flaw in the law and we don't care what they criticise. This law can only experience changes to be even better, but those who participate in public procurement procedures, both from the contracting authorities and from the bidders, will have to accept the rules of the game that the state has made to protect its interest and the interest of the citizens, it seems to me individual, but I cannot help them, nor do I wish. The job of this Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures is that it also contributes to the implementation of a law. That is why it has been chosen, which is why the Finance Committee has decided to give the conclusion that the report is accepted, because it describes most of the problems and the results that really existed in the work of the Commission and we are always ready to talk about amendments to the law, additions, but not with interesting lobbys, not with those who would like the law to be tempered, so that they can continue their dirty work, but in the interest of making the law even better and making it even more complete. That is why the Finance Committee has reached a conclusion recommending the National Assembly to adopt a report on the work of the Commission on the protection of rights in public procurement procedures.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3263	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the people's messenger, Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3264	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 107, paragraphs 1 and 2. You have allowed Mr. Arsic to say certain things that neither he himself was allowed to do, nor should they be spoken in this assembly. He said the previous Public Procurement Act was criminals, people who are trying to gain some illegal benefit by bypassing the laws. Against the law were MPs who were elected by the votes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not criminals, and those MPs who knew then that it was a lie that thanks to the new law would be saved from 700m to a billion euros, I do not know how long the figure in the law's announcements went and the same MPs who asked several times afterwards where the works of the savings were being saved from the law. That's one thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3265	Please, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's talk about that problem. Clear is the first part, and the second part of your exposure is the replica. Please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3266	I will no longer do so unless you also allow the MPs of the SNS to make accusations against other MPs in their speeches, insult them and insult the dignity of this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3267	I owe you an answer. That's not how I experienced it. I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. It is your right to ask that in the day of the vote we make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Is that what you want? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. Thank you. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3268	Articles 102 and 103. I don't want what I didn't say to get shoved in my mouth, especially when advertising my Rules of Procedure. I have just given recognition to MPs who did not support the previous government and who participated in the selection process of members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. I don't know why someone keeps identifying him as a criminal when we haven't told him a single word about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3269	Mr. Arsic, please, you have so much opportunity to say what you just said, first of all, because you are also an authorised representative. Then please don't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, at least I don't see it. Do you want us to declare this in the voting day? (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: No. Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3270	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Arsic has advertised Article 102. Rules of Procedure. Article 102 reads - when all points of the agenda are considered and decided on, the National Assembly president concludes the session of the National Assembly. Mr. Arsic, please focus. Don't argue like this. He's devising our conversation with that. Since you are unable to quote a member of the Rules of Procedure who you consider to have been injured... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3271	I'm not gonna let that kind of relationship happen. I will not allow the abuse of my Rules of Procedure. Do not address the MP directly. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3272	I'm advertising a breach of Article 103. The People's MP is obliged to point out which member in the event of a breach of the Rules of Procedure's mind. The former speaker didn't do it, and it was your turn to warn her when she's holding a letter and salty mind to someone else. It was her turn, when she called on the Rules of Procedure, to really do so and to call on a member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3273	Mr. Djukanovic, I think I reacted in time. You're right. Maybe I didn't insist on which member she called. You have the right to say if you want us to make a statement on this in the voting day. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: No. Thank you. We move to debate by authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. The first word has a National MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3274	Thank you. Dear representatives of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, it is a pity that we are in some way disrupting this interesting debate of both the replica and the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, but I think I will deal with what is on the agenda today, which is two reporting periods, i.e. two reports on the work of the just mentioned Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights. Reports as reports, both for the first reporting period and for the second reporting period are more comprehensive, more numerous, written on a large number of sides and contain a large number of information. When I say a large number of information, it is clear that all the public procurement carried out, all the contracting authorities in the procurement procedures, applicants, the subject matter of estimated value, as well as decisions, i.e. the law contained all relevant information on the manner in which the Republic Commission decided exactly on the protection of rights. What is doubtless is that both of these reports cannot be observed beyond the existing, currently valid, Public Procurement Act, so, as you yourself mentioned, so I will also try to analyse these two reports and what is in them precisely in the context of the applicable Public Procurement Act. In fact, this Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures is a state branch that protects the rights of the applicant, which protects the rights of the applicant, but is also a state body that protects the interests of concluding a specific public procurement contract for all those who consider that for some reasons these rights are threatened, precisely in those proceedings. In addition to the initial protection of the rights of the bidder, the Republic Commission, as I have pointed out, protects the interest of the state. Therefore, it protects the interest of the state itself, so that the right to apply for the protection of rights is also the State Auditing Institution, there is the Public Procurement Administration, there is also a citizen supervisor, which is also mentioned in these reports. Of course, currently, i.e. the new Public Procurement Act, which is currently in force today, has been significantly extended to the Commission's competences, primarily in eight new procedures, and in particular, at least in person to me coming from the sphere of someone who is engaged, who, by applying it, belongs to the judiciary, are particularly isolated from the tasks that have been assigned, so to speak, as new competences, as extended powers of the Commission. It is precisely the conduct of a first-degree infringement procedure, the annulment of public procurement contracts, the filing of claims for the determination of the invalidity of the contract and the payment of fines. There are, of course, other jobs that have been allocated to the Commission in new law, as new competences, which only contributes to the fact that this law on procurement, which this National Assembly has discussed and ultimately adopted and voted for, significantly and largely, in order to strengthen the lists and to specify the already existing competences which the Republic Commission has originally and primarily exercised. What is particularly significant is, above all, the fact that the affairs which were in the jurisdiction of the courts of general jurisdiction, but also which were in the jurisdiction of the criminal courts, are now actually the original powers of the Republic Commission. First of all, I'm thinking about the business of revoking public procurement contracts and conducting a first-degree infringement procedure. Also, the new Public Procurement Act has been regulated by the way the Republic Commission works. What certainly represents a newspaper compared to the previous applicable Public Procurement Act is what you mentioned in your presentation, the fact that decisions are just being made in the larger ones as opposed to the solutions provided for by the previous Public Procurement Act, which led to the majority of the votes at the sessions attended by most of the members of the Republic Commission. I think it is important in this place to note that the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights for its work is the responsibility of the National Assembly. I think that's very good, that's how the National Assembly control mechanism is strengthened. I think that's how it should be, and that strengthening the supervision mechanism of the National Assembly right over the work of the Republic Commission, perhaps in some future period, should even be achieved to a greater extent, of course, through, say, amendments and additions to the law, but I'll talk about it later. Of course, I am pleased that this is the first time that reports have been discussed, regardless of the reporting periods, I will speak the Republic Commission's report for the first time since the adoption of a new, or valid Public Procurement Act. What is derived from both these six-month reports of the Republic Commission is what can be seen, through such a tax and decadent listing, that public procurement procedures are, to the greatest extent possible, annulled, in part or in general, if both reports are carefully read, while in a small number, they have been suspended or even in a small number, to be noted, that requests for the protection of the rights of the tenderers have been rejected. An important Law on Public Procurement, as I have already noted, established this parliamentary control over the work of the Republic Commission. The report before us contains a large number of data, but they themselves provide each of the MPs with an insight into the information, which all these public procurement procedures have been carried out, in what way, not to list all that I have previously mentioned. In order to further implement this parliamentary control, the Assembly Committee of the National Assembly shall have the power to call on each member of the Council of the Republic Commission, which has decided in a specific case, to orally explain the position of the Commission on the specific matter and the decision made, which certainly indicates one greater transparency in the work of the Republic Commission, because I believe that the transparency of the Republic Commission is being looked at through the new opportunities given to it in its participation in the resolution committees of the National Assembly, by not ignoring what has already been said, and that the publication of the decision of the Republic Commission is being made on the website, on the public procurement portal. What I also think should be pointed out on this occasion, and this is about reports and the Republic Commission itself, and it is in line with the applicable Public Procurement Act, is this important paper that the applicable law applies to the protection of the rights of the tenderer to the Republic Commission and hands it over to the contracting authority, because unlike the previous one, under which the claim for protection of the right was submitted to the contracting authority, and the procedure continues before the Republic Commission only on the basis of the applicant’s statement of the request to continue the procedure. I believe that such a solution was bad, that such a solution had to be changed by this existing law because the orderer as the first degree of decision had lost the powers he had so far. For example, if someone has filed a claim for the protection of rights, let's say, to the Public Procurement Agency or if that same request has been filed by the City Administration of Belgrade, now, unlike the solution provided for by the previous law, it cannot be rejected if it is considered unfounded by that request and the full documentation is submitted to the Republic Commission for further decision and the contracting authority is hereby authorised to examine the existence of procedural assumptions and to possibly adopt the request. Of course, these reports, which are ahead of us, in both of these reporting periods, also showed a tabular picture of how to solve, or how many rights protection proposals were adopted in public procurement procedures. That irregularities when it comes to public procurement procedures... I can say that until recently, these irregularities in procedures were, in a synonym for public procurement, common, and this is seen by the fact that, through the most frequent disregard for the provisions of sublegal acts and what is most important is the disregard for these provisions of sublegal acts in the production of competition documents, very poorly prepared competitive documentation that causes trouble for bidders when they are given the right offer. What should not be confused with the mind is one big widespread discrimination, as one general tendency that was present, and especially when it was common, and it was led to one being favored or marginalized by conditions, or criteria when it comes to technical specifications. Often, the goal was to reduce the number of potential bidders or the targeted indication of the bidder to make up the wrong, or simply lead them into a real delusion to make one wrong, or acceptable offer. One of the biggest problems in practice, and specifically regarding public procurement, was inappropriate, irresponsible, inappropriate, inappropriate, I don't know which expression to use, unfairly implementing the negotiation procedure that left the largest possible space for machinations, if you want to use the abuses that in the extreme instance are always suitable for the further development of corruption and for the doing of some of the criminal acts that fall into the head of corrupt criminal acts, and therefore all I mentioned in advance was a common problem, and it was the self-evident of the people who participated in the conduct of public procurement, in these proceedings, which, of course, resulted in incorrectly implemented public procurement procedures and that was the least said. The non-starting of infringement proceedings was caused by the fact that you did well and explained it in these reports, which is that during the reporting period it was the National Assembly that passed the Law on Infringements, which entered into force on 1 March 2014. Until then you were incapacitated, i.e. you were in your own kind of interregnem, and you couldn't initiate criminal proceedings because it would be pointless to do so under the provisions of the previous law that we knew would cease to apply, and the new Law on Infringements was in the procedure. What I'm interested in and that's one of my specific questions by reading these two reports or reporting periods, however you like, I'm curious about how much money savings were, if I may say, if there's one at all at the state level and since the start of the new Public Procurement Act? Furthermore, I know that at the very beginning of your work you were disabled both technically and organisationally and humanely to do in full scope all that was placed in your jurisdiction. With the new law you have quite a lot of jurisdiction, so I'm curious, that's my second question, so I'd like to get an answer, what has the Commission done so far with regard to strengthening human resources and not only human resources but also organisational ones? When you mention problems in the reports that you are facing during your work, you say in one of the reports that the active legitimacy for the application for protection of rights is too wide, and as such, because it is too wide, it can have an unwarranted launch of a large number of procedures for the protection of rights, as well as a delay in the implementation of public procurement procedures, and I am also interested in this matter – will you just take over something and when you talk about all those reasons that may in some way justify perhaps the adoption of new amendments and addition of the Public Procurement Act, did you, in particular, in this regard, have some legal changes in order to do your job? My question is when you talk about the problems of obtaining additional documentation and all of the above, as well as the set deadlines, the inability to act within the deadlines for applicants to protect the rights and complaints to the conclusion of the client, regardless of whether the documentation on the contested procurement procedure is complete or incomplete, is – do you already have the view that changes and additions to the applicable Public Procurement Act are necessary within a certain period of time? When we talk about international co-operation, we see from both reports that you have achieved international co-operation, such as the OSCE, the JNDP, I will take this opportunity and say that I hope that you will achieve co-operation with the National Section of the GOPAC, which is an unparliamentary body, but has been formed in the past, and which has done a lot to prevent and combat corruption, and since we have shared workshops with other independent regulatory bodies, I hope that in some future we will have workshops with you too. It would also mean your opinion to give us some concrete answers to our specific questions. When we look at the statistics, when we look at these reports, a detailed review of the items received, the cases solved, then it is observed that a far greater number of procedures are initiated by a request for protection of rights, followed by an appeal to the conclusion of the client, while the percentage of the cases received is higher than the number of cases currently in force by applying the Public Procurement Act. Since I have little time, as regards this first report in the period from 1 April to 30 June 2014, in addition to the details contained in the report itself, it is very important to make a public statement, which concerns decisions of the Administrative Court and of the High Court in relation to decisions of the Republic Commission and here it is stated that of the 26 decisions taken in administrative disputes, initiated by the complaint of the Republic Commission, the court rejected 20 lawsuits, two cases were dismissed, three brought on, one proceedings suspended, and I believe that this is satisfactory, first of all bearing in mind the amount of cases which the Commission is concerned. Since my time is running out, in the second reporting period from 1.7 to 31.12, it is said in the period under the law that the Commission has introduced a new organisational structure and that is what started in the period. It seems to me that the end is slowly coming to an end. That's how these new organisational units were formed. First of all, I am referring to the Implementation Sector for the Special Authorisations of the Department of Case Management, Analysis, Public Relations, Co-operation with State Authorities and Other Institutions, Task Force in the process of telling fines, etc. Finally, what I want to say, and I will end this exhibition, is that it is seen, since this Commission has in its original competences a very large and very large circle of affairs, but it also shows the efforts of the Republic Commission to protect the rights in the procedures for the protection of rights, to carry out in the best possible way the necessary changes imposed on it by the applicable Public Procurement Act, which I personally think must be changed in certain parts, and for which you mention. Unfortunately, as in any transition, I think there was a little delay in the work here, as indicated. It is not your fault, but I certainly believe that, through the flow of time and through better practice, labour problems will be reduced to the least possible extent and to the very end, of course, the mechanisms of control over the work of the Republic Commission will be given importance, especially when it comes to the right of the same Commission to take principled legal views. Since I've wasted my time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3275	Thank you, Miss Batic. The word has the authorised representative of the SPS Mr Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3276	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, I'm a little sorry to hear the marble through the O.R., perhaps something nice and useful to hear and learn, but, well. Everyone has the right to do what they think. But let's at least hear from each other and hear from both the colleague and the president of the commission and the authorising officer, i.e. A reporter. As for the SPS parliamentary group, I must say that we are proud to point out that we participated in the adoption of the new Public Procurement Act, that we were active and when the draft was proposed and that 90% of our objections were then accepted. We participated actively in the debate, and some amendments were further improved by the Public Procurement Act, as well as later, in the Working Group which implemented the competition and the choice of issues. I can only say that I would like to continue this way in the future and that this model that we have applied, when it was a choice and a competition to elect members of the Commission, to continue with all independent regulatory bodies. Because there's no favoring anyone, that's the principle. But if it hadn't been for that, we would have had a series of objections today to select the members of the Commission. What I must say, and also on the Committee, I said, we as a parliamentary group give full support to the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, and I think we all need to help her become a credible and independent body. It's not easy, it's new law. There's been a lot of pressure. There have been attempts to show to the public that the law is bad, inapplicable, artificial drug shortages and many other things have been caused, etc. But in that field we have to endure. For all these reasons, it is necessary to provide adequate conditions for both the Republic Commission and the Public Procurement Administration and the DRI. They must have their own space, they must not be dissociated. They are doomed to each other and must coordinate in their activities. This is often imposed on all the round tables on which we participate and organised by the OSCE. As an independent regulatory body, the Republic Commission plays a large control role in the procurement process. Its activities, what citizens are primarily interested in, are aimed at saving the funds of all taxpayers. For that reason, I repeat again that we all need to help them have credibility. It is in this composition, as we have already heard and we were able to see from the Report, formed on 1 April 2013. Reports submitted relate to periods, as the President of the Commission said, of 1. 07 to 31. 12, and before that it was decided by the old law. What's a major newspaper, someone knows and someone doesn't know, is: an increase in the number of members and work in councils. But, Mr President, I'm interested in how the Commission's day-to-day work is taking place and the success in solving cases, because this is seen in the report, the constant increase in the number of cases? Especially because they're bigger, so there aren't any different decisions. How do you even channel it so there won't be any double arches, how was it in the past? I didn't say he had it, but it's not easy. In addition, the jurisdiction of the Republic Commission has been extended. As regards all these special powers - the conduct of a first-degree infringement procedure for public procurement offences, the annulment of public procurement contracts and the filing of a suit for the determination of invalidity. There is also a fine in the law of prescribed cases. When it was the Public Procurement Act, there were polemics and proposals from individual parliamentary groups that these were too many responsibilities. Let's let time show whether it was too ambitious to give this kind of authority to a body like this. But I believe they'll gain their trust to justify it. Because there's a lot of responsibility on them. You stated in the report that 1,595 rights protection requests were submitted during 2013. It is only one of the initial acts that can be handed over to the Commission. I can conclude that this is the largest number of requirements for the protection of rights received during a calendar year. But if we look at what you said, it's a serious 38.66% increase compared to the same period in 2012. There's also that table in the report, which I don't think there's any need for us to show something special right now. What I am particularly interested in, Mr President, is in your report, which for all respects, you have admitted that you did not act within the legal deadlines: “In the period of one. 07 to 31. 12. The Commission did not act in the law provided for in the 295 cases established under the rights protection requirements in public procurement proceedings, 30 cases formed by appeal on the conclusion of the contracting authority, three cases formed after the declaration of continuation of the procedure, in seven cases formed at the request of compensation for expenses, in three cases formed under the proposal for recovery in the preceding situation, and in three cases formed for the purpose of acting under the decision of the Administrative Court. “ What do you do about it, and what is the current situation? I have to get to the bottom of this, you're going to say it best, but I have to realize that people know that this is still an initial phase in law enforcement, and in this sense this is a specific period and these decisions have special meaning, because there is a whole new practice in the application of the new Public Procurement Act, and we have to go towards applying new regulations consistently and it is equally important that the conduct of the Republic Commission is done. I'll continue with a few more questions. As I've already asked, what's bigger is how to control what's for example. The different councils don't make different decisions? I already said that. Also, the question that is very important, and that interests the citizens, is, how many decisions have been challenged before the Administrative Court? Although, I'm going to say how much, because it appears from the report, but the bottom line is to tell me what mistakes the Republic Commission made here, what the Administrative Court has returned. I can commend you, because of the 112s launched before the Administrative Court 98, the Commission's decisions have been confirmed, and the applied charges are in 14 cases. I am very interested in what these Commission mistakes are. Maybe it doesn't apply to you, maybe there's something wrong with the law, but I'll talk about it later, so there's no misunderstanding. You said you published decisions regularly on the portal of public procurement and on the website of the Republic Commission. You said it was an up-to-date job, and it's for all the praises. I hope the administration, given the capacity it owns, can respect all this burden we've imposed on her with a new law. But now I'm interested in whether the bidders are calling for those decisions that you're making? In the report, you listed irregularities most often, and here you brought us some that you noticed in your work so far. I'm going to do it very briefly, maybe repeat what you said, but it's important that we get to the bottom of this, which is why I'm saying this. One of the irregularities is disregarding the provisions of sublegal acts when drawing up the competition documentation. Then, a vague and inaccurate content of competitive documentation that makes it impossible for bidders to prepare a correct, acceptable offer, or prevents subjectivity from being avoided. A technical specification has been defined in public procurement procedures in a way that is... This is all from the report, but I'm saying that it would come to the essence, to what I'm interested in, and to see how we're going to proceed, to lead this debate in that direction. It is unfair to conduct public procurement in a negotiating process which represents the most transparent type of procurement procedure, and an incorrect and unsettled expert assessment of the offer has been carried out. Would you please explain to me what caused these mistakes? You said disrespect for podakonic acts. These appear to be the only actions the client resorts to, of course, by justifying these ambiguities from sublegal acts. I think that leads to one confusion, and I think that's why you have an increase in the number of objects. I've got a list right here that you've published, and these are the orders that didn't deliver the requested documentation and reports. It's just inadmissible. You asked them to. As you've done in such cases, I'm not going to read about who this is, so it doesn't turn out to be, there are nine of them on this list. It is inconceivable for me that anyone can go deaf about the request of the Republic Commission, and here I said, you have full support of us as MPs and the Finance Committee, which is your resolution board. Frequent remarks that we can hear in public, and in this area also refer to professional tender triggers. It's one way or another for some of the newspapers, but it exists. They use the legal right to appeal even when they are aware that they will not succeed in this protection process, but they influence the public procurement process. In this way they often "trade" and condition other participants in public procurement procedures and I think they are trying to negotiate with them, and that is one serious problem. I think they're known in public by those companies that deal exclusively with the application for protection of rights, and they practically live on it, and that's the part where, and I left it for the end as a problem, but I'm going to relate to this, I think there's a question of active legitimacy here. Could anyone, a baker from Belgrade, or from some city, be able, of course, by law, but what does he have to do with the public procurement conducted by the competition documentation, for example? for the remont ‘Hydro's Đerdap’. Whether this is logical and whether a correction should be made in the next period in this field. In the last part of the report, you proposed the introduction of an offerer's obligation to previously request clarification of the competition file as a legal precondition for the application for protection of rights in the stage before the deadline for submission of tenders, with an additional restriction that only one who has already disputed the competition's documentation can apply with a request for protection of rights. I think it's everyone's right, not this example of a baker, to be able to do it, but of course whoever's involved, yes, and after the procedure, to apply for protection, but I think we might be able to solve it by increasing the cab. That's not bad. Why do I say that? Because the report shows that more than half the requirements for adoption have been filed, which means that the bidders are right when they apply for protection of rights and that they have rightly indicated that the law has been violated. So, if we increased the fee, for God's sake, it would be a big idea for those who are making competitive documentation that is, to say the least, subjective. Special progress is according to the bidder, made in the field of small-value public procurement. This must be pointed out as a very important matter from the Public Procurement Act. This law allowed us to participate in the procedures of a wider circle of bidders. That when a small purchase is published on the portal, anyone who monitors the public procurement portal can participate. It used to be a practice, you know all three offers, and always one gets, and you push, which our people would say, while you will. He's spending budgets, people's money, and this is where we're going to apply the most unpopular measure, to cut wages. So the point is to strengthen the Public Procurement Act. The point is to strengthen the independent regulatory body. The point is to put order into public procurement. That's where we'll provide huge savings. We were then looking, not accepted then, so on round tables are very often, even in the European Commission there was a controversy now that our delegation was on screening, exactly the plan of public procurement. We then proposed an amendment, as a parliamentary group, that all public procurement plans be published on the public procurement portal. It is not accepted, and now on all round tables it is imposed as a question – which is why it is not so. I am proud to point out, I think you will come to ours very quickly, that when we change, I say, the law should be changed only in positive, I agree with the chairman of the board, that we should change it only after some technical obstacles, to improve it, to make its application easier, and not to liberalise, so that now someone here represents some centers of power, to enable them to do what they did again. No, I know that many people don't like it, and even now if I had a chance, if we had a chance, we'd add that decisions and contracts, sorry decisions are made public, but public procurement contracts are published, so we all see who's assigned the job, why would they hide it, there's no reason, and there's no plan you make at the beginning of the year, which is why we would hide it. So someone's favored who has a chance to get a public procurement plan, even those who are bound by their informers to publish plans they don't. We even have the trustee's opinion on the availability of information. So, as far as active ID's concerned, I've already said that. What I would point out at the very end is that in this year, a year and a half, progress has been made in the area of public procurement and, of course, it does not need to be stopped and to improve this system. To improve the working conditions of both the Republic Commission and other independent regulatory bodies. It is also necessary to carry out an analysis of the state and effects of the law so far with the organisation, which I am also on the board, and I think we have all agreed, of a public hearing on which the contracting authorities, bidders, regulatory bodies and all interested parties would appear, and to see what is to be crystallized there. Says one colleague, we'll open the Pandora's box, no need for a Pandora's box. What a panda's box, I mean, there's no reason to be afraid when we put that law aside from all the pressures it's been, of course we'll be able to make its changes and supplement in that direction that will only strengthen it. What I would say to point out as special, and here is what is in the European Commission's report on progress in the field of public procurement – the Republic Commission should build its credibility and a solid effect in implementing it by making sure that its decisions are implemented. In conclusion, good progress has been made in the area of public procurement, the new Public Procurement Act further agrees with the rules of law with communal law and improves public procurement procedures. It is necessary to ensure effective coordination of work between the main stakeholders. All in all, moderate progress has been made in line with public procurement. I hope that such a trend will continue in the future through the support of all the institutions of the business parliament and the resolution committee. We, however, believe in the SPS as an interest above all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3277	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. The word has a folk MP Dubravka Filipovski, an authorised representative of the NS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have the opportunity today to discuss the Commission's report on public procurement under the new law adopted on 1 April 2013. In this report, you list the subject matter of concrete reviews and the situation in which the Commission took action in the period since the start of the new Public Procurement Act, ending last year. This report is the Supervisory Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for Finance, and adopted and I absolutely believe that in the capacity to strengthen the control role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are obliged to consider this report, to analyse the recommendations you gave us, with one single goal to reduce in practice the reasons for inadequately, i.e., first of all, the difficult application of this law that arises in certain situations. In preparation for the debate on the report of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, I came to the data provided by the Director of the Public Procurement Administration Predrag Jovanovic, which was presented at the end of 2013, noting that the value of public procurement in the first nine months of 2013, from 1 April to 31 December 2013, is 178 billion dinars, which is 25.6 billion less than in the same period in 2012. This means that around 220m euros has been spent less in public procurement since the new Public Procurement Act was applied. Also, according to him, since the start of the new law, participation in the negotiation procedures has been 10%, and in 2012, for example, 28%, which means that this non-transparent and uncompetitive procedure has been reduced three times, while the open procedure is most desirable from 56% to 79%. Of course, these data encourage and show that the new Public Procurement Act has produced certain results in the first nine months of its application, but you also, in your report, see and point out the many irregularities that occur in the application of this law. You have carried out several, first of all, non-compliance with the provisions of sublegal acts in the production of competition documents, then inaccurate and unclear competition documentation in the application of public procurement procedures, then defining technical specifications in public procurement procedures in a way that is discriminatory, narrowing competition among bidders by setting additional conditions and nevertheless, forcing a negotiating procedure. My question to you is, how do you tighten the application of the law and how do you think to eliminate these irregularities you have brought forward? All of these comments by the Commission actually show that bad habits are hard to eradicate, that existing long-term relationships between traditional contracting authorities and bidders are based on already established schemes, and that we still have problems in the application of laws that, together with you and other authorities in the coming period, we have to solve. I support the staff strengthening of the commission in all sectors, and I hope that with professional and quality people, new people on the board will be more efficient and easier to solve the problems that I have identified. When I mention the appropriate application of the law, I believe that the commission is right when it finds that the application of the rules governing the area of public procurement is uniform, the basis of a stable and efficient public procurement system. I think it's perfectly fine and I agree with these four principles of law that you've taken according to the interpretation and application of Articles 75, 78, 85 and 153. Public procurement laws. Of course, greater transparency in the application of public procurement is important and needs to be sought to further increase it in the coming period. It is good that a practice of continuous communication is established on the Commission's relation to the protection of rights in public procurement procedures, the Public Procurement Administration and the DRI, in this way it is certain that you are achieving a co-ordination that is very important to each other regarding the adoption of unique legal views on certain issues. I think it is a very important and educational function of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and that it is invaluable. It is unrealistic and expected that the application of the law from the very beginning will run without difficulty, but I think that these data provided by the Director of Public Procurement are encouraging, that in the coming period we will remove them together and of course. As a member of Gopac, I expect that in the coming period we will establish co-operation and work together to remove these difficulties. I think you have the information, that you are familiar with the fact that the National Branch of Gopaca in Serbia was founded a year ago and that it is composed of members of all political parties and parliamentary clubs in the National Assembly of Serbia and that our primary goal is to establish control over the spending of public finances. Also, I would like to inform you that the MP NS in the voting day will support this report.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3279	Thank you, miss. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3280	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, today we have before us a proposal for a Commission report on the protection of rights in public procurement proceedings. The Democratic Party supports and encourages the strengthening of independent institutions in the Republic of Serbia, and we have shown this through a vote in reports and the Protectors of Citizens and Commissioners for the Protection of Equality, Commissioner for Public Information, the Anti-Corruption Agency. I know that professional people work in this institution, but I think it's very important to say that often in this room many of us get distracted, when it comes to the fact that these institutions start working from today, from yesterday, that everything starts from us, I think it's important to mention when they started to build, create independent institutions and adopt these laws and meanings and some important people, who have insisted exactly on encouraging the development and raising of the capacities of independent institutions in the Republic of Serbia. You will allow me to read a sentence issued by Dr Zoran Djindjic in 1998, some 16 years ago, when he spoke about Serbia's priorities, so reconciliation in the region, judicial reform and independent institutions, education, etc. So, at the very top of our priorities in 1998, and then we remind ourselves that the DS in government participation after 2000 adopted the first Public Procurement Act in 2002, and many have forgotten that. Of course, it was the beginning of work and incentives to develop these independent institutions that should systematically prevent a problem that exists not only in our country, but in all countries of the world, which is a problem of corruption and establish a system that will effectively fight corruption. It is mentioned here, and it seems to me that there is great sensitivity to this topic and possible criticism of the new law on public procurement. So the first law was passed in 2002. He wasn't perfect. It has been promoted through the formation of independent institutions as well as the one we are talking about today, but also through external institutions that I did not mention here, which is DRI, through external control of the public procurement system, primarily in major public systems, but also in other institutions of the state of Serbia. I think we should talk about imperfection and this law and I think it's a prerequisite to improve this law and try to come up with new solutions. Evidence of this will probably be some future period, when there will be proposals to amend or supplement this current law. A key pre-election message or offer in 2012 of the current coalition was in economic terms the adoption of a new law on public procurement, which will provide savings of some 700m euros and the Office for Quick Answers. There's no office, but we have a new law on public procurement, here, after two years. If it is estimated, and you will correct me because you have far more precise data and I think it would be important for all of us MPs to hear this precise information, I think that in Serbia, through the public procurement process, about three billion euros in purchases have been realised, at least in recent years. I don't know what it's like for 2013. When we analyse any savings through the new law on public procurement and realisation under the new law on public procurement, it is important to know the percentage of the realisation of planned purchases. If three billion euros are planned at annual level in 2013, and this includes procurement and ministries, procurement of public systems, procurement of schools, local self-government, public enterprises at local and central level, and if we have a total realisation, and we can, as we come from different institutions, see what the realisation of planned procurement is, if that is a total of three billion and if we have a 70% realisation, it means that 30% is not realised, meaning that it is one billion euros of planned funds through a public procurement system less in the course of the economy, in the course of service activities, and I think it opens up a very crucial issue for all of us. True, it is necessary to establish, in principle, two-stage control under the Public Procurement Act, through the protection of the rights of the bidder and the prevention of corruption within the system implementing the Public Procurement Act, by tightening possible abuses and corruption, but on the other hand, and to analyse what this means in real life. I think this report is just giving us a chance, and I am convinced that, together with the relevant ministries, the Commission's people have analyzed this very situation in order to avoid the problems that anyone who is working with and under the previous Public Procurement Act, but also in this new Public Procurement Act, and I think that this is clearly seen from this report. Here, let's talk about the specific data we received in the report. For me, it was the most interesting part of the realisation report under the old law, but also the new part. Here, you can follow, if anyone is interested, on page 236 – orderers who did not follow the instructions of the Republic Commission and did not remove irregularities. So this is a list of those institutions that have not responded to the findings and objections of this institution, which we all agree should be supported and its capacity should be strengthened. It is unthinkable for me that people at the head of these institutions do not respect such a law. They deserve to be listed here: "Torak", Belgrade, I will not read about which supplies are being made, RFZO, once, RFZO, twice, RFZO, for the third time, Ministry of Culture and Information. Some of these purchases are materials for haemodialysis, dialysis material - the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and the Ministry of Culture and Information - the creation and realization of information campaigns and stage production "Milanski edict". These are examples that can warn all of us in one very serious and broad way. In what way did we react, how did the Government react, how did the current political coalition react to the fact that people in these institutions, who were elected precisely by this current call, do not respond and do not respond to an important institution's demands, and we all advocate and pride ourselves on the new Public Procurement Act? So they obviously did not respect all the points of the new Public Procurement Act, and they did not even respond to the Commission's request for protection of rights. Does this mean that we recognize that this law is not perfect and that it is necessary to see through the eyes of those who may have had to make such decisions, and that is the question of analysis? Since it is very often mentioned exactly the Republic Health Insurance Fund and we mention material for haemodialysis and dialysis, many of you are doctors, working at clinical centres and know what the problem is with people who run these clinical centres. We can now talk or stare at these problems and challenges, but if these people fail to realise the public procurement that has been ordered within six months or a year after the elaborate system in which someone can consciously knock out these public procurements, they will face a serious dilemma, which is whether to obtain the necessary medications for people to survive, those who come to clinical centres to heal and seek salvation for themselves or their loved ones or simply act in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, stick to each member and say that the Law on Public Procurement has fallen. We don't have the basic means of treating people in Serbia and I don't want to risk getting what's necessary, and there's every single one of them in one huge human dilemma, and that's the question of whether he's ready to respond today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, because he didn't respect the Public Procurement Act, and here's the list here, and each of us can see that list or will act on what his doctor's and human ethics are saying, and that's to try to do with its own risk, get the necessary material and try to reduce those lines that we often criticise. We say, checks and waiting lists are scheduled for 2020 or 2021 because there is no material. How are we gonna cut those lines and waits unless we have enough material to do all this work? It is a real life, and we must be aware of this, all of us, first of all, that by following what is happening in real life, we realize that this law is not ideal and that we have the right to speak critically about some of the solutions in that law in a real and well-intentioned way. It's one of the examples in this section of the report. They deserve these orders that did not follow the direction of the Republic Commission and did not remove irregularities, which mentions "Our joy, Smederevo", and is mentioned again by the Republic Health Insurance Fund most often. The Directorate for Construction, Urbanism and Building Land Smederevo is mentioned for the second time, and then the Directorate for Construction, Urbanism and Building Land Smederevo for the third time, the regular maintenance of local roads, we talked about it yesterday. It may be a minor problem to read all those who have received the Commission's remarks on the protection of rights. Much greater is the problem of those who have received objections, but they did not want to answer those remarks. These are the institutions you can influence, because you know who runs the Smederevo municipality and who runs the Republic Fund and who runs the Clinical Center in Belgrade. Part of the culture, not only in health care and not only in local self-government, but also this interesting topic of the Ministry of Culture and Information, at the time of Minister Petkovic, to be clear, marking the anniversary of the Milan edict in Nis, the creation and realization of informative-relamic campaigns and stage production of the Milan edict. You know, there's been a lot of talk about the way these services were supplied, about the amount of money spent on that kind of need, you know who was involved in the whole process. This was necessary and certainly important for both the city of Nis and all Serbia, but this is devastating, that there is no response to the Commission's remarks and request. This is an opportunity to invite all these institutions to provide answers to these questions, and at the end of this first part of my presentation, I will repeat the question to Mr Varinac – is there any precise information about the percentage of the planned purchases in the Republic of Serbia for 2013, relative to the plan and percentage of the realisation, because it will tell us more precisely about this information, did we save something through the realisation under the new Public Procurement Act, or did we fail to obtain the necessary goods, materials for the necessary treatment, so we reduced the quality and that kind of service? I think it is important for all of us, so that as responsible people, we can look into that truth in the eyes, in real life and make it easier for all people who fight in their own way to maintain institutions that lead and, above all, fight for the health of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3281	I thank you, Mr. Kiriq. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3282	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, respected Commission representatives, distinguished counterpart Arsic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have very important reports on the realisation of public procurement in the previous period. In some ways, they show the effects of the Law on Public Procurement. The proposal's goal, then Serbian Progressive Party MPs, was to increase efficiency and reduce public procurement costs, they said. Today, a year and a half or more than the adoption of this law, unfortunately, we see that these promised savings have not been made, and I will show from the example that the efficiency of public procurement is seriously compromised. A colleague, Ciric, spoke about public procurement in health care. This is the most classic and most drastic example of inefficient public procurement, as the realisation of these public procurements depends on the lives of Serbian citizens, often children. Minister Prof. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who sits here today as a national MP, pointed to problems with public procurement in the previous period, relating to health care. We talked about it, but there was never, of course, an answer to that, because it was the Ministry of Finance, not its ministry, or the Commission and the Public Procurement Administration. I was asking a question – why is the repair of devices in children's hospitals, magnetic resonances and other appliances waiting for four or five months? I cited the example of a children’s hospital in Novi Sad, or the Institute for the Protection of Children and Youth in Novi Sad. Namely, to appeal to one of the bidders, the complaint went to the Public Procurement Commission and there he waited for order with all other requirements, therefore, and less important and more important, and the children in Novi Sad were waiting for that apparatus to be repaired. A similar situation is in other health institutions in Vojvodina and Serbia. So this law created conditions for a narrow throat that made it impossible for the public procurement process to end. To be clear, we have two kinds of abuses in the public procurement process. One type of abuse refers to the corruption of those who obtain and other types of corruption potential stems from those who are potential bidders. We all know well that there are so-called professional bidders, whose only job is to make public calls and to blackmail other bidders with complaints, or complaints from the Public Procurement Commission if they do not make a certain profit, that they will, of course, initiate a procedure that will go on forever because of the ineffectiveness of the Commission that I have pointed out and which we pointed out when the public debate was, that is, when we talked about the Public Procurement Act. We said that the Commission will not be able to solve all these cases, and we do not have in these reports today exactly how long the proceedings are in progress, how many procedures are currently under way, and how many months they are going on, and we don't really know the real effects of this Public Procurement Act in terms of efficiency, and frankly, I didn't expect to have it in terms of any more significant savings that will be clear. This is where Mr. Veroljub Arsic, my esteemed SNS colleague, spoke today. I've had his presentation here since 24 December 2012, with all the pictures, smiling Mr. Arsic, and it's undeniable that this is your speech from a year and six months ago. You spoke at the time as an authorised representative of the SNS, as the legislator of this law. I'll tell you what you said then and what it is to all of what you said at the time, that it is not that we are unobstructive, "Transparency of Serbia" in its 2012 report. You said then, when you were talking about the need to pass this law – so far we have had experience that because of poor control one part of the budget spending is not treated at all through public procurement; if the law is not respected, we also have those elements that can be corrupt and I can say, even criminal nature. In that sense, the "Transparency of Serbia" in its report says – The Public Procurement Administration has limited capacity, saying that it has fulfilled the task on the regulatory plan, so it has passed some sublegal acts, but that in a supervisory context it was not done enough, and this should have been, according to what you, Mr Arsic, said, the main effect of the new Public Procurement Act, therefore, the supervision of the public procurement process. You said there was a so-called. confidential purchases, and most often from the field of defence and security, and you said then: "We have had a situation so far, and there have been a lot of abuses, that, besides weapons and military equipment, the subject of public procurement can be even toilet paper and cream bananas." You see, Mr. Arsic, in the meantime, nothing has changed in that area. When it comes to procurement from this area of defence and security, the January report Transparency of Serbia said, "the government's regulation that should help to regulate public procurement in the area of defence and security has not yet been adopted." So bananas can still be purchased as a means of arms. Furthermore, it is said "that the appointment of a citizen supervisor, carried out on the basis of a public procurement plan, did not exist for the contracting authority to deliver these plans, so there was no way to predict in which cases there would be an obligation to appoint a supervisor". So the supervisory function is also shown here as very, very disputable, i.e. it's controversial. I remind you, Mr Arsic, at that time, you said: "The contracting authorities are obliged to adopt an act that will bring the procurement process closer to them, especially the way public procurement is planned, the criteria, the correct way of determining the subject-matter of public procurement and the estimated value." So you were talking about public procurement plans that were envisaged under this Public Procurement Act as clearly specified, which will not be able to come out of these frameworks and which will be respected. Here's what the report says: "The pre-remended state system of public administration", which is probably not controversial to anyone, "and the absence of serious analyses and data on the number and responsibilities of agencies and other bodies, in addition, there is no list of contracting entities", still no list of customers is made, "then it is not possible to send out whether all those who had an obligation to deliver public procurement plans, which makes it difficult to control". So, Mr. Arsic, this desire of yours has been analized to have clear public procurement plans. I'm saying, we don't even have a list of orders yet. You mentioned the Civilian Supervisor's Institute, you were talking about the fact that the purchases of more than 700 million dinars will be supervised by the citizen's supervisor. Is that right? In one case, 700 million, and in the other case, a billion dinars. The new Civilian Oversight Institute, according to the Report, which oversees procurements of more than a billion dinars, has only been applied to several public procurements, but importantly their reports have not yet been discussed in the relevant assembly committees. So these reports that were made did not see the light of day, on the other hand, the citizen supervisor had in mind only a few public procurements over this amount. The supervisor’s problem is described in this report, which says: “The problem of the overseer is that there are not enough organisations, nor are there persons who meet the criteria, so that the law was written for another society and it was not in the beginning that it could be applied. ” Mr. Arsic, perhaps you personally had a good intention, I have no doubt of that good intention. However, the fact is that the law, it was even noticed yesterday by the minister, or vice-president of the government, who spoke about the borrowing of Serbia, and said that there are certain problems in the application of the Law on Public Procurement and that it sometimes hampers the realisation of public procurement in the area of infrastructure, and it is not disputed for anyone. However, we have not yet received a proposal to amend and supplement the Public Procurement Act, which would solve these bottlenecks, i.e. eliminate problems with these bottlenecks. I ask all of you together, of course, above all, the representatives of the Commission, what is the average duration of the decision-making period at the request of the offeror for the procedure, for the assessment, that is being launched before your agency? Which is why no medical means are excluded, is there no legal possibility, so you're going in some order that's been given in advance, dated? Do you have enough capacity to fit the legal deadlines to resolve these procedures that come to you? Have you had a proposal to amend the Public Procurement Act or have you had an initiative to help you, in terms of expanding personnel and any other capacity, to solve these items faster? The fact is that the effects of savings under this Public Procurement Act can only be measured visiblely by the fact that some public procurements are not being completed and that those in a given year, the calendar year, are being transferred for the following year and that this year, this year and this year, the funds obtained so much and so much less, have been spent so much and so much less money, but it is not said anywhere that this is because the public procurement process is not finished. So that's what we have in the area of health where it's most critical. We also have in the area of construction, where procedures in municipalities, cities, provinces, and republican levels do not end because individual bidders submit complaints and it lasts for months. Many infrastructure facilities are important for the functioning of both municipalities and cities and provinces and the Republic are precisely for this reason. My question is for Mr. Arsic – will you soon, as you have submitted an initiative to pass this law, file an initiative for his amendment, press the fact that some of the provisions were bad, and will you admit that you have made a mistake and that you have done certain damage because of all this I was talking about? This means that some of the procedures have not been completed, that they have been delayed by ending these proceedings. Just please don't go back to the time that was before the law was passed. You passed that law to remove all the problems that existed in the previous law. In that sense, we had no objection when the law was passed. So we just pointed out the controversial provisions of that law that are inadmissible. Inapplicable because the Commission is a bottleneck. The commission must have more capacity to handle cases within the legal time limit, so that public procurement procedures are completed within the scheduled deadlines and that they do not last for months. In that sense, we expect your answers and in some way to admit guilt, in this sense, because we are always ready to admit guilt, and I hope you too, Mr. Arsic, and that in the coming period, these summer days, because we do not have any laws in the procedure, is it so, the government is slow to pass laws, there is no announced crowd in the Assembly, where sleeps, baths...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3283	Mr. Veselinović, speak to me as chairman. Veroljub Arsic is an authorised representative of the proposings, but he is also a national MP and you have no right to address him directly, but speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3284	I spoke to Mr. Arsic as an authorised representative, but thank you, Chairman. I'm bringing an end to my discussion. This report is a partial demonstration of reality after the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, but I would like to hear the answers that are not in these reports.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3285	I thank Mr. Veselinović. Veroljub Arsic's representative has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that someone is trying not to understand or want to understand what the basic objective of the Public Procurement Act is. The main objective of the Public Procurement Act is that those goods and services provided to state and other bodies should be paid as much as they really cost on the market. Not a penny more. Not a penny less. That's the purpose of one of those laws. In order not to say that the law is inadmissible, because one of the colleagues here said a few days ago when we pass one law, political will is needed, and often consensus. But in law enforcement there is neither political will nor consensus, the law is enforced. Whoever violated the Public Procurement Act, both present and previous, should answer. We don't even worry about SNS, we're not ashamed of it. When it comes to the Public Procurement Administration, I would just like to inform the National Assembly that the National Assembly has been considering the Public Procurement Administration Report. The Finance Committee did so at the previous session. I'd just like to tell you, since there have been a lot of stories here about how the current Public Procurement Act is not being applied, and even here in the Assembly. The seventh session of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending took place on 16 June 2014. The agenda from that session was this: Consideration of the report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures from 1 April to 30 June 2013, we are now discussing this; Consideration of the report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures from 1 July to 31 December 2013. The only state body that submits the report twice a year to the committee responsible and the National Assembly is the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. According to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, and thanks to these provisions today, we can discuss each and every one of them to criticise, praise, dispute, cite examples. I cannot justify anything from any party if it has violated the law and has not acted in accordance with the decisions of the competent national authorities. As far as I'm concerned, other state authorities who are in charge of this may continue to appear. The third item of the agenda is Consideration of the Public Procurement Administration Report on the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. Fourth point – Consideration of the Civilian Supervisor's Report on the procedure carried out to monitor public procurement, provide health services to hyperbaric oxegione therapy due to the capacity of health institutions etc. We worked with the Civilian Overseer. Further, defense procurement. Fifth Point – Review of the 2013 report on the procurement conducted in the field of defence and security of the Office for European Integration, which was delivered by the General Secretariat of the Government. As you can see, this has been discussed by the Finance Committee and I call on the representatives of the political parties present in this House to participate in the work of the Assembly committees for the sake of their notification. At how many meetings were representatives of other parties that do not support the RS government? Because you don't come, you don't participate in the work, and you don't know what's going on at those sessions. Any MP can come. A member of the board should because he has an obligation. That's why he was elected by the National Assembly to be a member of that committee. No members or deputies come. Something more important on your mind. And then let's criticise. So, we've solved the issue of Civilian Supervisor and Public Procurement in the area of defense and Public Procurement Administration. Let's get back to that law enforcement story. Unfortunately, I'm not saying that the previous laws were not a shift in something that regulated the use of state resources. The biggest problem was that the law was not implemented, that some interested groups of provisions of these laws were written and that no one had any consequence of not applying the Public Procurement Act, except that the state auditor had written him a criminal application, so we had to introduce the Institute of New Crime – abuse in public procurement procedures. That was so far out of the law. If it were, we wouldn't have this area in such a bad state. Due to the lack of treatment and poor legal solutions, there was a phenomenon in the ordinary right to disrespect the law, and this was done in many cases by both contracting authorities and bidders. I think that in the coming period together with the administration and the Commission, but unfortunately with both the competent prosecutors and the competent courts, we will learn some to respect the law. I will also ask Mr President of the Commission, Mr Varinc, to say which deadlines were in the Commission's handling of the rights protection proceedings until 30.06, the period when they inherited the old items, which were up to 31.12. In 1013, and I think you have the data for this year, at least for the first quarter, so you can see how much the Commission has cut the deadlines since it was founded. Since someone told me not to talk about the old law, I don't want to talk about the big and important difference between the first paper that comes in and the one that's officially deluded as given when an object under the previous law comes into consideration by the Commission that regulated the protection of rights in public procurement procedures. I would not do so because I know that in order to justify my impeccability and sloth, the Commission has repeatedly asked for one single piece of paper to get another 30 days to decide with each of these papers. It's law enforcement. As for the on-call destroyers of the tender, I also asked the Commission's representative whether a mechanism for the prohibition of abuse of rights requirements is used? If not used to a sufficient extent, then I'm willing to discuss the law's completion, to eliminate the tendering officers from the procurement process.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3287	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3288	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to point to a violation of article 106. The Rules of Procedure, which says the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Mr. Vesenovic spoke here earlier about how there was no traffic in the Assembly, how he felt there was no work in parliament, how the government was not sending laws and something like that. Mr Vesenovic, if you or the MPs of your parliamentary group feel that you are not working in this House because you are not interested in this point and other points, it does not mean that the Assembly does not work, it does not mean that the Assembly will not work at full capacity and during the summer break, and that does not mean that the Assembly will not work in the best interest of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3289	Thank you. The People's MP, Dr Janko Veselinović, came forward. On what grounds? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. ( b) Replic on whose exposure? (Janko Vesenović, from the post: Mr Arsic. You can't get a replica of Mr. Arsic's exposure. I didn't see anything in the presentation of an authorised representative that might allow you to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3290	He said I wasn't involved in the work of the board.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3291	You can only report to the presentation of the previous speaker who mentioned your name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3292	All right, Chairman, you've violated the Rules of Procedure, since I have no right to receive a word in connection with an infringement of the Rules of Procedure, but I will accept, I only need two minutes, one way or another. Anyway, I don't think a young colleague understood what I was talking about. I said there are no laws of the system that have been promised us from the realm of economy, finance, etc. There are no laws in this House that have not been put into practice. So the government passed no laws and handed it over to the Assembly for work. We hope that the next days of those laws will be. When it comes to what Mr. Arsic said, there are some things, of course, we didn't get an answer. I would just like to point out that New Democratic Party MPs -- Boris Tadic, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia regularly take part in committees and, as far as I know, never happened that a member or deputy member was on one of the boards. In that sense, that finding does not stand, even when it comes to our parliamentary group. On the other hand, we have not received answers to the fact that, for example, individual participants in the process, suppliers are deafening the Commission's mandate, such as the RFZO, which has two billion euros per year and which has serious resources, owned or founded by the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3293	Thank you. I apologize for wanting to give you my word as a representative of the opposition. We are now moving to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in a joint single search. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3294	The report we received is simply a historical list of all the order of what the Commission has done and I have no objections there, it is part of their work and there is nothing to add. I think it is much more important for the Serbian public what is with these public procurements and whether those old law, the new law, the amended law, and the work of this Commission have managed to become legal, whether they have been able to be such that the majority of Serbian citizens have no objections to the functioning of legal entities participating in this procurement process, either by suppliers, or by those offering. I think it's obvious that it hasn't been solved. The reduced public procurement in the period mentioned here cannot possibly be a good thing. It's good if there are reduced abuses, but to reduce the total number of public procurements as a result of the complicated public procurement process, it's not good for you. That's not good for many reasons. First, if these purchases made sense, and they should have been, then their failure to meet the services of these state-owned companies remained denied for those services. This means that the offer of what the state administration is doing, what public enterprises are doing to do something good to Serbian citizens, that this offer is weak and that the state is not doing its job properly. I think it's too complicated to solve this process of public procurement in the way it's solved by both old and new law. I accept completely that there have been catastrophic examples almost daily in the last ten years in this area, regardless of who was in power then, so something new must be done there, something that would completely change the atmosphere of public procurement in Serbia. I think it can be done by changing the law again, which will be completely open for public procurement, which all those who want to make public procurement on one site, whose making can cost several thousand euros, very cheaply, that there is one state website that will be called – public procurement.rs, on which absolutely, I know that there is such a site, but it still does not work in a way that is good, one similar site, all those who make public procurement have to hang their claim, its application, its tender or whatever it is called. So, only those who come across that website, who leave their data, who publicly show their offer, and most public procurement offers have to be made public, because otherwise they would not be called public, with clear criteria of getting a job in a concrete public procurement request and then being fully available to all citizens of Serbia, and to those who do purchases, and to those who offer purchases, and to those who have won a tender, but also to those who have lost, so that next time they can offer better conditions than they have offered this time. Of course, that control must exist, of course, that despite such a site, which would be completely open, there must be this Commission, there must also be a competent assembly body dealing with that area. Then we wouldn't have had what happened to us at the beginning of this year, and what you as a Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures noticed, because you made two solutions. One was made on January 16th, and the other on April 1st of this year, where it is apparent that the "Electro-price of Serbia" by taking down bids for its tender for the insurance of its equipment, installations and all that they have, has put state interests at risk by bringing down the tender, so that "Electro-price of Serbia" remains unsecured for this year, in the way it was necessary, and from the floods. Therefore, all the damage we have today at the "Electroprivrede Serbia" facilities will be without adequate compensation from insurance companies. I was told by the Prime Minister, when we asked questions, that some prime minister from 2012. I was inclined to believe that, but obviously that's not true. This is the fault of the government that has appointed the management of "Electroprivreda Srbija".
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3295	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The floor has a representative of the promoter, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3296	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully agree that the best protection when it comes to public procurement is the public, public participation in the procurement process. I've said that many times when the law was passed, when the law-making process was under way. Under the current law, every public contractor is required to create a public procurement plan, to deliver it to the Public Procurement Administration, on which a public procurement plan will be published. It must also be made in the public procurement catalogue law. So every public procurement, under the new law, must be on that unique state website. There was only one dispute – should we place dates when an ad will be called or not? We have come to the conclusion that no dates should be set because Serbia is a small market. They will probably agree very quickly that one bidder is doing a job in the thermal power plants in Kostolec, another bidder to work in thermal power plants in Obrenovac, so we decided that they would not be able to negotiate and not have so much trust in each other but to make quality offers, that the date when the ad will be called will not be in the process. As a result, the Law also provides for a provision that the Committee on Finance and the Control of Budgetary Expension at any time can call on the entire Commission, an individual Member of the Commission, to provide them with a report on decisions and solutions taken by the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures or to submit a report on the procedure which the Commission is conducting. I don't know what could be more transparent in the public procurement process? Our biggest problem in law enforcement is this string that exists between the bidders, between the contracting authorities and, you know, you don't believe, between the bidders and the bidders. No law can solve that at some speedy time, but I believe that the way this law is applied in future times, that these examples will be less and less and less. I agree that in some parts of the Public Procurement Act may be misused. I've said it many times, and now I'm going to say it again, it's being abused by on-call tender destroyers. They can't even be tender crashers anymore, because, if the correct tender documentation is correct, the procurement can't be cancelled by the commission, but simply suffer from unnecessary complaints to prevent or delay the start of public works. If it's necessary, we'll make for that part of the amendment and the addition of the law. There's a way to get in the way of that too, so let's see if there's any clean orders to write complaints or if he's gonna take out a pretty good package of money from his pocket to pay a tax when his appeal falls. There are other ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3297	I thank Mr. Arsic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Let the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3298	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I would like to point out that by adopting a new Law on Public Procurement, this topic has become less interesting than before. This shows that the extent of possible abuses in public procurement is far less than it was in the previous period. For this reason, of course I will support these reports, the first half of 2013 report and the second half of 2013. I hope that behind us, when officials used their positions and functions, i.e. public procurement, not for general purposes and not for general good, but for their own good, when public authorities and public procurement served as a starting point in the hunt for commissions, for fat fees and blue envelopes. I think that's the time behind us. I also think there's still abuse, but they've been reduced by a dozen times. Of course, I will support this report for a number of reasons, but I will take the opportunity to remind myself of some public procurement competitions and some public competitions that are no longer allowed to happen again, which happened in 2000 and that have taken away some huge money from the citizens of Serbia, which, at the state level, is at the level of the Republic, which is at the level of the province, which is at the level of the city, which is at the level of local self-government. Someone had a vision at the time, but about the officials I listed had a commission. It was no secret that some officials even called themselves "mystery 10%, Mr. 15%, Mr. 5%", and I will only remind myself of some of the infamous public procurement, public bidding or public tendering. I've talked here many times about a public competition that's been published for the Ustasha building. It's almost amazing that someone who was the federal government, who was the most responsible official, allowed the public competition to take place in 30 days without a competition commission. So, announce the competition and announce that the competition commission will implement the competition - and no competition commissions are available. It is named 45 days after the start of the competition, i.e. 15 days after the closing of the competition, the competition commission is educated. Then what were the public competitions? What kind of public competitions were they? What kind of public procurement was that? In the same case, we could see that due to the lack of a competition commission, that due to the lack of competition, one contract was reached by the Attorney General in federal consent, and the other contract was signed entirely. So, those who were supposed to protect public defence and the property of citizens, the property of the state, had one contract ahead of them, and the federal government that appointed a competition commission with a delay of 45 days after the contest simply allowed another contract to be signed. In that case, we have a third amazing thing -- to sign the contract in December, five, six months after the competition, and to sign a contract with a firm that didn't even participate in the competition. To sign this, say, on December 20th for a public competition, which was held in June with a firm that was founded only on December 17th, three days before the contract was signed, and five months after the competition was held. It's almost amazing to sign a non-prosecution contract, which wasn't approved by the D.A., with a firm that wasn't founded or existed while the contest was conducted. Today, the same ones who allowed it have a grudge against this law that has not completely removed irregularities, but has reduced them by at least ten times. So much less has been spent on money from the pockets, or from the Serbian budget, from local budgets, from the province budgets, from citizens' pockets. Far less spills out money for the same public procurement compared to that money that was being allocated earlier. What about the public competition for "Sartid"? What kind of public competition was that? Let's talk about the public competition that took place for Beopetrol with all the irregularities that happened there. Let's talk about what kind of public competition it is and whether public procurement involves issuing state agricultural land for hire for a certain number of years from one, three, five, up to 20 years. So, let's see how it is possible for two opposing companies to represent one person in this kind of public competition in such public competitions. What kind of bidding is that and what kind of public competition is that if you let two legal entities, mutually opposed to the same parcel, represent the same man. You have to ask him if you're making a bigger offer as firm A, now you're making a bigger offer as firm B. So it's almost impossible to carry out transparent, legal, unsullied, non-criminal public procurement in such a way. That's what happened in India. Of course the perpetrators weren't sanctioned. Of course, on land that has been sold tense years for agriculture they planted a vineyard that lasts up to 20, 30 years. This plot was the subject of denationalization. Now we're going to have to pay legal followers that parcel. What kind of public procurement was it when someone allowed, without the state's consent, to plant a vineyard on a plot that was state-owned and which, without consent, must not change its purpose, and consent should be issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, which they rented. To be even worse, for this lawlessness, the same ministry has allocated a subsidy of 41 million dinars, amounting to 525 000 euros. So the same ministry rewarded a violation of the law by the former prime minister. Therefore, it is almost impossible to list all major abuses in the public procurement process, public competitions that the state has done to harm citizens, and to the benefit of that narrow number of people. These people who were supposed to serve the state and serve the people, in public procurement, were pillaging for themselves and for the state and for the people instead of serving them. Today we have to listen to moral lectures from your area. So I ask how it is possible to rent agricultural land in November 2007, and to earn a wine planting premium for spring planting in 2007? How is it possible for the state to accept that spring is in November? So, pretty amazing things have happened, and that kind of procedure rewards 525 thousand euros. How is it possible that after three years, this plot that was thus leased, non-transparently, in such a way that all abuses were committed, on a plot that was kidnapped by nationalisation, and which was supposed to be subject to denationalisation, so we will not lose only those 525 000 euros that we have already lost, because the plot was estranged after three years. The one who received 525,000 euros, sold the vineyard through the company that received the subsidy. So he gets 525,000 euros and sells the vineyard, most likely gets some money, and legal followers who expect denationalisation are not compensated. By law now that these parcels are no longer available, because I don't know how they were sold and estranged, used subsidies, now that parcel must be paid by citizens. So, since it's physically gone, it can't go back to legal followers, since it's no longer agricultural land, since it's changed its purpose, since it's changed its owners now, that parcel now has to be paid out of the budget again. So someone has twice used the state for private purposes, and now the state will have to pay twice, once paid for the subsidy, and now they will have to legal followers of that nationalised property to pay for the land that was so alienated. So it's not clear to me whether we're going to open the process of researching the origins of property of various officials who ruled from 2000-2012 and perhaps from 1990 to 2000, who are friends with these others. Let's open up the issue of these transition masters, because once in this country, order should be introduced. The former regime wanted to introduce order by always asking for something to be done over the line, and through the link, and through the link and across the line, there's no order. I think, in the end, that as president of the People's Peasants' Party, I am committed to renting agricultural land, and I have already stated that this has been done before, and now it appears that land is being leased fictitiously, so that it is leased, etc., so that the law on agricultural land is changed, and that future public competitions for the lease of agricultural land in the state property are more transparent and understood as public procurement, so that the abuses that occur on the ground of farmers who are not in this hall, there are only two of us, and that they know which abuses are possible. I think in the end, I'll tell all those who used themselves in this way through public procurement and various other non-transparent ways in this transition, to take good care of what they're doing, because God is not looking at the full, but at the clean hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3299	Mr. Zivkovic, on what grounds? (National Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica? ) You have no right to a replica, I did not recognize anything that I could give you as a replica. I apologize, continue, the word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3300	Mr. Chairman, our parliamentary group is looking at these reports in light of the results of the law we have voted recently and in the context of all the problems faced in practical application, the Public Procurement Act. We have always tried to make sure that in our discussions on such important topics, first give an assessment of the situation, then point to the good side in applying legal solutions, point to problems and offer solutions, and so that's how my discussion will be today. It should not be forgotten that we have recently regulated this area. In 1990, it was a dark age in our history, in all things, as far as public procurement is concerned. Simply, the law on public procurement did not exist and the national law was in force, in all kinds of public procurement-treated jobs, "Half drinks, half Charcu gives." Only in spirit with the UN Declaration in the fight against corruption and bribery and in international transactions and numerous recommendations of the Council of Europe in September 2001, then the SRJ passed a law on the prevention of money laundering, and in 2002 the amendments to the Criminal Law of Serbia were introduced, where nine new crimes in the area of corruption were introduced, and in 2002 the Serbian Government established a Anti-Corruption Council which has a advisory body, and only in 2004 was adopted the first Law on Public Procurement and several anti-corruption laws, where the national anti-corruption strategy since 2005 proposed the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which was later established, and the law on the confiscation of property benefit acquired criminal acts, etc. That shows the state's desire to deal with corruption. However, we are absolutely witnessing that corruption is still present in our society largely. What did the new Public Procurement Act bring? He is, in any case, a step forward in relation to all previous solutions. We think he protected the interests of the state and the public interests to a large extent, not just the interests of the client and the bidder. I think it's a good thing that the infringement procedure is now in the first degree in front of the commission, it's a good thing that the Commission's misdemeanor solutions are most often confirmed in the second degree, it's a good thing the National Assembly is discussing these reports and pointing to problems. It is good that all the complaints about public procurement have been established, which, according to these objections, have been annulled public procurement, which has introduced a new crime of abuse in public procurement procedures. There are certain problems. The Commission points out something that we agree with, that deadlines should run from the day of completion of the documentation. The negotiation process that was the source of the greatest abuses is reduced, but it is obvious that it still exists and is the most favourable basis for corruption. We think that the abuse of the Institute of Appeal should also be eliminated by increasing the fees on the appeal. What some colleagues pointed to, professional bidders, that's something that's hard to fight with. In any case, it seems to us that we need to amend and supplement this law, to try to bring all these problems, which exist, down to as little as possible. Some of the reports say savings from the application of this law are about 220m euros, which is not a small savings. What we are aware of is that there are personnel organisational potentials in the work of the Commission and I think that the committee responsible should meet the Commission in that part, because without personnel and other necessary technical potentials, we certainly cannot expect the results we all want to see from the Commission. It's a good thing we chose the members of the commission this way for the first time. I'm the deputy board of directors, and I attended the interview with all the candidates, and I think it's the first time that members of the committee are chosen in a really transparent way. What's also the problem is that we don't have this list of orderlies, that we don't have a uniform application of laws and sublegal acts, that the additional conditions of the bidder are often the source of large abuses, that there are still problems with the negotiation procedures, that it's difficult to eradicate existing habits and already stalking schemes, that the citizen's supervisor is engaged in only a few cases, that there are obviously problems with a major infrastructure project due to the application of the Public Procurement Act as regards their deadlines, that there are problems in the supply of medicines and medical material and that perhaps some procedures are more complicated than necessary. That is why we think it is necessary to bring amendments and additions to the law, and then absolutely require universal education and an even more offensive media report on this kind of fight against corruption. We think it is really necessary to even the practice of law enforcement and sublegal acts, because we notice that it shows certain inequalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3301	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3302	Dear ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman, this area of public procurement is of first-class importance for the further functioning of our society. Why? Exactly because public procurement is very important in our action against corruption. Corruption is destroying our country. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no modernization of Serbia without breaking corruption. That this area of public procurement is of first-class importance also speaks of the fact that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, in his exhibition in the election of the new government of the Republic of Serbia, in April 2014, but on the side of seven of the 52 densely typed foreign exposures, stressed that one of the most significant steps of the new government of the Republic of Serbia was the fight against corruption, the Law on Public Procurement, which the SNS proposed in the 2012 election campaign, and adopted this high house on 29.12.2013, and its application began as of 1 April 2013. As you can see, SNS by system: said – done. It is now a matter of seeing the great savings of this law, in my view, on public procurement, as the prime minister said in the exposé, up to 100m euros, and indeed more savings. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to say what is good in the Republic Commission. First, it is good that the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the first time had the opportunity to receive a Report of the Republic Commission on the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures for nine months 2013. Secondly, it is good that the report of the Republic Commission is being considered in this high house. Third, it is good that the Republic Commission has seen certain problems in the process of its work. Fourthly, it is good that the Republic Commission is aware of all the problems identified in the procedure of applying the Public Procurement Act. Fifthly, it is good that the Republic Commission has proposed measures to improve both its work and the functioning of the Public Procurement Act in general. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress in particular that the main objective of the Republic Commission is to make decisions on matters properly and legally. It is therefore very important for the Republic Commission to act with care when deciding. Since the Public Procurement Act has introduced certain newspapers in relation to the previous law, the Republic Commission has been in a delicate situation because it has created a whole new practice in applying both material and procedural law. Therefore, the consistent application of new rules is equal to the conduct of the Republic Commission in the same situations of first-class importance for strengthening security in the area of public procurement, ladies and gentlemen. It is particularly good, ladies and gentlemen, that the Commission has had good co-operation with judicial authorities in its work, especially with the Judicial Academy. As you saw in the report, four requests for a misdemeanour were submitted by March 1st. There were 40 of them in total, and one of them was launched. Finally, it comes from the report, in addition to what the gentlemen have stated, that the most frequent irregularities in the work are to appear on the following elements - the netransparence of the procedure, incomplete competition documents and favouring the bidder. Indeed, the Commission has had only one pressure in its work, and that is a terrible pressure, and that is the pressure to work responsibly, as it has stated. In this respect, MPs should support this commission to continue to work responsibly and properly in their work. I invite you all, gentlemen Members of Parliament, to support these two reports of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures for nine months for 2013, with the proposal for the conclusions of the Finance Committee, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds, which is so zealously led by Mr Arsic, our Vice-President of the Assembly. This will at least make a little contribution to the modernisation of Serbia, which the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic and the Government in general, and the president of the state, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3303	I thank you, Mr. Atlagic. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3304	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable gentlemen from the Republic Commission, when reports of independent bodies come, I am personally a little reserved, because when you say independent bodies, you are not independent of the Assembly itself who chose you anyway, and you are submitting a report to us, so as someone who reads all the reports really decadently and in detail, of course, I always like to point to a certain criticism of something, or simply to explain things a little bit. But before I go on that, I must also commend you for really doing something. I'm going to vote for this report because, so far as it was about public procurement, we really have a situation now that someone's been doing something, and even 298, as I understand it, you've kind of suspended the proceedings, I think, that's to say, that's to say, that's to say, that's to say. to consider all irregularities, which has not been the case so far. I believe it's already made quite a savings for the country itself. What was really going on in public procurement until the new law was passed? First of all, whoever entered a public enterprise or any state-owned enterprise did not have to be public, and when he saw the purchases being done, he could only branch out. It was essentially one money out of state-owned companies in accounts of who knows whose, unorthodox and abroad these accounts were opening, where that money was being poured out. Most often this happened through the abuse of Article 24, 26 of the Old Public Procurement Act, I am talking about a negotiation procedure without publishing a public call. That was really scandalous, where you actually set up a job for someone your friend or friend or whoever you want, cousin, by saying -- well, that's the only firm that can do the job, no one else can do it. And then you take that, let's say, especially in marketing, it was really scandalous what was going on in that area, so you say -- this firm is the only one who can, based on some cultural or creative solution to offer really the best services, and when you look at, say, the balances of that company that was given such a job, you see that she has one employee, that maybe even at some point in the downs, that maybe she was just founded just to do that job. Then you really see that it was one of the worst setups and it's as clear as day that it was pure corruption. Also, the terrible abuses were when, say, you don't give someone a high value purchase, because then they go to a tender, and then you divide that high value purchase into three or four less value purchases, you make up a literally job for a company, and then you divide it into small-value purchases and again in the negotiation process, without publishing a public call, essentially give one firm four jobs through small-value purchases. These were terrible abuses, especially in the marketing sector, and that's how money has actually been pumped from a state or a public enterprise. I'm glad it's broken the good part of the new Public Procurement Act. The state has saved a lot of money here. Many companies have saved a significant amount of money. What I have to ask you, as the Republic Commission, who, again, was doing something, when I read your report, those irregularities you saw in that first three-month report, you essentially just copied for this second report, six-month report, and added something else. I wonder if you asked someone a question – why is it not correct? If you've already pointed out, and these are really amazing examples of what's going on in our public procurement, from someone not understanding how to do the paperwork, to how to fill it, to various other segments, and you've already sent it in the first report. You must have reported someone. How is it possible that no one has responded to that kind of repair? You've even added some of the new regrets you have, which is something that bothered me like this. Also, I'd hate to say that when we get your report, we're told that you haven't taken certain measures that you can normally take, especially in terms of supervision and then to be told, for example. that the Republic Commission did not carry out controls with the contracting authorities, as one of the laws envisaged by the mechanisms or, let's say, you only had four infringements. I'd like you to use as much of your ingenuity as you can to be stricter and more rigid in the application of the law itself and to strengthen control of the purchase itself. Finally, I'd like to ask you, since you've stated here how many procedures you've conducted, you've said 35 procedures, that you've actually refused to make a statement about them and that they haven't been conducted. I'm curious as to why, what was the most common reason for you to refuse to plead as a committee if someone made a particular remark? I understand everything where, say, you have procedural errors or where there's an eclectic example of breaking the law, so all right, you refuse, but there's definitely a plea there. You refuse a particular case, but why did you refuse to plead here? What are these items, if you can tell us, if you have them in front of you, to tell us which objects do they do it in? In any case, it's good that someone started working, protecting the state, because through public procurement, money was poured out from state and public enterprises and institutions on whose accounts, I wouldn't be surprised at some exotic islands and some tax havens, etc. There are various companies who know where they opened it. Jobs were being set up, tenders. This country has been well robbed through public procurement. It's a good thing this law was introduced, that it was brought in and that it was going to be applied like this. I believe that there is room for it to still be significantly improved, but you as the Republic Commission believe that in some future period, through these remarks you make, you will do and that the law itself will get its better form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3305	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3306	Mr. Chairman, the honourable representatives of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it is obvious that our dear colleagues from the opposition benches are not interested in this debate today, judging by the fact that they are empty benches, but my God, it speaks of them. Today is a very important part of the agenda. It is a report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. I would like to thank the representatives of this institution for the exhaustive report they delivered to us, but I would also like to point out the importance of the Assembly adopting this document today. The Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures is a independent and independent body of the Republic of Serbia, which provides protection of rights in public procurement procedures. It's a good thing we have one of these organs. It is good that we have an independent and control institution, which directly contributes to the reduction of corruption and contributes to the rise of anti-corruption awareness in Serbia. I would like to remind you that in December 2012, a new Public Procurement Act was adopted, which began with the application of April 2013, and the effects are already visible and reflected in the savings in the state budget, but also in the drastic reduction of abuse compared to the old law. It is clear that the law has made significant changes in the area of public procurement and is a clear direction towards the development of a single public procurement system in the Republic of Serbia, the economic availability of public funds and the protection of public interests, the increase of the efficiency of the public procurement system, the prevention of corruption and conflicts of interest, as well as further harmonisation with the EU's legal assets. As a state related to public procurement and the application of the law, we expect a big job significantly before EU accession. As is the need to adopt key documents providing for a systemic approach, which is a strategy for the development of a public procurement system and an action plan for its implementation. The action plan should cover all necessary reforms on legislative harmonisation and building institutional capacities under the recommendations of the European Commission. In line with the strategy and action plan, Serbia must present itself through concrete results and take or take appropriate measures to implement national legislation at all levels, both at republican and local level. The general conclusion on the effects of the application of this Public Procurement Act is that significant positive effects have been achieved, such as strengthening transparency and competition through the prevention of non-transparentity and non-competitive proceedings, without publication of a public call. Because of the importance of this topic, and I do not have to remind myself that for SNS this topic is of first-class importance and that since the date of the party's establishment, we have been pointing out the importance of the need for the public procurement process to be arranged in a systematic, precise and transparent manner, SNS MPs are giving full support to further regulation of this area, as well as the work of independent control. That's why we find this report acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3307	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3308	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this is a key law for the functioning of our society and therefore there have been so many different comments during its introduction. This story about this law reminds me of a legendary story about cops and criminals. Just the cops find a way to cut something, criminals find a new way. Every shift in the implementation of this law is a big step for our society. Of course, when you bring one such request, big, with such expectations and expectations of huge savings, it's very difficult to measure it. Of course, that the legislator slowed down a little public procurement procedure for one single reason, so he could control it more easily, but then they, on the other hand, used it to slow down the procedure and, in some ways, use the complication for their interests. I'm on the board of directors of a large public company, and I know there are huge problems in public procurement. For example, it happens that one very important part of which this system works, it breaks down, and we didn't predict in the budget that it could be broken. It is very difficult to obtain it officially and legally, but the legislator had good intentions and every step in this matter is very good. What's important is that during the implementation of this law, we understand where the problems are and now we expect it to change. The essence of this law is to reduce the corrupt base, but our position and task was very difficult. In the last ten years, corruption has reached such a level that all these channels have been so well developed that you can't just find anyone who works with when and how. This is a process. The most important thing is that we are on a good path and the most important thing is to reduce the corrupt basis and increase transparency. What made the offer go down? The offer has been reduced and the level of public procurement has been reduced. It can be understood in two ways. One is that it's an inefficient law, but on the other hand, that those who thought it would be very easy to make public procurement with what they didn't need have given up. Anyway, I think this report is good and we're on track to solve our society's big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3309	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. Since Mr. Pavicevic is not in the O.R., the word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have two reports from the Republic Commission on the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. One refers to the period from 1 April 2013 to 30 June 2013, i.e. from the application of this law, to the new Public Procurement Act, to the six-month period usually covered by the report, the second being for the second six-month period in 2013, from 1 July to 31 December. We also have a report on the supervision of the application of the Public Procurement Act in the previous period, which was submitted by the Public Procurement Administration. As far as these first two reports are concerned, I can conclude that they are very comprehensive and very detailed and that it has made it easier for us to analyse the very reports and the application of the law itself, that is, they are done by the same methodology and have the same subtitles and the same questions are regulated in the same order. I would not retain on this first data, where the public procurement procedures in which the Commission intervened are listed. What attracted my attention and what I think deserves the attention of all of us is under point 6 of the Report, which reads - irregularities that are common in public procurement procedures and activities taken by the Republic Commission, to remove the observed irregularities. Through the conduct of the Republic Commission in the procedures for the protection of the right, the most frequently observed irregularities were found to be the following, and firstly, it says - disregarding the provisions of sublegal acts when drawing up competition documents. This is very important, because we know that sublegal acts specify legal provisions and that's why it's important to apply them. Under two says – a vague and inaccurate content of competitive documentation that does not allow tenderers to apply the correct and acceptable offer, i.e. it does not allow subjectivity and arbitraryness to be excluded in the conduct of the contracting authority when carrying out an expert assessment of the tenders. The following is the definition of technical specifications in public procurement procedures in a way that is discriminatory in character and reduces competition to a limited range of potential bidders or in an insufficiently clear and precise way that would allow potential bidders to make appropriate offers. Next, the narrowing of competition among bidders, by setting additional conditions for participation, which by nature and scope are not adapted to the subject of public procurement or do not have a logical connection with the same. Then, the necessary implementation of public procurement in the negotiating process is unjustly aware of as little as possible. Then, incorrectly implemented and not reasoned expert assessment of offers, the absence of verification of the existence of procedural assumptions for handling at the time of the first-degree procedure carried out by the contracting authority. I think it is very commendable that the Commission has cited all these shortcomings that have been in the public procurement process during this period, because we need to be aware that the law has not been implemented in full capacity. One of the papers introduced by this law is also a misdemeanour procedure, which should be conducted by the Commission. During the first period of April to June, there was no infringement procedure. Four infringements were initiated in the next period by the end of the year, according to reports by legal and natural persons who have active legitimacy, according to official duty. It is a small progress, but there is still some progress to be made by this institution to conduct a misdemeanor procedure, in order to punish those perpetrators, because it is not an accident that it is legally envisaged as such. What I would like to draw from this report on the supervision of the application of the Public Procurement Act for the previous year, which was delivered by the Public Procurement Administration, is under point 2. – normative frameworks, where it says which are normative, or sublegal acts to bring, but I also find that, on the other hand, not all sublegal acts provided for by the Public Procurement Act have yet to be passed, although the deadline for this has passed. The following sublegislative act should be brought - first of all, the list of orderers. We know that it is very important that it exists and is made public in order for the procurement process to be more transparent. On a proposal from the finance ministry and the Public Procurement Administration, it is brought and brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the financial year. I think there were conditions to be made at the beginning of this year, that there was enough time since the law was passed to prepare for this year and bring in a list of orderlies and it's really one big flaw that hasn't been done. Furthermore, the list of contracting entities applying the exemption provided for in Article 7(1) and not to list further, which is also brought by the Government. This is an exception from the purchasers of the previous bet. Then, the Regulation on the mode and programme of professional training and how to pass an expert examination for public procurement officers by the Public Procurement Administration. Under four, a plan to fight corruption in government-procurements, which were prepared by the Public Procurement Administration and the Anti-Corruption Agency in accordance with Article 21 of the Law and delivered to the Government. One of the basic reasons when the Public Procurement Act was passed was that the applicable law was very corrupt at the time, that it was at high risk of corruption and that this risk was misused and that there was a high degree of corruption and that the new law would regulate it. The government, although receiving this plan to fight corruption, has not yet found time to adopt it, to revive and bring its results, of course, as soon as it is scheduled to be brought. Then, the Public Procurement Regulation in the area of defence and security brought by the Government in whose application the Public Procurement Administration and the Regulation laying down the general procurement dictionary adopted by the Government in accordance with Article 56 which has been prepared by the Public Procurement Administration, obtained the necessary opinions of the competent authorities and referred to in the further procedure for adoption. The Department of Public Procurement has obviously fulfilled its tasks here, but the government has failed and I think it should be engaged and, as soon as possible, bring this sublegal act. The component of this report is both conclusions and recommendations that, I think, deserve the same special attention and little who looked back on them today. The basic conclusion is that it is necessary to work to strengthen transparency and competition without curbing a non-transparent and non-competitive negotiating process, without making public calls public, which is quite acceptable to be a trend in the next period. I don't know what the results are. I ask what results have been achieved on this plan since the application of the new law? Second, an important instrument for strengthening transparency and competitiveness in public procurement is to curb the undue exemption from the application of the Public Procurement Act and should indeed make sure that this exemption is reduced to the minimum possible extent only in the necessary cases. The following important observation is that it is necessary to continue taking measures to increase the participation of bidders in public procurement procedures, thereby improving the indicator of intense competition and, of course, that the development of healthy competition is one of the priorities of the development of our economy in general. It is also important to identify recommendations for greater participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in procurement procedures, given that these companies are the most vulnerable categories of bidders, particularly from the aspect of centralisation of public procurement, whose development is expected in the upcoming period. Of course, that's what we said was the basis for developing our economy, for encouraging the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and in order to be able to work uninterrupted, they must be assured that they can participate equally in public procurement procedures, offer their goods and their services. The following observation by the Public Procurement Administration regarding the application of the new law is – by introducing better supervision of the application of the law, it is ensured that the contracting authorities who unfoundedly exempt themselves from the application of the law, such as pharmacies, institutions, e.g. They start applying the law. Is it actually realized to what extent? Have these institutions really started to apply the law and how have they so far exempted themselves? The law provided for the possibility of exemption. In further conclusions and recommendations, it also calls for EU recommendations and mentioning again – that exemptions from the application of the law be reduced to a minimum, that the contracting authorities are overly turned to implementing the open procedure, to monitor the execution of the contract, which is also very important, and then I will say why, and it is said that there are weaknesses in the organisation and implementation of central procurements that can also cause various practical changes in the functioning of health institutions. In addition to the above, they are forced to initiate emergency negotiation procedures if the procedure initiated by the central authority fails. We have already said this before, that indeed, especially when it comes to health care, it is necessary to apply the law as best as possible and to prepare public procurement better. In one segment, it finds – the effects of initial weaknesses in appropriate centralised procurements for state authorities and organisations as well as health care may be difficulties in the regular supply of suppliers, as well as an increased number of requirements for the launch of an emergency negotiation procedure by those authorities in order to overcome possible shortages and consequences of emergency situations. It points again to the arrangements, to the creation of public procurement plans, which means that in that part the law did not function to the extent that it should have. (President: Time.) ) I would just point out that a great deal of effort should be made in public procurement in the making of plans and arrangements for various segments individually. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3311	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if the words of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3312	Thank you, Chairman. We have not heard any answers to any questions, and that is, above all, how long do the evaluation procedures last when individual bidders complain to the Commission? On the other hand, NDS MPs have made clear the problems that follow the application of this law. Some of these questions were also referred to by MPs of the position, the fact that there are so-called Professional bidders who are almost exclusively engaged in this business and in the destruction of the tender. We have pointed out the problem of public procurement in health care that prevents the removal of malfunctions on important medical appliances and the purchase of new ones. In that sense, we feel that it is necessary to go towards some amendments to the law. Generally, we in the New Democratic Party believe that enough time has passed and that the problems in the application of this law have been identified, some have been given in your report, and some have not been given, we heard them today in the debate, and that it would be time for these poor segments that have been corrected in law to bring about new amendments and additions to this law, so that, for example, yesterday's credit for the rehabilitation of roads, which we discussed, would be compromised by the fact that public procurement in some segments of the realisation of this loan will be slowed down and will bring these works in the autumn and winter, when they cannot be realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3313	I thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. I give my word to Sasha Varinc, President of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3314	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I intend to wait for the end of your statements and questions asked and then answer all these questions. I'm sure it wasn't the intention of leaving any of your questions without an answer. I can thank you because we've heard a lot of findings here. These findings were also in the form of objections, as well as in the form of praises. They mean a lot to both of us in our work. We will take each other seriously and strive to respect them and strive to act in harmony with them, for this is important to us. We believe that in this way we have been given the opportunity, not only to address you as the MPs, but also to the citizens of this country that you represent, to point to the results of our work, but certainly to the state of the public procurement system, as we see it, and also to propose some measures that would help the situation in that system and the system itself improve in the future. I'd like to start by answering questions. Dear People's MP Olgica Babic asked a question about the money savings achieved by this law. There were more questions like that. There were also questions to make clear how much was planned for public procurement, and how much was spent in the previous year, to compare these amounts and to come to the conclusion of how many were actually realised, or how many purchases were not realised. What I can tell you is that the information on this has primarily the Public Procurement Administration, based on reports that they supply and which are the contracting authorities are obliged to deliver to them on any public procurement procedure implemented. These analyses are done, prepared and published by the Public Procurement Administration. I think these reports are also published on their website and on the portal. So, hardly from the point of view of the practices of the Republic Commission, we can talk about how much savings were actually made, and how many purchases were made or not implemented. The only thing that we can deal with in this report and what we do, is deciding on submitted rights protection requests and on the procedures that have been initiated, through which we exercise our powers, especially these special powers that are mentioned on several occasions. Also, the question of a Member of Parliament, Olga Babic, was it...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3315	I'm sorry, People's MP Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3316	Excuse me. I apologize to the People's Parliament, and I apologize to you. The issue was about strengthening human resources – were there support from the National Assembly? I can say that we had the full support of the Administrative Committee, that on two occasions we asked to strengthen our personnel capacity and increase the number of employees. On this basis, and based on the consent we received, we have hired 17 new advisors working on law protection cases from April 1st of last year. What we think our mission has been so far, and from now on it will be, is to see realistically what needs are both in technical and human terms, so that we can actually exercise all the powers we have received and all those jobs that have given us jurisdiction. So I can say that in the next period, depending on the need that we determine, in this sense we will address the Administrative Committee and the National Assembly at all and show what it is we need to do in order to exercise these powers. It is certainly a task in the next period and to establish, and this is already mentioned, to what extent are real powers, whether there is a need to correct something in the legal provisions in order to improve the system and enable the basic principle of public procurement to be achieved, which is the economic and efficiency of public funds, i.e. the use of public funds. A question has also been asked by Algica Batic in terms of active legitimacy – do we have any suggestions, do we need to change the active legislation? Active legitimacy is the power to apply for the protection of rights given to a certain number of persons. Even some state institutions, such as the Public Procurement and DRI, have that authority. It is possible to analyse this, and it is possible that at that initial stage of each procurement procedure, which is the publication of the competition documentation, before the publication of the invitation to tender, until the end of the time limit for submission of tenders, we have too wide an active legitimacy. In practice, any interested person who can prove in some way the interest to conclude the contract could apply for the protection of rights, when you have in mind that the Company Act allows any economic operator to carry out all the activities other than those for which a special authorisation is sought, so there is no special authorisation. In some of the laws of parallel law, there has been somewhat narrowed down to the active legislation, but nowhere has it narrowed down so much that the number of applications submitted for the protection of rights has been significantly reduced. There was also talk of an increase in the amount of tax. I think, above all, this refers to a claim for the protection of rights that challenge this very stage of the procedure and the competitive documentation, because now we have the solution that it is always a fixed amount – 40,000 or 80,000, depending on whether it is a public procurement process of small value or so on. a large purchase. At a later stage of the procurement process, we have the solution that the claim for protection of rights is tied to a percentage of 0.1%, either of the estimated value or of the amount offered in the offer of the selected bidder. So the question can be asked whether to correct a provision that regulates the amount of tax on the application against the competition documentation? In this case, why would it be a fixed amount, regardless of what the value of public procurement is? When we talk, and that's mentioned, one term that I personally wouldn't use too much in putting on "professional tender triggers", I would say abuse of the right to apply for protection of rights. There is a provision that empowers us to sanction such cases, however, as with any abuse and in such cases we must establish our intention. The fact that one’s request has been rejected three times in six months as stated in the provision still does not mean that someone intended to abuse his right and deliberately obstruct a public procurement procedure. We're running some tests. In several situations where we suspected of such abuses, we will really sanction those abuses if we find out that there have been. It is precisely possible that some correction of the provisions in the future will lead to a possible higher amount of taxis or a more realistic one, a better said amount of tax for requirements that are applied at that initial stage, as well as one mechanism that we have proposed, as one of our ideas, which is that the first applicants are required, or those who consider that they are damaged by the actions of the orderr to address the error, to try a peaceful solution to the dispute that has arisen, and only then to move the entire mechanism of protection of the right and to pay the tax. We think that in that way everything might be more effective and that it would reduce the number of those demands that, let's say, are malicious. Dear People's MP Dejan Radenkovic has raised the issue of harmonisation in the work of the Greater Republic Commission. I said at the beginning in presenting the report that the Republic Commission, under the provisions of the new law, decides in greater than three members. This allows us to act on multiple objects at the same time, working in two larger ones. The Republic Commission has six members and a president, so this allows us to decide at the same time on multiple applications for the protection of rights and, of course, on other issues in our jurisdiction. What I can tell you is that, above all, it's the principle of legal attitudes that coordinate the work higher, and because whenever we recognize that there is a question that will often arise and can create some dilemmas among those applying the law, it will also create dilemmas with members of the Republic Commission. Then with that we will attend a session, a general session attended by all members and presidents of the Republic Commission. A principled legal position is adopted and this principled position is certainly binding on all members, as well as on the President of the Republic Commission. Also, a rule has already been established that whenever members of the Commission and members of those councils who act on matters of protection see that there is a problem, there is a topic that requires that both the other members and the president hear what the problem is, what is disputed by the applicant, to inform me as president, to keep me informed as president. Then I'm calling on a college, a kind of joint gathering, a session, a meeting where we're considering the issue before it's decided on a bigger one. We also have some elaborate decision-control mechanisms that are being expended, coming out of the Republic Commission, and that's how some kind of court practice that we have in the courts is established. Your second question was about the urgency in the conduct of the Republic Commission and whether something was done in this sense in order to really achieve these deadlines prescribed by the new Public Procurement Act. I can tell you that during this reporting period, the second reporting period, we had special measures set up by the decision of the President of the Republic Commission. These measures have been seen that during November and December we worked longer, working hours have been extended. It was two days a week, but it also showed its effect. We also worked one working Saturday in each of those months, and that gave certain effects. What I can tell you about the current state and the current measures, that these measures have been reintroduced and that, practically, from 26 May to the end of August, we work every day for an hour longer. I don't want to advertise in this way, but I'm trying to answer your question. Indeed, we strive to achieve what is expected of us. I repeat, deadlines are very important because each application for the protection of rights retains further and further activities of the contracting authorities and expects us to get that decision and to continue with their daily activities in relation to which they are and the procurement they are carrying out. The next question was the decisions of the Administrative Court, i.e. the reasons why the Administrative Court in several cases annulled the decisions of the Republic Commission. Such cases were in situations where, for example, the Administrative Court did not consider that there was sufficient justification for the decision-making process or considered it possible that it was not complete documentation on which it was decided, etc. What I must point out in this respect is that these decisions of the Administrative Court which are represented for these two reporting periods are essentially related to the decisions of the Republic Commission referred to above because simple courts have a slightly slower pace in deciding and delivering decisions, so we are just expecting and there are first decisions of the Republic Commission. We expect in some of the following reports that we will present these decisions as well. As for the call by the bidder to the decisions of the Republic Commission, I can say that both bidders and contracting entities are increasingly being called, and this is due to this publication of all decisions both on the website of the Republic Commission and on the portal of public procurement. We are glad that it is, because it simply makes it easier for us to coordinate and follow our work and really remind ourselves of what decisions we have made. It's a lot of decisions and it's not easy to remember, of course, all the cases that have appeared in practice. As regards the irregularities identified and listed in this report and what the Republic Commission has taken to remove these irregularities, I can tell you that through any decision which we decide on these irregularities, and if we have identified irregularities, it is a sure annulment of the procurement procedure, we order how to remedy these irregularities. So it's not just about pointing out in the decision that the client made a mistake about it and that, but it has to be given a warrant, and that's our obligation under the law, to point out how to remove the irregularity. After that, there is a follow-up to the execution of all the decisions that we have made even though we do not have such an obligation under the law, we follow the execution of all the decisions that have been made and it takes certain dynamics, we can not all of a sudden follow-up, to cover everything and a lot of decisions at once. In doing so, we practically repeat the decision in this follow-up, because we are looking for documentation and we are determining whether the client has really acted on the basis of documentation and his statement. Therefore, I can say that during these two reporting periods, we have largely carried out a review of the decisions made under the old law and in the previous term, which have not passed the check. Under the old law, the Republic Commission was obliged to notify the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the DRI, the budgetary inspection of all identified irregularities and of these cases where the documentation on the conduct of our decision has not been delivered to us, or when we find that it is not really followed by our decision. That's what we've done in each of these cases. As far as the cases under the new Public Procurement Act are concerned, it is our obligation to impose fines and in six cases a procedure has been initiated to impose fines. We can impose fines on the client as a legal person, as well as the responsible person of the client, so that in the next period we expect to end these proceedings and make the first decisions about it. It is one procedure that requires that some more facts be established, not just whether our decision is followed, that all circumstances be measured so that you can also determine the amount of fines. We certainly expect that in the next period. You asked one question, and perhaps more as a finding, in terms of an increase in taxes. I said earlier that I think it would be a better solution if at this initial stage of the procurement process, when applications are submitted for competitive documentation, we actually get, I would say, a more realistic amount of that fee. It's not about limiting the right to challenge public procurement procedures, it's just that we try to be realistic in that protection of rights and not allow abuses. It's hard to sanction them when the procedure is already disputed, when the decision is made, because then we have to determine the intention of the applicant, did he really want to interfere with a public procurement procedure. I think it's a much better approach to get serious about this protection of rights, not to say that it's not serious right now, but that the one who contests the procedure and thus stops it at that initial stage really invests some of his own interest and that he can lose that interest in the event that it is negatively decided against his request. That interest -- I mean, first of all, the fee on the application. The next question was asked by Commissioner Dubravka Filipovski. What is asked as a question – how to tighten the application of the law and how to sanction irregularities, I would not repeat myself, I would point out the same thing that I have answered so far to some raised questions. In fact, the Republic Commission is seeking to give orders in its decisions to order officers on how to remove irregularities, to monitor the implementation of those decisions. We will sanction those cases where we find that our decision is not respected, and we certainly have co-operation with other state bodies, the prosecution, which is almost daily co-operation on some of the procedures that are being initiated before the prosecutions, and in that sense we will help resolve some of the situations that create suspicion of abuse. Dear Mr. People's MP Goran Ciric pointed out the list of non-respecting customers of the Republic Commission's decisions listed in these reports. I would just say that we have to be completely careful that what we have been examining in terms of the execution of our decisions also refers to the decisions made before and in this respect, before 1 April 2013, and in that sense, there are procurements that were carried out before and before 1 April of last year, i.e. before the start of the new Public Procurement Act. In terms of the realisation of public procurement, i.e. the percentage of realisation, i gave the answer. I believe the Public Procurement Administration is, above all, an institution that can answer such questions. Dear Mr. People's MP Janko Veselinovic asked a question about the duration of the proceedings before the Republic Commission, how long these proceedings are going on. It seems to me that the data on this is not listed in the report. All I'd say is that we listed the data. You can see the information in the first report on page 110, and in the second report on page 265. I will tell you and read these data: As far as the first reporting period is concerned, the total duration of the procedure from the formation of the case is 27 days, and the time from the receipt of the complete documentation is 15.58. As for the second reporting period, the total duration of the procedure since the formation of the case was 42 days, and the time of decision, which effectively, was 23.61 from the completion of the documentation. In the first report, on page 110, you have data, and in the second report, for the second reporting period, on page 265. What I'm also trying to say is that this is where the deadlines for action are mixed, both in the old and in the new law. It's hard to separate these procedures and decision-making deadlines in terms of getting a percentage to decide. There were procedures in which deadlines were breached. We do not run away from it, and we have told it to the National Assembly. We also delivered special information. We simply do not want to, nor can we hide something like that, but we must point out that at this stage of the new law, there are really special circumstances in which the Republic Commission is acting. Namely, the number of applications submitted for the protection of rights has been increased. We also have a new obligation, which is to keep an eye on some injuries, even though they are not indicated in the rights requirements themselves, and the new law itself creates the obligation to think carefully, to stop in some cases, because you have to establish a new practice. Some practice about it didn't exist until then, but now you're creating it and you need to take it seriously. The next thing I can say is that there have been certain objections, there have been some media, perhaps, texts on this, about the delay in making a decision by the Republic Commission, but, I would only ask you to pay attention, and we will pay particular attention, as the orderrs have handled in these cases. We had some situations where there was a delay in the decision-making of the Republic Commission, and the client himself waited long enough to launch the procurement, and to make up competitive documentation, and later to carry out the procurement process. But it certainly shows that we must respect the deadlines and that there has been an overrun of those deadlines. We will try in the coming period to really achieve what is expected of us, i.e. Let's keep it up to date. The next question is, do we have enough capacity? I'd say we do now. We're going to follow that in the next period and we're going to try to really secure those capacities that we need. Dear People's MP Zoran Zivkovic asked a question about a more accessible website, i.e. the conclusion that it is necessary to provide a more present website for public procurement procedures, that this is going electronically. I can point out that the Public Procurement Administration is working on it and a special application is being created. Dear MP Vladimir Djukanovic asked why he has little activity in the application of special powers, and above all there was no control over the client and why only four infringements were initiated. First of all, I have to say that the controls on the client were still not because the contracting authorities were still delivering complete documentation with their statements to the Republic Commission and we were quite clear about what was going on with these proceedings after our decisions were made and we were clear in which cases they did not act and it was clear from the very documentation we received. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, I must point out that the Republic Commission is conducting misdemeanor proceedings on the basis of requests for the initiation of criminal proceedings by authorised institutions, primarily the Public Procurement Authority. We now have 41 requests to initiate a misdemeanor procedure. The first decisions have been made. These are procedural decisions and in one case a decision has been taken to initiate the procedure and there will be the first hearing of the defendant covered by the request. The question has also been asked why, in certain cases, we have declared that we refuse to, as it is said, decide. I don't know what these cases are, but I can tell you. I don't know what the MP meant, but I'm guessing these are the situations where we reject the request for protection of rights. This is what we do when we find out that we are not in charge, and we are not in charge when procedures are not carried out under the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, but some of the exceptions of Article 7. The law on public procurement, for example, when the procedure is implemented under the rules of an international financial institution, such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We also reject the claim for protection of rights in those situations where there are no procedural assumptions, when no tax has been paid despite an orderly call to pay taxes or when an untimely application for protection of rights has been submitted. Dear People's MP Biljana Hasnović Korac has asked questions about the purchases of pharmacies and there have been stories here at all about the purchases of health institutions. I could tell you that nothing in the new law has changed in relation to the previous law in terms of the obligation to implement the Law on Public Procurement and in these cases. We're deciding on applications for protection of rights. These are potentially very complex and very valuable items, i.e. public procurement procedures. It often crosses over a billion dinars and with special attention we approach the solution of such objects. So much for answering your questions. I want to thank you again in the end and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3317	Thank you very much. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3318	Mr. Varinac, I'll thank you first. I will thank you for the work that you and your associates are very responsible for in the Commission for the Protection of Public HHHHHnabaki. I'll also thank you for the time you've set out today and for the very comprehensive report. I will also thank you for the honesty that is so necessary that there is a good co-operation between the Commission and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Administrative Committee, which is responsible for strengthening the capacity of independent regulatory bodies, including the Commission. I hope to say this on behalf of all colleagues of the Administrative Committee, but also on behalf of the National Assembly, that this co-operation will be in the direction and in the future, both in terms of strengthening the Staff and its second strengthening of the Commission itself. There's been a lot more talk today about the Public Procurement Act. Any law passed and adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in my opinion, is like a child. It's not enough just to have him and let him go. It's necessary that law, that child raise, monitor, point out some bad things, work things out, make things better. I think one of these is your exhaustive report exactly how we can solve some challenges in a better and better way. The law on public procurement is the pride of the SNS because we spoke to problems in public procurement procedures even at a time when my party was in opposition. And in 2010, we also proposed in the assembly procedure the Law on Public Procurement, but we came across a wall, on a wall of silence, on a wall of rejection, on a wall of misunderstanding, on a wall of looking aside and allowing millions of euros in funds from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to flow in who knows which direction, to finance who knows who, and I see that some of the procedures in public procurement are now being conducted in criminal and other proceedings. I heard a fellow who threw it away – so did the others. Yes, the signing of 138 MPs is behind this Law on Public Procurement. I would like to thank the coalition partners of the past Government of the Republic of Serbia for accepting the values and for having adopted and applying this Public Procurement Act in our heart in this National Assembly. The very way of passing and adopting the Law on Public Procurement is the etalon, the way, the procedure, the standard for all system laws. The draft law on public procurement has been sent to dozens, not to say hundreds of addresses and domestic but also international institutions and associations. Every regret, every suggestion we've come up with. Every good will, we have implemented every good suggestion in this Public Procurement Act and therefore the support we have on this occasion has proved to be good in the application of this law since 01 April 2013. I believe this Public Procurement Act has brought three important values to our society. The first value is transparency. The second value is the financial effect. The third non-small value is a European perspective. I will remind the MPs, I have not heard that today someone touched and these topics that Chapter V in the EU negotiation process are public procurement. I will also call on Mrs Miscevic's words not to expect any major challenges in this Chapter V and that everything that has been done so far indicates that Chapter V may be the fastest and easiest one to go through. True, what is necessary to do, and I think that some deadlines and let a strategy and action plan be done, so that I call on you, but also the Public Procurement Administration, which is a major carrier of this, that this part of the work and the strategy, but also about the action plan, end up in maximum speed so that at least because of one chapter as a state, they don't have a headache. The financial effect, yes, in the announcement of this law, was predicting that it would bring major financial savings, primarily. According to the Public Procurement Administration, I think the only and relevant for this kind of assessment, but the exact output from the data on how much savings was made, for nine months of applying the Public Procurement Act in 2013 was the savings of 355m euros. Then someone will say - and why isn't it anymore? The worst one, who says -- why no more, has suffered some old law for years under which 355 million in nine months, which is about 450 million a year, has been poured out who knows where and who knows who. I will remind the citizens of Serbia, remind all of you, dear colleagues, 450m euros is one-third of the deficit of the Republic of Serbia's budget. One third of the budget of the Republic of Serbia was given by 2012 by who knows who, by whom, knows what conditions, because we closed our eyes to problems in public procurement procedures, because the former government and the former government had so much in the way of closing doors, building walls according to the SNS hand provided, and according to the Public Procurement Act. I wish this law had entered the 2010 assembly procedure and was adopted in 2010. They would have saved 450m euros in 2011 and 2012. In just two years of silence from the former regime, the one who now cares about why it is only 450 and not 600 would save nearly a billion euros, a nearly one-year deficit of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The third value is transparency. I will refer to the words of my friend and respected professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences, Mr. Zoran Stojiljkovic, who says light is the best disinfectant. The more light, the less corruption. That very light, that very reflector has brought and activated this Law on Public Procurement, which is now in the process. Why am I telling you this? All public procurement procedures have become available on the public procurement portal of the Public Procurement Authority, 44,500 public calls were announced. All ads are free. The average daily visit to the public procurement portal is 4,834 ads or 600% more than under the old Public Procurement Act. Is it small? When I say - light is the best disinfectant, according to the old Public Procurement Act, although some colleagues unfortunately do not like these comparative methods, however, this company provides a guideline for further operation, according to the old Public Procurement Act, the share of the negotiation process on the total value of public procurement for 2012 was 28%. Each third public procurement, using a jargon recognizable in Serbia, was a burazer, godfather, behind closed doors, in the presence of directors and bidders and probably two glasses of whiskey on the table. All agreed, 28% of such public procurement was completed in the process, where the director called one bidder, so with a bottle or with a few glasses of drinks all agreed. According to this Public Procurement Act 11. Two-and-a-half times, the very possibility of a burazer, godfather, agreed public procurement has been reduced. Am I satisfied? I'm not and I won't be satisfied until we bring that percentage to the European average, which is between 5% and 6%, Mr. Varinac, if I'm not mistaken. That's the goal. That's why we need the company. That's why we need it to show the difference between the former and the present and give the task for the next. Two-and-a-half times is a better law, at least in that part, than the old one, but the next one has to be, not the next law, but the application and reduction of that closed procedure or behind closed doors, and the goal is 5% to 6%, which is the European average. Also, the share of the open procedure as the most transparent and most competitive in the total value under the old Public Procurement Act was 56% in the open, up to 144. So 44% or 44 values of all public procurement by 1 April 2013 were closed and ended up behind closed doors, without lights, not reflectors now lit, in darkness, in darkness, in agreement, 44%. It's a lot different now. The open procedure ends in 79 and that is the difference compared to 56% and there is a difference of almost 50% compared to the old law. Do you have to dream about 100%? Yeah, well, that depends on both the commission and the administration. This also depends on the Law on Infractions, because unfortunately, people in Serbia, young people can educate. The older ones always get that stick and the bar of the law that they say – if you're wrong, you have to sit on the defendant's bench. I was somewhat more drastic in conversations with the DRI, and I hold on to this a little bit stricter view that those people who sin, for whom the Commission or the Public Procurement Administration or the Court or the DRI say they have sinned, that they have wronged the law, about the resources of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, cannot pay a small penalty, can not even go to prison, so that they return to do the same thing again, cannot approach the state money anymore, they cannot come to the possibility of having funds that are not theirs, but by means of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I think there was a trip. I've been listening very carefully today about these trippings, these phantom firms, these phantom people who are just here to stop and hitchhike. I've been listening to every grudge. What gives me pleasure is that I have not heard a single complaint under this Public Procurement Act that there has been an abuse. I haven't heard a single hint of dishonesty. I've heard of a lack of speed, but between honesty and speed, this law has been defined, this government is defined for honesty. That's what brought, as one extra value, honesty, before some too much speed. They're free of speed, if at that speed we're going to lose money, we're going to lose most of the public procurement. The Serbian Progressive Party will back the report in voting day. As the largest parliamentary group in the Serbian parliament, we are always at your disposal to communicate and improve the co-operation you have with the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-06-18-0.u3319	I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 4 and 5 of the agenda. We continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. on the third point of the joint single search. Thank you very much.
