ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13131	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have two questions about the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Minister of Agriculture. The first question concerns subsidies, i.e. vomiting in agriculture. Last year, the National Assembly passed the Law of Incentives of primary agricultural production and what I am interested in is a special item of vomiting. What does that mean? Vomiting refers to people who have registered agricultural holdings, i.e. for holders of registered landowners who bought during this calendar year agricultural machinery, tractors and connected machinery, and who raised plastics, as well as buying irrigation equipment. What does that mean exactly? A regulation adopted by the Ministry of Agriculture said that all those who supplied the goods and bought the items could submit requests for a partial refund of those funds from 1 January to the end of October 2014. My question for the Minister of Agriculture is – how many total agricultural registered holdings have submitted applications and how much has these funds been paid so far? We have data that these funds are limited, or limited in the 2014 budget. That's why I'm interested, with today's day, how much is paid, how much is the individual maximum amount paid at one refund request, not for all subsidies? Once again, the question is: How many registered owners filed a request? The second question concerns the same minister. All these days, we're all witnessing a rather unpleasant story that surprised us all through the media, and it's about whether lemon in Serbian shops and on markets is right for food? The minister made a brief statement saying that lemon is correct for food, but I am interested and this is just a reason that the Serbian public also gets clear information on who is controlling the import of the southern fruit, above all on the Serbian market? I personally witnessed that in Croatian wholesales and markets, where Turkey's lemon stands, it is clearly and loudly written in large letters that the bark of this lemon is not for human consumption. Teached by this example, I ask Ministerial Agriculture – what are the reference laboratories in Serbia, where every consumer, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia can take a sample of any lemon, any other southern fruit and get clear information on whether it's for human consumption? We are all consumers and we have, of course, small children who consume it and we want to know clearly and loudly whether it's for human use or not, that it's already made clear and that the Serbian public knows what these reference laboratories are that clearly need to cut off whether something can go to market or something can't go to market. The third question is also related to the agriculture minister. Will the Ministry, by the end of this calendar year 2014, reach a regulation or conclusion that local self-government will be made clear in which way and will it be made easier on the income tax from agriculture, which is being applied at new rates this year, i.e. at the country's market value, and not, as it was earlier, at the cadastrian value? Now those numbers are much larger. Since we know that this year has been very difficult for agricultural production because of everything that followed, and the elemental disasters, and floods, and everything else, I wonder if the Ministry of Agriculture, so that local self-government would not go from one to the other, have lower rates, the other would have more rates, and the neighbouring municipalities were concerned, I would ask the Minister of Agriculture whether the Government, or the rest of the ministry, would come out either with a conclusion or with one regulation, where would the regulation be sent to circulatory and local self-government and that one rate applied to all municipalities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13132	Thank you. The word has a master of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, my question has been asked because of something the health minister told us yesterday, and this is not the first time he has said it in this assembly. In fact, he trusted us so much that he finds ways to bypass the Law on the ban on employment in the public sector. He said it's not true that people aren't hired, that he hires doctors, which actually means, and that's what he explained, that there's a commission that makes a decision whether anyone can get a job. Now, I'm interested, in general, in the DS, so we're asking the government -- how many people are employed in the public sector and public enterprises from the entry into force of the Public Sector Employment Prohibition Act? Because what the minister said actually means that employment still exists, only that the procedure is now non-transparent, because people are not employed as they were employed in public competitions, but through various committees. To be clear, it's no problem hiring a doctor at all. The problem is that, for example, in Novi Sad of 78 people, proposed by the SNS for committees in the City of Novi Sad Assembly, 52 of the elections were employed by New Sad public enterprises. We have seen in the budget rebalancing, which we have had the opportunity to adopt in this Assembly, that the mass of salaries for employees of public enterprises and the public sector has been increased, although individual salaries have been reduced, from which we can only conclude that the number of these people who pay these salaries is higher than they were before. As is not a problem with the employment of doctors, but with the employment of party staff, it is also not a problem for doctors or professors' salaries, but rather the problem of salaries in public enterprises, such as "Serbian Corridors", where the number of employees was raised by 50% last year and the average salary is 144,000 dinars. This all leads us to conclude that what is done is clean marketing, as we see, and the Law on the ban on public sector employment was a clean marketing, because it is the easiest thing to do – to cut everyone's wages 10%, one very easy position, is just the problem with not making any savings. My second question concerns something we've already talked about, which is the engagement of a certain lobbyist agency called "Bell Potinger". My question is addressed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – did and against whom she filed a criminal complaint at the agency, since after the government announced that she had no arrangement with that agency, we had the opportunity to see an invitation for an event in London, where on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the agency invited interested companies, with all the signature of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic? If what the government is saying is true, it would mean that the agency is using the president's signature unauthorizedly to invite investors and various firms to an event that falsely announces that members of the government will attend, including Minister Zorana Mihajlovic and many other members of the government. We expect that in this case, the government of the Republic of Serbia has filed criminal charges against someone who abuses the name in such a way, the signature of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, unless there has been another identity theft. You know what it's like with those IDs, maybe someone on behalf of the government faked a deal with that agency without the agency knowing it wasn't the Prime Minister. So, the first question is -- how many people have been employed in public enterprises since the time of entry into force of the Public Sector Employment Prohibition Act, and the second -- against whom has the government of the Republic of Serbia filed a criminal charges against the company for false representation that the company has a contract with the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13134	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13135	Thank you, Madam President. Since in days and weeks, months behind us, and I believe that it will be so in the days and weeks ahead of us, the saga or soap opera called the province government directed by Bojan Pajtic continues, which is why the public was showered with different information, different messages. We are witnessing some unprincipled in politics, but unfounded, but founded in the economy of coalitions between Bojan Pajtic, DS and SRS, for example, as well as some other parties. That is why I have a question for the interior minister, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic and the call for doubt not only exists by the SNS, but also by the parties who are at the moment and who support Bojan Pajtic to retain power in Vojvodina with 6% of the support of the people of Vojvodina, which is against all democratic principles and principles, to determine whether there were elements, receiving and giving bribes on November 3rd and in the days before November 3rd? Were there elements, financial elements that allowed Bojan Pajtic to survive politically, in terms of government in Vojvodina, to survive another day? I have a question for the interior minister, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, to inform us that the National Assembly, but also the public, both in Vojvodina and in the rest of Serbia, has been informed, as long as investigations have been made regarding Vojvodina Development Bank? We know the damage that this bank has done in billions of dinars. That the bank has written off claims that cannot be charged at 6.51 billion, that 486 million interest dinars should be added, that the Development Bank with Agro Bank and the Business Bank of Belgrade swallowed 20.8 billion taxpayers' dinars. We were present, if this National Assembly had been legally involved, these debts had been buffered, returned, recapitalised, so that through the dubious loans of individuals with the political patronage of Bojan Pajtic, AP Vojvodina and DS would again be lost through some different siphons or those things that my distinguished colleague, Mr Aleksandar Martinovic, spoke of. Also, I have one more question for Minister Ms. Kori Udovicki, the question is - how functional is the government of the AP Vojvodina? How functional is it and how much does she manage to do her job? How much does he manage to work in the interests of the people of Vojvodina, and how much time does he spend in making this magic number 61, 62 and 63? How much does he do for regrouping the MPs of the provinces, and how much for his work? How will all the next decisions be made in the upcoming Parliaments of the AP Vojvodina? Whether or not they will also be a product of trade, whether they will also be a product, according to my distinguished colleague Atlagic, the transge france, whether in this way, the damage from keeping Bojan Pajtic in power with the entire 6% support of the people of Vojvodina. Will it be paid again from the budget, from some different funds for the development of Vojvodina, from some other development banks, from Tesla Bank, from jobs and all those things that Bojan Pajtic's regime has been held in Novi Sad and the AP Vojvodina? And how many citizens of Vojvodina will it cost in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13136	Are any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, reporting for word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Konstantin Arsenović and Olgica Batic. We continue our work and move on to a principled search on the 7th point of daily work – A PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND FUNDS ON THE FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES You have received a bill submitted by a group of 128 MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Justice and State Administration and the Local Self-Government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities. I ask if MP representative Zoran Babic, wanted? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13137	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on the Financing of Political Activities, the current Law on the Financing of Political Activities was adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2011. It was brought and adopted in another atmosphere, with one another and another congregational majority. It was brought after the work group worked, after a public debate. It was introduced as a work group product in which not only did it not participate, but SNS and SNS representatives, although parliamentary political parties, were not invited to participate. In 2011, Serbia was already at the heart of the global economic crisis. When it is because of the inertness of the then government, ignorance, the inability to respond to this global economic crisis except for the sending of messages that have puzzled Serbian citizens that we have come out of the crisis, but that our citizens will not feel it or that the crisis is our chance or that the crisis will not touch us. The crisis of course not only touched us, but missed through the machine as if it were for grinding meat. In such an atmosphere, a law whose main feature was to finance political activities, to fund political parties, leaves 0.15% of the expenditure foreign budget. The expenditure side of the budget was all those loans taken by the government at the time, doing infrastructure facilities, doing other facilities, but according to the SNS, it was at least rude to take credit, and we know well from the debate on public finances, we know well under what circumstances and what conditions these loans were raised. That in four years from 2008 to 2012, the budget commitments towards interest have increased by 25 times, and that only next year in the 2015 budget will we have to provide for one billion of the payments and repayment budgets, i.e. only to pay interest on loans that this government or the SNS have not taken or spent. On the other hand, political parties, if we're really going to look real and look at each other in the mirror, all political parties don't have that support and don't have that power in our society, so we all want to have it. Is it because of the incarceration, whether because of some non-transparent processes in which we all operate, but the way and the desire of the SNS to through these amendments and complement the Law on the financing of political activities, we return at least one part of the reputations that political parties have in our society and to show and send a clear message of co-existence with the citizens who sent us here, to send a clear message that instead of billboards and posters and tribunes and rallys, it is much more important that schools are built in Serbia, to build roads, to heal our public finances that are part of the global economic crisis, and part of the negligence of the people who led the governments and led this country in the past and contributed. The law proposed by the SNS parliamentary group concerns the amendment of several significant parts of the law. It implies that political parties have the right to purchase real estate, real estate and funds from public finances. What does that mean, and what is the wish of the promoter, what is the wish of the SNS? That political parties not only remain political acts, not what we have done, behind all of us who are involved in politics, and in politics, people are expendable, some new, some younger, some smarter people inherit us here, and that's one perfectly normal democratic process. The desire of the SNS is that in these properties that we will all be able to buy and all have the right to make, to create educational centres, to create centres where young people will learn politics, educate, practice, become better than we are, to become more efficient, to lead this country in the future better, to learn and learn the good things that we have done, and also to learn from our mistakes. I think it's necessary to change the current article 11. The law on financing political activities. On the other hand, all the people who are in this room, all the people who deal with politics, run municipal, city committees, party leaders, know how hard it is to be a tenant, have some leases of space, how many times we've faced some debts. This gives room for political parties for their functioning, not for private functioning, for anyone running a municipal, city board or party, but for party functions, easier party functioning to provide space for future generations, for future people and for their more efficient and better policy-making. Of course, article 19 is changing, and maybe we'll have the most controversy here today. This article is amended in such a way that funds for the financing of regular work of political entities are also used to finance the costs of the election campaign, which is most important in accordance with this law. What does that mean? No permanent campaigns, no bombings with billboards or posters. Public funding can be used for campaigns, but when elections are called, not today, not tomorrow, but for three-and-a-half years, when elections are called or something earlier when local elections are called. Most importantly, members of the 16th and 20th are changing and that is the main message and the main point of this amendment to the law. In Article 16, a percentage of 0,150 is replaced by a percentage of 0,105, but the word “expension” is replaced by the words “tax income”. What does that mean? Some other parliamentary majority and the Democratic Party, which was the backbone of that assembly majority when it was the greatest, most powerful, when it was able to go to the "Development Bank" and get, two, three, five million euros in honor, of course with political support and, of course, by taking the lead and going there, I suppose with Dusan Elezovic or with similar officials of the DS, changed the law by making 0.15% of the budget. It was inadmissible for the financing of political parties and what goes from the budget and from all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to depart even from those funds that are the credit obligations of the Republic of Serbia, from the loans we took, and we know that it was the time when these loans were taken daily. Change has arisen not now. The change was made by the change in government in Serbia in 2012 when, based on the Law on the Budget System, we accounted for 0.15% of the revenue side of the budget, which is from the tax, which is the change in the budget, which is taken as the basis of expenditure, which is financed from tax revenues, i.e. tax revenues are the basis for the calculation of funds financed by political activities and political parties. In this way, we at least agree with the Budgetary System Act as promised, as promised and announced by the SNS, are reducing the rate. We reduce the rate by 30% or 0.150% for regular funding, or 0.1% for election campaigns, to 0.005% and 0.07% for election campaigns, respectively. In this way, we want more funds to remain in the budget, that more funds are used for more useful, more efficient things, that more funds are used to revive and heal public finances, that more funds remain in the budget for the construction of maternity, hospitals, kindergartens, schools, roads, everything that makes life in Serbia, and in this way, by transferring the tax base from the expenditure side which is always the safest, on the income side or on the tax income, we will be motivated to fight that this country has as many tax revenues as possible, not to stick our head in the sand as it was in the past, so only one company Marko Miskovic has found a tax base. For example, some people, as it is now more elegantly called, are no longer tycoon owners, are now owners of large capital, allowed to retail that tax and become obsolete, but this government has also charged 8m euros from Mr. Rankovic Peconi, as Mr. Aleksandar Vukic said here, 8m euros in the name of the tax. We fight with everyone else. "Luka Belgrade" has charged four times more funds in six months than in the past four years together. This is a motive not to turn our heads on the other side when they give us goods without a fiscal bill or when we watch certain things do and the tax is taxed. This is why I seek and expect support, not only of the SNS parliamentary groups that support this bill, I expect the support of all responsible people, coalition partners of the SNS, and I expect support from all MPs, because I think that the point of joining all our policies is to heal public finances, the better life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, more investment, more jobs, and less for political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13138	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13139	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Babiæ, the law you have proposed, I think it is absolutely in place and, as far as the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group is concerned, our support will certainly be on this law. Maybe we should've just done this in reverse. Maybe we should have put this at the beginning of all these big steps that we've taken so far, but anyway, it's not too late for this to get on the agenda because I know this will come into effect right now. These are things we may not need to explain with a lot of pomp. I only needed to get out and tell you that you are counting on the support of the Single Serbia. When I say we don't have to do this with a lot of pomp and commentary, it's because we're passing a law that absolutely makes sense, and when you do something you personally deny, it shouldn't be put in the first place. It should, like, stay somewhere in the shadows, but everyone knows that we are in these steps of reform and we have taken certain steps. When it comes to changing members in the same law regarding spending money during a campaign, you have explained it nicely here, and it is clear that it is your urgency that the campaign is being run at the time of the election, that the campaign is not being run all year. When it comes to the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia and our president, we have always advocated that we do not go to campaigns with billboards, as you just said, and with posters, but that we go with the results and the works that are behind us and that we have achieved in some of our work, so that and when it comes to changing this member, we certainly support it. What I want to take advantage of is the opportunity to draw attention once again, not for the first time, I have had the opportunity to say this in front of the ministers who have explained some of our laws, is the situation that, as much as we are saving or trying to pass laws that will certainly go in the direction of these reforms, we all have to influence together, first of all, the directors of public enterprises and the perpetrators of local authorities. The law on public procurement, which is more transparent than the one that was previously in force, certainly has brought many things to order, but there is still what people who carry out that executive rule paint in some morale and some of their ethics. That is why I call primarily on you as the biggest and most responsible party in this House to draw attention to these people. We're going to do the same thing where we have opportunities, and then in the sum of all the savings we're making, it's evident that in the budget we're going to show some, let's say, unexpected expenditure and, if anything, the things we've saved we expect to spend in the right way. I say once again, the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support this law of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13140	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13141	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right at the very beginning to point out that the Social Democratic Party Group will support these amendments to the law. The reason for that is very much. If all the parts of this society save, if they save employees in public enterprises, if pensioners save, then political parties as part of the society must also contribute. This time, the political parties are really making a very big contribution. For the regular work of political parties, 30% is reduced. If we take it from the expense side, we go to the income side, there's going to be another 5% there somewhere. For regular political campaigns, the reduction is significantly higher, 70%. We must stress this from the simple fact that Serbian citizens need to know that 1.9 billion dinars are allocated to finance political parties from the budget, at least that much is in the rebalance for this year 2014. Not much, but for poor Serbia, not little resources. It should be saved where possible. Let me tell you right now, the Social Democratic Party is committed to democracy. We know democracy isn't the ideal system, but it's the best we know. We also know that democracy costs a lot. We need to know that, and we need to be aware of that. Just because democracy has its price, we also need to adjust that price to the fact that the state of Serbia's economy is in. We must also compare the financing of political parties in line with the economic power of the Serbian state and also the gross social product, because you cannot have good education, good health, parties that will be rich if you have a poor state. So everyone has to be compared to the country's economic power. The Social Democratic Party has had so far and will likely have future modest financial resources. We didn't boast, and we didn't have glamorous conventions. Imagine you're building glamorous conventions with a lot of glamour and scum in a poor country where people fight to survive? We want and insist that everything adapts to the economic power of the country in which we are. We also know that democracy can also be developed by the work of all activists, by funding each individual. The Social Democratic Party doesn't have big financials. We finance from our own resources by the fact that alone, fighting for our own idea, we pay for it from our own pocket. That's why we don't owe anyone anything, and we don't account for anyone. I'd like to say one more thing. There's a gray zone in the financing of political parties. That's what we need to have transparent, public. That gray zone is current these days. You see a lot of people who get laid are members of one party, and in the morning, they wake up, and they're already members of another party. Often during the night, they get a new idea, or they get enlightened or they have a dream. I think it's those who dream of some dream and fly over to other political parties who have done it because of certain financial givings and winnings, and that's the ones who get those funds from the gray zone. That is why the Social Democratic Party advocates that we have clarity, transparency in funding political parties. It is one way for this society, this system, to get Serbia out of one dangerous zone, the corruption that we are fighting, but which is still largely expressed. By supporting this law, the Social Democratic Party remains part of a society in Serbia that is entering reforms, which is ready and itself to bear the burden of all these reforms that will be as it is at the moment. The Social Democratic Party will vote to amend and supplement this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13142	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13143	Thank you. Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, we heard in the presentation of counterpart Babic, who was authorised to propose today this law in front of a group of Serbian Progressive Party MPs, to explain it, a lot of nice words, good intentions, nobility, care for the citizens of Serbia. The problem is that we listen to such words every day when all laws are passed, but the reality in Serbia is different. We listened to how we would implement reforms that would improve business conditions, bring foreign investments. As a result, the World Bank moved Serbia from 77th to 91st in terms of business and foreign investment in Serbia today is less than in previous years. We have heard the best media laws being passed here, in line with the European Commission in Brussels, and as a result we have the seduction of media darkness, the abolition of individual emissions, censorship and various other things spoken of today in this House in another room. During the campaign and the exposé, we had a big concern for pensioners expressed by the president of the Serbian Progressive Party, who, when he needed votes, said that pensions would not be reduced, and in the exposé said there would be the last measure the government would take. As a result, he had but the first one the government hit were pensioners. That's right today. The law is explained by the desire to save, how this will improve the reputation of the parties, and how citizens will be more esteemed by political parties afterwards. I think time will show that the rightful intention of the legislator of this law is contrary, that the intention to shut down political parties in Serbia, to prevent the legal, transparent work of political parties in Serbia, because such a reduction of all parties, except perhaps SNS, will not feel in their regular financing. Why am I saying this? The Serbian Progressive Party is receiving more than 49m dinars per month from the budget today. For the regular work of a party the size of SNS in Serbia, I am responsible for saying, you do not need more than 22, 23 million per month to pay for the rooms in every municipality or bastard in Serbia, to pay employees in the working party, to pay all bills for communals, to pay for the departure of officials on trips, if they do not do it to helicopters, as we have had the opportunity to watch in the campaign, as the ministers go to pre-election meetings, you do not need more than 22, 23 million. With this reduction, if adopted, the SNS will receive just over 30, 33 million dinars a month. So they'll have 10 million each month. I think the SNS has also found a way to use the money and proposes in this law to lift the ban on buying real estate from funds derived from public finances. We've heard that the intention is to open educational centres or I don't know what about the parties. That's a nice idea. But I ask – which other party in Serbia will be able to do this? Which party with the funds he gets can pay the basic costs? Which party does not have campaign debts that must be served practically until the next election? This amendment to the law didn't come by accident. She's prepared for a single media spin. The spin started in the middle of last month, when before we MPs got rebalancing here, news came out that the parties' rebalances are increasing funds for regular work, which was untrue. I'll remind you, by the rebalancing this assembly, the funds for the regular work of political parties have been reduced to a total of over 64.5 million dinars, but that's what nobody wanted to say. He did not want the SNS president to say either, so he said that it was because the parties would get more, which is not true, as a result of a bad law adopted in 2011, when the DS ruled Serbia. Then a public climate was created as you deal with the parties, as they take from pensioners and employees, and they increase themselves, which is not true, is reduced by rebalancing, and these measures will be reduced, the colleague says 30%, and I think it will be reduced even more. I don't know what the calculation is, what the amount of tax revenues are compared to expenditures without a budget transfer. We don't have that on the basis of the law, that bill isn't done. Then it was interesting to me when I heard that argument, to see how the debate was going in 2011, when this law was passed. The Serbian Progressive Party, which had MPs at the time in parliament, was very critical, was the opposition. She was very critical of the law that had 47 members she gave 39 amendments and attacked the law for many things. Almost none of these things are today in the amendments to this law that you propose, except for this thing that the funds are accounted for in relation to the revenue side of the budget. It's the only thing. I can give you a few things you were attacking back then. You attacked the commercial activity of the parties as a means of funding. You said the parties couldn't finance themselves by renting out the rooms they had. Why didn't you change that now with changes and additions to this law? You were saying that the possibility of a legal person's contribution is a corrupt risk to the law. Today there is no change in that to be reduced. I don't want to talk about all the epithets you used back then, but we can talk about that. About the introduction of the law, in this law of electoral guarantee, you said it was a choking of political life, a choking of the opposition. Why didn't you suggest today's changes that the electoral guarantee be abolished? You criticized the way money is distributed for the election campaign, that 80% of the funds are shared by the number of votes won at the end of the campaign and that it is not good, that the parties do not know how much they can be in debt. You were talking about how this law gives too much authority to the Anti-Corruption Agency and how it will be an instrument for the government to fight the opposition. Here, say how it was the Agency's means to fight the opposition and how did the Agency respond to the violation of the law by visiting Mr. Giuliani to Serbia in 2012? Have we ever heard the epilogue of that application and that case that the Agency handled in 2012? You have also criticised the distribution of money for regular work provided for by the law, which speaks of funds being shared on the basis of the number of votes received in the elections. You asked for it to be based on the mandate, and that money could be transferred if the MP or the committee changed the party or the parliamentary club, which you were very critical of in your presentation and you are very concerned about that phenomenon. We share this concern of yours and invite you to open a dialogue on changing the political system in Serbia, amending the Constitution and electoral laws, which would prevent what has been happening in Serbia for the last few years, which we had culminating in it several days ago and in the Vojvodina Parliament. It is often heard in this parliament that this government is committed to fighting crime and corruption. A strategy and action plan to fight corruption, adopted last August, is mentioned. That action plan, to remind you, provides deadlines for some things and some deadlines are 12 months. So it was supposed to be done by August of this year. One of these things has been amended and complemented by this law in a way that determines and distinguishes the obligations of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI. It's not done. We have come up with an Action Plan so that you can boast that you have it, and a strategy, but not implement it. This is another proof that it's not being implemented. Where are the amendments to the laws governing the relationship of the Anti-Corruption Agency and the DRI? Those changes are gone. This code law was adopted in 2011, adopted, as you yourself said, after a public debate. He wasn't adopted by an emergency procedure. They could all be interested in saying their opinions, making their criticisms, making suggestions. Now that's not the case. It's an emergency procedure again. The law was delivered last Friday to the MPs. Today is on the agenda, of course, by emergency procedure. At that time, the law was based in 2011, I repeat, on a recommendation made by GRECO, meaning a group of countries to fight corruption, in 2010 made through 10 recommendations. When the law was passed and its application began in 2012, following the GREKA analysis, their assessment was that Serbia has fulfilled all 10 recommendations and that Serbia deserves recognition for a comprehensive review of the issue of political party financing and GRECO is pleased to find that all recommendations are met in a satisfactory manner. Could anyone today have said anything about this law other than what we are going to say in this congregation today? He couldn't. We have a cheap demagogue under the supposed savings cap that you want to cover up your real intention, intent to prevent political parties in Serbia from working transparently and honestly with as much resources as the current situation in Serbia allows. If you had come out today with a proposal to cut 15%, 20% issue for political parties, we would have supported you. Of course, the parties should get less at a time when one part of their income and pension is taken from citizens so that this country can stay, but with such a reduction, this goal will not be achieved. I don't know what it's going to be, three and a half billion dinars, 350, 400 million dinars, I'm sorry. Let's see what bridges, schools, what we're gonna do with that money. On the other hand, you'll get the political parties into a situation where they won't be able to finance their regular work, maybe put them in a position to succumb to some dirty money, become corrupt. What you were afraid was going to happen, now you can really do what you said in 2011. We've given a few amendments to this bill so we can finally vote for it. We repeat, it is totally unacceptable that funds for regular work can buy real estate. This reduction rate is unacceptable to us. We suggested that it be reduced by about 15% the amount of funds the parties should receive. We agree that it should be transferred to the revenue side, i.e. tax revenues, the percentage on which the amount of funds the parties will receive is calculated, but we repeat, the intention of this law is not savings, is not savings, is not a greater reputation of political parties, nor is their better work. It intends to shut down political parties, such as the shut down media, such as no conditions for better business, such as reduced salaries and pensions. If you want our support for this law at the end of the discussion, consider our amendments, or accept them, and we will in that case support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13144	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13145	For starters, I would like to ask my dear colleague, Mr Đurisic, whether in this media darkness, which rules Serbia, and this media darkness is now being debated in the small House of National Assembly room in the presence of all representatives of written and electronic media, will it happen in this and such atmosphere and in this and such media darkness tonight be on the show "Yes, perhaps not" with my distinguished colleague, Aleksandr Martinovic? Is it media darkness when the opposition's representative, who complains about media darkness, participates in a public service show? I think it's a regular and normal presentation of your political views, representatives of the government and the opposition, but it's hypocritical to show up tonight and to appear on every possible television and to appear in all possible written media, and to whine in this room, but what's worst is that you use every opportunity to show up, and we were almost together in this House of the National Assembly when I was shocked by the outflow of untruth in the name of the alleged media darkness in which tonight Marko Djurisic will participate in the national frequency show. It's enough to say, even though you can't prove it, even though it's not there, but it's enough to say it. Like a matrix, like a brass box, we'll all talk about it. It doesn't matter what we're doing on national television tonight. It doesn't matter what Marko Djurisic will cross the spear with my esteemed colleague Martinovic, but it is important to say that there is media darkness in Serbia, the only darkness seen by individuals who have been tasked with talking about it as birds on the branch, although there is no such thing. This is proven by tonight's guesting. Tomorrow night, I'll be with a colleague of yours on a regional television set in Nis. Is that media dark? Isn't that right, academic? Isn't that right, buddy? That's right. Is that media dark? Let's talk once based on the facts, based on the truth, and not just say some things that have no connection and no basis in the truth. Nobleness, social responsibility. Yes, the SNS showed social responsibility and nobility when we received zero dinars from public finances from the budget. Don't talk to me, and don't tell the SNS how difficult it is with the funding that will be reduced to you compared to the time when you formed government and government and life in Serbia and when you only increased yourself. The Serbian Progressive Party has received zero dinars since its founding in 2008. We didn't complain, we didn't complain, but that's why we went to the Kingdom and with the resources of SNS members, with 33 million dinars, publicly, transparently shown, we made six houses, we helped 350 households. When we were carrying construction material and building houses in the King, you went to Vojvodina Development Bank and took the honorary word loans. What do we do with that? Was this speech sorry about that time? He's not coming back. Don't talk about pensioners, please. Don't talk about pensioners. Why were some things done a few weeks ago in this House? Why did we promise difficult and unpleasant things to the citizens in the election campaign? Because we knew about public finances, what the state of public finances was, what you left behind, how you put out the fire with gasoline, how you responded to the global economic crisis with new debts and new increases, and just to get some new elections, new support from pensioners and public sector employees. Now that you've led to this situation and this state of affairs in public finances, if we had continued the same way, with the same recipe, with your prescription, in 2017, these same pensioners wouldn't have received anything, not doctors, not pensioners, not teachers. No one would take anything because they'd be bankrupt. Unlike some other countries, Serbia would have no one to lean on. Unlike some other countries, which began to heal public finances in 2009, why you did not talk about Portugal, Spain, Ireland, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovenia, Greece. They've been cutting pensions between 12% and 15% linearly for all pensioners everywhere. We succeeded, this government of the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic, to preserve 61% of pensioners, not to diminish anything. Why don't you say that in the public sector in these countries, which has led to their budget deficits now 0.8%, they've cut wages between 20% and 30%. They're healed. We're not alchemists. We don't apply anything and we don't experiment on Serbian citizens. We apply what other countries applied in time, and they didn't wait and they didn't pour oil and gasoline on fire. The parties do not shut down or grow with money, especially not from public finances and the money of Serbian citizens. The parties grow and grow or disappear through the electoral will of Serbia's citizens and what they do and how they do. We had overpriced campaigns in March of this year, so these political options disappeared. We've had too many campaigns, and where are these people now? I'm willing to talk in the future about limiting the funds used for campaigns and I think it's part of some normal political communication that has to exist. You think this law on funding political activities is ideal? No, it's not. But these changes that we are making today and for which we will receive support on Saturday, all of them, and I continue to invite you not to blackmail the amendments, so that you do not blackmail them – if you reduce less, if you leave us more, we will support. We won't accept such amendments. We want him to stay in public finances and heal public finances, the ones you've made sick. After all, for funding, how much did four SDS MPs cost a few days ago and what price was received from Bojan Pajtic for the support of the government of Vojvodina? How much did it cost? Are they enough to rent some space and some life away? Do not hand over to the SNS that this space, political space, party space, which is so polluted, regrettable that the party's income cannot be transferred to the cost side of the budget, which you cannot, as you did in 2011, take money to fund political parties even from credit. Now you are blackmailing us. Come on, cut down, and we will support you. We're not going to cut down any less. We're going to cut the parties the most, but you have to say, and you have to be honest, it's being linearly reduced. As much as it shrinks your party, so does the SNS. It doesn't shrink anymore or less. And how many of you are here, or how many of us are here, determines the electoral will of the citizens, neither do you, Mr. Djurisic, nor do I. They determine people in the election because they judge who they trust. I call on you once again, as I did a few days ago, when we talked a lot less passionately and talked, that without that condition, whose account for this conditioning will be paid by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because I am not ready to talk in this way, I call on you once again to talk about the future, to talk about many changes and reforms of our political system that await us, and among other things, changes and some new and more quality law on funding of political activities and political parties, to talk in this way, to talk about it on the basis of facts. Because if we were to turn back now and look at how much money it is by means of a regulation that is not part of this law, how much, under the circumstances, "values" of an SNS MP and how many MPs of your parliamentary group - is not the same. You get more on the basis of an individual, based on a single MP. You get more. But it's not part of this law, it's part of some sublegal acts and how that money is arranged. And I guess we're the same before God and the people. And we're not complaining about it, and we're not talking about it, but we want to cut it linearly by more than 30% out of the political party budget, because we have public finances, because citizens are in such a situation to expect it, and they deserve it, after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13146	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13147	Dear counterpart, the European Commission gave an assessment of the media situation in Serbia. I did a little paraphrasing, I used the words used in politics, but on the fact that there are problems in achieving media freedoms, the European Commission clearly said, as the World Bank tells you that you have worsened, not improved business conditions. If your answer is that there are no problems in the media in Serbia, that I will be on one show today with your colleague sitting on your left, who was at the Public Service last week, and every day is there, and I will be today and who knows when again. That's what this is about. You can't give one show and say it – everything's fine, everything's fine, here we are tonight. Let your colleague remind you of what he said when this law was passed, about your party and about state officials, today the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. I don't want to discuss it that way and quote his words now. Don't provoke me. What I'm trying to tell you is that no one's blackmailing you. We tell you what we think is sustainable in this situation, in our opinion. On that basis, we will be defined as voting or not, at the end of the debate. As far as you're wrong, the fact that you just said that not by this law, but by something else, determines how much the party gets by the MP and that it's less worth the SNS MP in terms of the money being allocated from the budget, that we understand each other, from the MPs of our parliamentary group, which is the matter of this law. Read the law, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13148	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13149	Madam President, I'm not used to talking in the atmosphere of threats. Don't do that so I don't tell you anything, so tell me. By 2012 you worked, now you can talk. Say whatever you want. Don't let anything stay secret. Don't put it under the rug, but as representatives of the SNS, when we talk about the media in 2012, before the elections and by 2012, we were represented as much as you are now, where good luck comes from. In addition to RTS, we were banned from passing, let alone going inside and being on a show, both Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Vukic, about us being hierarchical under the party scale and not talking. Let's return that first half of 2012, how many times? In the pits. Zero. You want to talk about some other things that happened at the time? We want to talk about all the corporate losers that funded DS back then? We want to talk about some arrested donors? We want to talk about all the bids and jobs that DS finance got, at the time? You want to talk about how this 2011 million donation of DS was charged through land in Vojvodina, which was given to use? You want to talk about where all those people from the Development Bank ended up doing that? No problem, I'm in the mood, the SNS since its founding so far has no topic that can't be debated, no topic he can't talk about, no topic he'll put under the carpet and no action we've done without being ashamed of. On the contrary, we are proud that we are leading an honest policy and beyond the borders of this country, an honest policy and in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but don't threaten, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13150	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13151	Well, talking about you not being in the media, here's the president of your party, then in those difficult times for your party has just been on this show where tonight my colleague Martinovic and I will be, with me, a guest once. I don't generally follow that show and I didn't count how many times it was. I was once and he was once. So you can't say you couldn't get through, you were there. We can take to measure the times that parties had in the media in 2011, 2012, 2013 and today. I have no problem, I'm sure that statistics go in favor of the claim that the representatives of the opposition can't appear today, they can't appear anywhere. Since you said you wanted to talk about what used to be, I'll read it to you. One MP, he's somewhere near you, as he said in 2012. The Serbian Radical Party has been warning since 2008 that SNS, Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandr Vukic, is being financed by tycoons and mobsters. Today, that claim was confirmed. Dusan Stupar has been arrested for his participation in the big robbery of the Pancheva "Azotara". Dusan Stupar is not only a financier of Nikolic and Vukic, but he has agreed to use his business building in New Belgrade to use the headquarters of the so-called centre. Advanced parties. The Serbian Radical Party reminds Nikolic is in a coalition with Bogoljub Karic, a man he once accused of being Serbia's greatest criminal. We remind also that Stanko Subotic is also a great friend of Tomislav Nikolic. So it's a party that hasn't received a single dinar from the RS budget since 2008. It is absolute proof that SNS is a party that is financed in an absolutely illegal way, funded by tycoons, mobsters and criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13152	Thank you. The word has Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13153	The owner of the company "Metropolit" D.O.O., if you know that name, donated DS in 2012 to 400,000 dinars, Zarko Radonjic, under suspicion that the organiser of a criminal group that has damaged Serbia's 10m-euro budget by malfeasance of imports and customs goods. Do you know this Mr. Zarko Radonjic? A financial report published on its site said that on 3 May 2012, three days before the elections were held, Metropolis received a donation of 400,000 dinars from the company. The section marking the place states that Subotica, apart from donor headquarters, could indicate that the actual beneficiary of this donation was the DS Municipal Committee in Subotica, headed by Modest Dulic, the brother of former minister and MPs, Oliver Dulic. Do you know this? I'm not talking about things that are distrative, said in the heat of political struggle. I'm saying that you've been funded by people who have damaged Serbia's budget by 10m euros and have washed up in such a way that three days before the DS elections they paid 400,000 dinars and you said – thank you very much, they washed up. Do you want to talk, but I don't think we'll have time in this family, about all the companies that were losers, and they were paying millions of dollars in taxes, but that's why they didn't pay taxes?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13154	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13155	They didn't pay social and pension. They didn't pay their workers, but they donated DS. Let's move on. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13156	Time. I'm asking you to read so I can have a session... that there's something else to do. You have received the resignation of MP Bojan Ziric as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation has led to the case referred to in Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs and proposes that the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with this, and pursuant to Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on the Aministration and Immunity Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which it was elected to MP Bojan Ziric on the day of his resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. (Zoran Babic, from the place: "What about Zivkovic"? ) I received nothing from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs on the subject. Gordana Komic has the right to reply, first.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13157	Replica, just for a little while. Since there was an interesting debate between MP Marko Djurisic and MP Zoran Babic, if he wants to slow down some DS, I am available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13158	The word is Nenad Canak. Here you go. I have to give it to you because it's replicated by the DS, and you're not DS, and now it's not directly addressed to you. Here you go, Ambassador Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13159	Before I begin to talk about this law, the Honorable President, honourable Members of the People, I would just have to draw attention for a moment that dear colleague Babic said a sentence that, I must say, scared me because too many times in history has been used and nothing good has ever come out of it. The sentence is - political parties do not have support in society. This statement that political parties do not have support in society, I hope that a respected colleague wanted to say that the reputation of political parties has been violated, that something like that in the middle, not that political parties do not have the support of society, because if the sentence is literally true, then the distinguished colleague is losing sight of that political parties as part of society. So in that sense, it's not a matter of political parties, it's a matter of trust in the system. If trust in the system is broken, then you start pulling different ominous parallels. I'll read you a piece of a historical document that was made when it came to political parties having no support in society. The expectation of the people, the document says, that the evolution of our internal political life will bring about an arrangement and consolidation of opportunities in the country did not come true. The parliamentary order and all our political life are getting an increasingly negative mark, from which the people and the states have nothing but damage. All useful institutions in our country, their progress and the development of our entire people's life have been put at risk. Parliamentaryism has blinded political passions, has begun to abuse to the extent that it has become an obstacle to every fruitful work in the country. Griefs and events in the National Assembly have wavered the people’s faith in the usefulness of that institution. Agreements, including the most ordinary relationship between parties and people, have become absolutely impossible. You are looking for a cure for this evil in the current parliamentary changes to the government or in the new legislative elections would mean wasting valuable time on the vain attempts that have taken us several years. For those who took a slightly weaker course in history, this is the wording of the "published" which began the six-year dictatorship of King Alexander, which was abolished by parliament, and the Constitution and the laws began to be adopted by dictatorship. I'm talking about the next one, not because I'm trying to pull parallels between what my dear colleague Babic said and this one said, but because one thing leads to another. We're talking about savings here and of course a country that doesn't seriously think about its finances completely forgets to think about its future. Let's see, since I'm an economist, about numbers. We're talking about 1,900,000 dinars, as foreseen by the budget for political parties, that's one figure that's quite large. Some say it's so big because this year's election costs went into it, and the real figure is about 1,100,000, but make it 1,900,000. If all the money, the 1,900,000 dinars were to be distributed to pensioners in this country with 1,700,000, every pensioner in this country would get 1,117 dinars a year or 93 dinars a month or get, if your proposal passes, 31 dinars a month, which makes up 600 grams of bread or 20 grams of bread a day. That's what savings would be if we talked about pensioners. So it's not any kind of material savings. So it's nothing serious at the level of some new schools, hospitals, theaters or something. The intention of this is much different, at least that's what it looks like to me, because I have to draw attention to the fact that members of the 16th and 20th of this bill speak of putting the tax revenues of Serbia's budget as a basis for something like this instead of expenditure. I don't mind, what's more, it's more than fair. There is a small problem in this, the Autonomous province of Vojvodina also needs to finance its political life, and it does not have tax revenues. Thus, since there is no tax revenue, it cannot finance its political life. To a large extent, local self-government can't do it either. This brings us to the conclusion that practically political life can only take place at the level of the Republic of Serbia and is reduced, not by a third, but by half of the current powers. It has long been known that if civil servants are not rewarded with serious money, they are subject to corruption, as on the other hand they must stand for serious penalties for corruption itself. We came in a position, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, to have here a type of pulsism, which, for example, was spoken by Adolf Hitler, who spoke to the MPs as someone who...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13160	Please, Mr. Chanak, please, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13161	What are you asking me to do? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13162	Bring your discussion closer to the bill and don't mention such sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13163	Why shouldn't I mention it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13164	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13165	Why shouldn't I mention it?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13166	With all due respect, I don't want to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13167	For what? I'm talking about historical literature because we have some things to talk about if we don't want it to happen again and that's why I'm saying that Adolf Hitler...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13168	Are you saying that something like that that happened in the past could happen in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13170	Please don't make this tall home...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13171	National socialism can happen in any country, it's a disease.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13172	I beg you, I don't want to replicate with you, but I ask you to respect this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13173	Okay, so the "Mein Kampfu" mentions parliament as a place where parliamentary caterpillars don't do anything except make plots and parliamentaryism the greatest evil of society. That is why Nazi Germany first abolished parliament. I am talking about the need to protect this high house, the protection of parliamentaryism, the protection of democracy in Serbia, which is based on democratic parties. Democraticly, that's where I mean all the parties that are in this assembly of the National Assembly. That is why it is very important to have the awareness that if the state is being fenced by parties as one who is a single part that manipulates society, not a part that represents the interests of individual segments of society, we will be in a position for democracy to begin to die. The dying of democracy will lead to parliament becoming, unfortunately, only a voting machine for the executive's decision-making, we will come to the point that, step by step, the question of how much this assembly costs, how much this session costs, so we would see that this session costs so much that in just a month's session all of what we're saying could be saved. Well, if we move forward with the logic of saving, we'll get to it -- why treat incurable patients, why support those who no longer contribute? It's a natural trail of things. The measure of one society's democracy is a measure of mutual solidarity and must not be forgotten. In that light, I was talking about "Mein Kampf", not in anyone else. So, I want to say this, it has to be taken into account whether these three and a half million euros, which we are talking about here at all, in conditions where we were just said that only from one businessman was charged eight million euros in taxes, should we consider what this essentially means. On the other hand, taking care of political parties is not only a concern through money, there are indirect donations. Indirect givings are, say, ensuring guaranteed time in the state media. This would greatly mitigate the consequences of, say, the reduction in the jurisdiction of political parties, but this is not discussed. You don't talk about anything we're more than open to. Let's talk about how to make a sustainable political system. Someone mentioned it was immoral that with 6% of the DS government in Vojvodina. I've said it many times, and I repeat, it's illegal, but it's legal. In the 2012 elections, DS received 21% of the votes, and with all coalition partners, it had over 40% of the votes in Vojvodina. There was legitimacy back then, now he's gone, but there's legality. In order to call an AP Vojvodina election, there is a procedure for how it is done and I believe that this procedure will be respected, and there is the whole story. If we skip the procedure, if everything comes down to mutual conflict, without the willingness to listen, if we're talking about buying or selling MPs, which I'm terrified of, and at the same time when it comes to the transfer of power, then suddenly everyone's happy, because it's pretty normal, because it's about, my God, better functioning of society. Well, no, it's all the same thing, the same thing that got into the roots and foundations of this society because political parties are held accountable, and they don't have the authority to allow lawmakers to act immorally in front of the voters who chose them. That's exactly the point. So when I talk about all this, the concrete objections to the law we're talking about here are that the AP Vojvodina has no tax revenue, but only transfer funds. It is very important, we have given the amendment to this subject, to take this into account and to find a way and how the AP Vojvodina will be able to finance itself, in terms of its political system in the part of the political system of the total Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, the question of whether centralisation is what leads the country to further instability, because where there is no political decision, where there is no political life, there is no job and therefore there is a huge pressure on moving to Belgrade, and there is an empty whole of Serbia, and especially its southeast part, and we all know that. How do you think that's gonna end if people don't get a chance to decide where they live anyway? That's not possible. That is why I think it is possible to make a clear political consensus in this House on how to get the country out of this situation. For example, many times pensioners are mentioned, so here and now, pensioners are mentioned in this story, although I have mathematically shown you that the question of 30 dinars per month, even if all these funds were retired, not in schools, hospitals or theatres, as the esteemed counterpart Babic said. So it's not a question I don't know what money is, it's something else. Let's see if we need democracy in this country or not. The sea of blood has been shed to get to this, to get to the point where we can sit in one room, talk, negotiate, and have a country in which we all try to work. That's exactly why I'm going to repeat, I think it takes care that political parties are part of the population, and they're not some isolated mechanism of robbery, corruption, to protect this higher home from attacks that are everyday, but it's not an attack on any of the MPs, it's an attack on the parliamentarian institution. These endless discussions, these endless bickerings, lead only to people asking – why did we send you here? These 30 dinars a month aren't the price someone's willing to pay, unprepared for representing his interests, but he's not willing to pay if it's only for being here forever to discuss who's who, what, when in the past he said. That's why I'm saying, we've given, like LSDV, two amendments, which I'm going to talk about when they're on the agenda, which I think this law can be fixed, and then when we talk about these amendments, we're going to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13174	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The word is proposed by MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13175	I thank you, Mr. Becic. Honorable counterpart Canak is rarely in parliament, so likely to wish for debate, but in any case, I am always very happy and carefully listening to what he says. What I'd like and what I'd like to talk about, I'm sorry, Mr. Canak, if you misunderstood me, or if I may have misread it. It is frustrating, and I have talked about it many times in parliament, when you look at research, so when you look at that little more than 3% of Serbian citizens believe that MPs are not corrupt, and slightly more than 30% think that MPs are extremely corrupt. And today we have an interesting tweet, and I don't want to name it, which he said -- how much today is a kilo of live parliamentary scales? And that's legitimate. You'll get a bunch of positive comments and a bunch of pluses on that. You know what's measured by a live scale and how much it costs. When a former chief advisor of the former president of the state says that to you, hidden somewhere behind the safe walls of a salon apartment, or who knows where, where he can't debate, where they can't face opinions, where we can't look ourselves in the eye, it's scary. It's terrible when you go to work in the morning and I count, and I'm counting today -- one, two, three, and I say, this man thinks I'm corrupt, four, five -- and this neighbor thinks I'm corrupt, but that's a fact. I agree with you when you say that we are in this kind of debate and that we are constantly looking for points of separation constantly promoting how different we are and that by being different we will be able to run to citizens in different ways. Why don't we turn that wheel over once? Why aren't we looking for the similarities of all our policies? There won't be many such points, but these points where our policies will be unique and equal, these are the most stable points in our society. Because the ordinary citizen watching today's show will say, well, these advances save, 30 dinars per pensioner, better 30 dinars per pensioner than millions in parties, but they'll say, well, there are some out there on the other side that, if I give them a chance, they'll increase again. Let's look for the points of merger. Let's make a deal. Let's say -- these are the most stable, unchangeable points in one society. But it takes a lot of good faith, a lot of thinking about the future, not thinking about quotas, contingents, percentages, and whether those 6% are going to sink or whether it's already gone down. You were also talking about the atmosphere in our society and the relationship of our society to Parliament. I can sign those lines that you have spoken, but I will ask you a question, and I will ask myself, and I will ask others, who has made such an atmosphere? Why did such an atmosphere occur in our society? Why by 2012, did we have a kind of parliamentary monarchy of a monarch who was everything? We had one president of the state who had to be both the president of the state and the Prime Minister, so he chose the most incompetent for the Prime Minister, just so no one would overshadow him, so the topics from parliament had to be, not which laws we passed, not what we do, not the openness of Parliament, the topics were written from the assembly parking -- which we drive cars, and from a congregation restaurant. These are the topics from Parliament. When did he say these things? Who ordered these topics? These journalists who are pressured by their duties and editors? No, they're honest and honest about their work, from whatever it is they're redecorating. It's been ordered to tear down everything to survive a monarch. If you wonder where such an atmosphere in our society comes from, it dates back to the time of monarch Boris Tadic, one of the most beautiful, unique. We're all on tape, variable, passable. It's no problem for me to be variable and fleeting, and I am, like every man, but the problem is that the institution I currently belong to is being destroyed and humiliated by all of us. That is why I am for the introduction and codes of conduct of the MPs, but I see that again some have been understood and accepted, and even without the presence of the last working groups, where there is a reason why they will not vote or attack such a document. Because I think it's bad when in the National Assembly, she's wrapped her shoe with water and voice from Bodrum, because the actors ended up either in court or in political retirement and history, except for one who has six percent power. As you say, it's not legitimate, but it is legal. I agree, but if that legality is bought, it gets a transge-frange policy, as Marko Atlagic said, and only at that point does it connect DS and SRS or other ones, then I don't see the legality that you're talking about. There's a lot of work ahead of us. Unfortunately, there is no communication. Unfortunately, there is hatred. When there is hatred, then communication is gone, then no deal, then progress is gone. I'd much prefer it if it were behind some of the parliamentary laws that we've passed here in this assembly that cost 249 MPs, signatures. I didn't get any valid reasons why the other signatures didn't stop. I didn't win, but they didn't stop. A given hand by the SNS for a deal, for a proper political scene, exists. There's a wish. But if he returns to that hand with a slap, by constantly inventing media darkness, by companies, by the joy of ending up on the back of someone's brother, by tweets from a former president of the state who reads -- how much today costs a kilo of live parliamentary scales, what do we expect? What kind of communication can we expect? I think we've come out of the realm of the law. I'm sure those 30 dinars, as you've calculated, or a little more for those who have less than 25,000, whose pensions won't be reduced, those 30 will turn into 100 dinars. Maybe it's someone's loaf of bread and a liter of milk. Maybe it's someone's life that day. Many in Serbia are missing the 100 dinars today. Are the political parties missing? Is it better if those 100 dinars end up like a square centimeter of billboard in Belgrade or somewhere along the highway, or in a pensioner's plate? Call me a populist, call me whatever you want, but I'll rather be that 100 dinars or 30 dinars, no matter how many dinars, instead of billboards, instead of posters that are going to rain first, to end up on the table and in the plate, all the more than a plate, unfortunately, pensioners, unemployed in Serbia, in kindergartens, anywhere else. The road is paved by desire for great steps. It's a seven-mile walk. Those steps, unfortunately, are only in fairy tales. Serbia is walking. Serbia must step, small or larger steps. He must walk, even when he dreams, even when he sleeps, even at night, there's no time to stop. That is why this is one step, and I did not present it as a step of seven miles, but I presented it as one of the steps that will settle public finances, which will allow Serbian citizens more, and of course less for parliamentary groups and political parties, at the time when the SNS is the largest, of course, linearly reducing everyone equally and nominally the SNS most. And we're not gonna regret it, we're proud of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13176	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Canak, I have listened carefully to Mr. Babic's speech and at no time in his speech you are not on any immoral or... I'm sorry, just let me. So, in no way did he mention you in any negative context, but since you are rarely in parliament, I am very happy to give you the opportunity to replicate, and Mr. Djurisic for you I have no basis for replicating you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: He spoke of Mr Tadic directly, negatively. Then all right, you'll get the word, Mr. Djurisic. Now the word has been made by the People's Messenger Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13177	Good, 'cause now I can talk or I can't?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13178	I gave you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13179	Oh, can I talk about anything?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13180	I'd just like to ask you to respect this tall home.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13181	I don't know because I'd start so there wouldn't be a misunderstanding about it. Since you've repeated yourself and said that I'm rarely in parliament, and I see that this is a subject, just to be clear, one thing, when I became a MP, I didn't say anywhere that I'd be sitting here every time I had to listen, but I'd come when I had something to say, and I could listen at home, so I wouldn't charge travel expenses. So we don't want to discuss it anymore. I just wanted to ask my esteemed colleague Babic, I'm terrified of the idea that there's been a purchase of MPs in the duchy parliament, and if we get proof that it really was LSV, of course, it's going to leave the majority, because that's the way we simply won't work. We feel it is immoral even when someone leaves an MP's group to take a mandate with him. I am proud to say that even the members of the LSV when they left the party and moved on to another party were returning both mandates and republican, and parliamentary, and I am particularly proud of that. These are things that are part of an elementary relationship that should rule among people who want to live in a normal state. That is why to your question – why is society like this, let us use the old Roman questionbook “cui bono”, so to whom does it suit? It corresponds to parts of the estranged executive authority that have not been reformed. King Boris Tadic, as you called him, is not the first king to appear here, was king before him. Let us remember that Slobodan Milosevic made parliament his own establishment, including many others. And if he had made the stand of Slobodan Milosevic the best says that I was for no reason, I was taken from office only because I tried to speak in that same parliament and that years later, the court turned me down, of course, when the term passed. What do I mean? I think we should make sure that the question is how much does a kilo of living scale MPs cost, a question that is so offensive. If I personally think we need to understand each other, it's not a question of anyone personal, it's a question of this Parliament. This parliament must defend itself and it must be defended by everyone, because if we do not have this parliament, I would not like decisions to be made in Duma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13182	Thank you, Mr. Canak. I apologize if you understand that in some other context, I have said that you are rarely in parliament. I think it's just to appreciate it, and because we have examples of some MPs that we're giving a word when we shouldn't, I said that in Mr Babic's speech, maybe I shouldn't give you a replica, but because we're always happy to see you here in Parliament, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13183	Anyway, thanks.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13184	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The word has been given by a National MP, a representative of Proposer Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13185	I support Mr. Canak, and that's why you got a round of applause from the SNS parliamentary group, and I support your announcement that you will leave the coalition at the province level. I believe that it will be seen by the investigation of the competent state authorities, and although it is not seen, there will be some next assembly, some next trade, so it will be obvious to you that most of the 63 province MPs are scolded, I can't say on the muscles, but on the Euros, yes. One thing I'm going to suggest to you is that I may have made a mistake. The king is too little, what was from 2000 until 2012 let's not insult Boris Tadic, he was the emperor. You know, the king is too little to be offended. One more thing whose address I see clearly and clearly in mind, that when an MP leaves the parliamentary group to return the mandate is his personal matter, the law says otherwise. The law that has passed the second parliamentary, second parliamentary majority, the SNS respects it, because I think it is part of the European agenda, which is that the MP is the owner of his mandate and that he can do whatever he wants with it. So I think that promoting some other values, if they are not personal, are facing the law and are facing this European fluid.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13186	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13187	I'll just say one sentence. You're absolutely right that by law, and by morality, it's different. That's exactly why I said that Bojan Pajtic is the legitimate Prime Minister of Vojvodina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13188	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13189	I don't know if and when Boris Tadic was king, he became emperor, but today it seems to me that the Serbian ruler of the world, the almighty, the unmistakable, the only one, is unrepeated. The moment someone says something and suspects this uniqueness and unrepeatedness, if they do it in some public appearance, the media's whole force falls under the control of this government, and the show, if it's any kind of show, magically disappears from the ether. It's a state of mind in Serbia today. While during that king and emperor you speak of could freely be criticised as much as there was space. Whether it was ideal – it wasn't. I agree with you. Whether there were abuses then and attacks on this parliament – there was. In my presentation, I was talking about exactly how this whole law was prepared here by launching an attack on how the parties would get more, not less. That's what no one wanted to say, not even the Prime Minister. In the end, I welcome this principle of SNS that where there are purchases of MPs, it should be out of power. And I urge you, in every municipality and city where there has been the purchase of councilmen during the transfer, to step out of that power immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13190	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. It was these days that he went out to "The Forbes Magazine" who are the rulers of the world. I'm sure they don't rule Serbia. Thank you. The word is proposed by MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13191	I'm sorry the previous speaker didn't follow closely during today's session. I, in the light of the parliamentary question today, asked Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic about the suspicion of buying parliamentary mandates during the reconstruction of the government of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. I wish that what you just said, where possibly the SNS involved in such things, I would like you to say it publicly, because if you think that any crime has been committed anywhere, the cover-up of the crime is also a crime. So don't wave at empty papers and empty stuff, because that's just the sort of thing, and I think the answer to that kind of thing will best give you, that you've listened more carefully, Mr. Chanka. It is one thing when parliamentary majority and parliamentary groups or committee groups are agreed, is one thing when one coalition is made, it transmuts how it is modern and coined it is, it is quite democratic and normal, if it is transmuted on the basis of the programme, not on the basis of the quota and contingents, and the chair of directors or any other, but it is bad when all the diversity of political, all the intercompatible, and when DS legalises its co-operation and coalition with the SRS, but just as much as it is necessary for the majority and for the survival of Bojan Pajtic with 6% support of the people of Vojvodina. It's a crime, it's bad, and that's why I'm calling on the investigative authorities to give their own judgment on whether there was any receiving or taking bribes in Vojvodina a few days ago or whether it would be for any next decision. That when it is insulted, the reconstruction is not completed, will go with the next decision, with the next thing that will go to the AP Vojvodina Assembly, how slow will the Assembly be, how slow will decisions be slowed if every decision is being traded around and what means are they trading, what trade with, how much will the citizens of Vojvodina suffer in this way? I don't have a problem with the individual who's in power. How effective is this self-government or the administration of the AP Vojvodina? If you have to break up with your own and buy others first and convince a third, do the people of Vojvodina have time for such a thing? They don't. That's why I think Bojan Pajtic is neither legal nor legitimately headed by the AP Vojvodina government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13192	Thank you, Mr. Babic. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill is certainly in the spirit of rationalising public costs as well as earlier draft laws, and there is not much room for conflict, or we have different opinions. Of course, yes and the principle of proportionality is, in my view, fairer than any other principle, with the principle of proportionality and pro-proportional reduction, in this case certainly more affected the smaller sides, in this case the minority party and we had quite a debate about it, when the current Law on the financing of political activities was adopted, which quite reduced funding opportunities, both regular actions, as campaigns for elections, when it comes to national minorities. In this case, I mean those who are parliamentary. You are aware that in earlier, two calls or three, there were two Roma representatives here in this House in front of their parties, and we do not have more representatives in front of the Roma parties. In the previous, earlier years, in 2012, it could have been easy not to be a representative of Albanians, because even in spite of the 2007 law, when so-called. The natural threshold, which gave room for individual minorities through their political parties to be represented, primarily Hungarians who are the most numerous, Bosniaks, and then Roma and Albanians, were, as you know, professionally represented on the basis of numbers, but with a very fragile basis, a very sensitive situation, that they could easily remain without representatives. It is, of course, more difficult to organise minorities to be represented in the central parliament. This is uniquely solved, before 0.15%, now 0, proposed 105, at the bar, I think it's quite symbolic. When it comes to parties that compete and enter the election campaign for local elections, especially in undeveloped municipalities, take there, from 200 to 300 million, so let it be up to 500, 0.1% is around 500,000, and those 0.15 million, when you divide into five, six of these local parties in that local self-government, it is quite symbolic, both for regular action and for pre-election campaign funds. It is known what happened at the bar, such as what is central, that sponsors, at the central level, play the main role, are "tycoons", the term is used in public. Of course, the basic idea is to invest in the parties without paying for that investment, not to be paid for, but to be known after multiple gains based on that investment they have, and in the bar I say, when they have to support a particular group, a particular party, to win the elections, then through the tender it is known how many times more they return on the basis of that investment they made. When it comes to the central level, I'm saying that such an interest, but absolutely not. I believe it is the same in other minorities, that in the event that one minority representative is on several occasions opposition, there is no possibility of being part of the majority, then there is absolutely no interest in any of these sponsors in the bar financing a party that wants to be parliamentary. Clearly, why would he if he didn't have any influence in the central executive power? That's why it happened that the Roma had two, so now they've lost none, Albanians can remain, too, without any of them, that's probably for all the other minorities, let's say, except Hungarians, who, with six representatives here, are present and represent a serious political force at the state level, and Bosniaks are there, all others are, in some sense, in that situation that they can be, easily and disappear from this parliament, that there are no minorities in that case at all, the vast majority remain without representation. In this direction, I think that what we had in Article 17, which I was at the time disputed, in Section 2, was in some sense to replace that positive discrimination that we had in the earlier law. The 2nd position said that the 1.5 coefficient would be applied not only to minorities but to the number of votes of all parliamentary parties up to 5%. They are reinforced by the 1.5 coefficient and above that the coefficient 1 applies, which means that it is not only specific to minority parties, but entirely to all parliamentary parties. In that sense, perhaps in this situation, when half-financing of all parliamentary parties, which will be more specific and more difficult to reflect on minority parties, could now be considered, if it is not possible in that Article 17 which is not part of this amendment and supplement, then this possibility is based on the amendments that our group has made with, let me say, not all of our proposal to adopt, but should be seen which coefficient would mitigate this drastic reduction that will come and which will put a truly ungrateful position on all parties representing minorities. I'd just like to add the part about campaign financing. So imagine, as long as the legal solution is in place that minority parties must provide 10,000 signatures, judicially certified signatures, it will be a very huge job to be done in the case of Albanians in just two municipalities. Imagine from almost all of our voters, we must twice, one time when they vote and before that they must publicly, from the court's verifyer, give a vote through the signature which, of course, requires quite a bit of cost again. These are some of the details that I considered important to say that by the voting day, it would have given more serious consideration in order to achieve fairer solutions that would correspond to the political parties representing minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13194	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13195	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, SVM MPs welcomed and supported the adoption of a new law on funding political activities just over three years ago. We were also involved in the work of a wider working group that was really, during 2010, very studioy and often meeting and working on lawmaking. Then the draft went to the then RS government and waited a few months until he came into the assembly procedure and we must stress that there are parts that the working group did not propose, but that was the law at that time, but since that was the political will and that was the government's proposal, we supported it. Why is it important that we have a good law on the financing of political parties, as it used to be called, or on the financing of political activities as it is today? It is extremely important that the financing of political entities is transparent and that the control of it is better. Of course, you will agree that the common goal of all of us should be to develop a multi-party, parliamentaryism of the political system. Why the difference in the names of those laws? Because the Law on the financing of political activities regulates not only the financing of political parties but also political entities. So it could be groups of citizens, coalitions, etc. We have to split up first. There is a funding of regular work and funding of the election campaign. When we talk about funding regular work from public sources, this applies to those parliamentary parties that have their representatives here in the NSRS, as well as the AP Vojvodina Assembly and the local self-government units. The second part of the law regulates the financing of the election campaign, these various political entities at all levels. The 2010 law has brought major newspapers and changes to the previous law. Let me get this straight for the public. Under the current law on whose amendments and additions we are discussing today, the financing of regular work, these famous mentioned 0.15% of the budget for regular work, was previously divided by linear division, which means that 30% of the funds were distributed evenly, to all political parties who had representatives in the selected bodies, and 70% of the funds were previously shared on the basis of the number of mandates won. According to the new, currently in force Law on the financing of political activities, since its implementation, after 2011, 2012 the funding of regular work is done no longer on the basis of the number of mandates won, but on the basis of the number of votes won in the elections that we certainly support. So, linear division has been abolished and SVM MPs feel it is much fairer that political entities, political parties, are rewarded on the basis of how their list went through the elections and not on the basis that someone within the coalition manages to enter parliament, so they all count as special antibodies. We remember in the earlier period, many had only one MP and entered large lists and received almost the same money as those parties who went out on their own and had two or three MPs. It was a very small difference. From the respected previous speaker, we have heard about the specificities of organising smaller parties, let's say the parties of national minorities, and I would like, as an SVM MP and a member of the national minority party, to point out that it is a different organisation, it is different to going to elections and participating in the election race for national minorities and different to those who may have entered this parliament just because they were on the list of some major coalitions. On the basis of these changes, it was decided that these parties would receive money under a coalition agreement, which is also good, since 2011, so far public sources have been shared on the basis of a coalition agreement. There is another, if I may put it this way, a toothpick also spoken of by a respected previous speaker who may have been badly interpreted at the time of 2011 when we passed a new law, that the number of votes won by a coefficient of 1.5. We talked about it being a positive discrimination, but the number of votes that are multiplied by a coefficient is not, it's not exclusively about the parties of national minorities, it's about all parties. So the number of votes to 5% is multiplied by a coefficient of 1.5 and further by just a coefficient of 1. So, what's changing now? The current law states that in the case of regular work, 0.15% of the expenditure foreign budget goes to finance from public sources. Now, the number 0.15 to a zero point ten and a half, which is logical and we certainly support when we talk about saving us from these levels, and these changes are actually proposed precisely because budget cuts are smaller, that we all bear the burden of the crisis evenly, but it is also changed that this percentage no longer applies to the expenditure side of the budget, but also to tax revenues, which is also important because it is not logical to include the deficit, losses and debt of the state precisely due to the stability of public finances, thus and macroeconomic stability. So that's the part that relates to the regular financing of the work of political entities, and the part relating to the financing of the election campaign is also changing. It is currently envisioned by the law that 0.1% of expenditure foreign budgets are used to fund the election campaign. Now this percentage decreases from 0.1% to 0.07% and in this case changes the expenditure side of the budget to tax revenues. Just to define and specify which numbers we are talking about, since several figures are mentioned here today from both the rebalancing and the 2014 budget, it is true that we recently adopted the rebalancing and that it now says that 1.9 billion dinars are scheduled for the financing of political parties, but of this amount almost 800 million relate to the financing of the election campaign. So, as far as regular work is concerned, this amount of rebalancing is 1.14 billion right now. Before the rebalancing, in the previous budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014, it was 1,203,000 dinars. So he's already down. Now, as we vote these proposed amendments in a few days and the law comes into force, instead of 1.14 billion, this amount will be 797 million. Indeed, when you calculate the number of votes won in the last mid-March elections this year, when you apply the coefficient and multiply the number of votes below 5% by 1.5 and when you calculate how many individual parties are now receiving money and by new mathematics you calculate how much money they will receive, the difference is about 30%. I stress this because they are certain that, when it comes to, let's say, the parties of national minorities, which are smaller, that this amount is greater and that the functioning will be ambiguous. It's impossible that the reduction is 55%, 60%. So it's not like that. The reduction for regular work is, when calculated, about 30%. Of course I'm talking about those that are funded under the coalition agreement. I'm mostly based on the funding of the regular work of the national minority parties. In the day of voting, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians will support these changes and additions first because we support the reduction of this imposition and, more logically, that instead of the expenditure side of the budget, we are looking at tax revenues. I must stress that already earlier the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia has been amended and that these changes have already occurred in that law and when you look at the detailed rebalancing, which we have recently adopted, the 2014 budget, is already in those figures, when you see within the Ministry of Finance how much it is foreseen for the financing of political parties, tax revenues, at least as far as the budget of the Republic of Serbia is concerned. So, by that percentage, earlier, there are multiple tax revenues, not expenditures, but now what I think is also important to mention, which only one previous speaker today spoke about was the electoral guarantee, because in the opening statement I mentioned that there were quite a number of major changes in 2011, when a new Law on financing of political activities was adopted. What's an election guarantee, why it's good and why it can cause complications during the campaign, we've all probably experienced in the past few years. We've had campaigns on several levels. So one of the biggest newspapers is the introduction of an electoral guarantee. Election guarantee can be given in the form of cash, bank guarantees, securities of value or mortgage on immovable property. The electoral guarantee is necessary in case someone participates in the elections and wants to use money from public sources, the budget must be in the same amount to hand over the electoral guarantee and the condition is that the voter wins a minimum 1% of the votes, or if we talk about the parties of national minorities, to win a minimum of 0.2% of the votes so that he doesn't have to pay back the money. If the participants in the election do not win that minimum number of votes, they must return the money they took from the budget, which we certainly welcome and what is good. If he is unable to repay that money, then he is charged precisely from this kind of guarantee of that electoral guarantee. Why is that good and why am I stressing it now? Let's just remember perhaps a little further from the past, when there were very many participants in the parliamentary elections, which won very few votes after the polls closed and the vote counted. Some have barely won 10,000 votes, as long as it takes to hand over the list. They were all taking money from the budget, having such a campaign. It's a good thing the introduction of this electoral guarantee prevented it. There are fewer participants now. There are some who participate, and they are aware that they find it difficult to win 1% of the vote. They don't take money from the budget now, for example. What is more important about regulating the area of funding the work of political parties, both regular work and election campaigns? Immediately after the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Control Agency Act, the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has moved on to this Anti-Corruption Agency and, as we all testify and see from practice, it is precisely by adopting this law that the Anti-Corruption Agency controls financing and can express the warning measures to the political entity if it finds in the control process that there have been some irregularities in financing. There is even the possibility that, until the end of a judicial or criminal or criminal proceedings, the transfer of funds from public sources may be reduced or completely suspended at a certain percentage. It is significant that political entities have an obligation to submit an annual financial plan, i.e. an annual report by April of next year to the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is obliged to publish the report on its website. Earlier there was also a obligation to publish it in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Now these changes and additions are proposed to erase it. In the event of an election campaign, political entities participating in the elections also have an obligation to submit their report to the Agency on time and the Agency, too, to publish the report on its website. These changes and additions change the deadline for the adoption of the content act, which should look like a report on the cost of the election campaign and prevents the act from changing during the campaign itself, which occurred in the past, making it difficult to draw up the report. The parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians finds it extremely important that the financing of political activities, i.e. political parties, political entities, be transparent and accessible to the public. It wouldn't be good for the public to keep saying that funding regular work, so as it participates in the campaign, it's classified. It is important that both voters, both membership and all citizens have insight into party financing. We support these changes. In voting day, you can count on our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13196	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. The word has a folk MP Gordana Comic as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13197	Thank you. I will share my time as the authorised representative of the Democratic Party in this part of the session by talking in ten minutes about the area of which the amendment of the law is before us, then about the shortcomings and then about the context that will arise if, without any amendments, this bill is adopted in the voting day. So, where's the surface and sloppy first, and then where's the missing one? The surface and sloppyness can be easily read when the reasoning of the law is read. It can be said that the argument will not take effect, that the argument does not refer to anything important in the procedure. Then I answer, so why do you write it, if it is irrelevant? When you write it, why don't you read it? That surface and sloppyness I read in the explanation is a signal to me and a paradigm that everything else was done superficially and sloppyly. Every part of the argument is about the draft law. In every part of the argument he's calling, it's about the draft law. The draft law cannot be in the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia not only because it is banned by uniform methodological rules or by a resolution on legislative activity, but by what it cannot. If, at the level of reasoning, no one makes an effort to read the draft, not write the proposal, then I have developed a reasonable doubt that everything else has been done equally superficially and sloppyly. This surface and sloppyness continue in the writings of members of the law. Article 5 of the Amendment and addition of the Law on the financing of political activities reads - Article 24 paragraph 3: "from private sources" is deleted. In the basic text of the applicable law, the position of Article 3 of the 24rd reads – All funds intended to finance the election campaign shall be paid to the account referred to in Article 1(1) and any payment of the costs of the election campaign shall be made from that account. In paragraph 3, there are no words – from private sources, which should be deleted. Those words are contained in paragraph 4. How is it called, in the explanation, for Article 24 of the Basic Law to be written in the draft, Section 4? If you have not already submitted an amendment to this law, hurry with the Committee, because in the position of 3rd words – from private sources, listed in Article 5, where they are to be changed, there is no. The surface and sloppyness of such, all of us who have worked long enough in the Assembly know, the removable details, can go along with the arguments that the subject is unknown, that for some unknown reasons the law must be passed, that it is very much rushed, but cannot possibly go along with the authoritative presentation of the text of this law as an excellently done, which will produce many good consequences, because none will. You don't have to correct the explanation. To all those who care whether they write a bill or a bill, I suppose it is without a procedure to change the reasoning, but I ask you to look at Article 24, which you are changing from private sources to Article 5 of the amendment. This amount of explanation that these were all printing mistakes and that there were no thin arguments, as well as many things that were said here in the argument of changes and additions of this law, because before all of us this summer there was a real draft, which was done by the Ministry of Finance, where in 23 members the Law on the financing of political parties was changed. Something from this draft, which has passed a public debate and is truly grateful for the text for the debate and in the future, was included in the proposal that is ahead of us, something is not, and with the famous intellectual copy-paisy technique there has been a confusion of various species and I ask you to correct them. What is it that's not superficial and sloppy, which isn't a clamper, it doesn't matter what it says, I know what I have to say, and this is how we vote it, so not that style in the draft of this law, but what is the lack of this law? The lack of this law does not stand at a percentage which may be the subject of conversation, can be subject to agreement with us as well. Therefore, it consists of the provision that the word – expenditure in members, is replaced by the words – tax revenues. A member in which you change the word expenditure in the current law, which refers to 0.15% of budget revenue, you change budget expenditure not to income, but to – tax revenues. However, in these few members, you are concerned with funding political activities both at the republican level and at the local level. I most kindly ask to be defined by the province's tax revenues, since it's the subject of a 25-year dispute in this country, because no one can say what tax revenues are to the province. If there is an argument that this is one way or another of the tax revenues that are by law the tax revenue of the Republic, then the total creamy surface and sloppyness is still increasing, since it cannot, even under the Budgetary System Act, be changed. So, I would like to ask the Proposer for a clear answer on the tax income list of the province of Vojvodina. Whether or not it's enough, I'm not getting into it. This is a systemic error, a systemic flaw in the law, because it was meant to be said a word - tax, unnecessary. If only you had left – income, it would have come down to revenues that could be estimated in accordance with the Budgetary System Act. The problem is that it is a poorly translated draft law that the government had this summer and that has never passed a vote in the government, and has not been available in the procedure of the MPs. Another serious lack of this law is that the funds, even if you find the tax revenues of Vojvodina, will cause quite joy and living in many other sectors dealing with tax revenues, that the funds are intended for regular activities, i.e. For the regular lives of political parties, they can also be used for election campaigns. Two bad things arise under this law. The first one is a legitimate, liquid, continuous election campaign. No matter how much money you have or no money, you have an election campaign all year round, and no election scheduled, it's not good, that atmosphere isn't good for anyone, and now it's becoming possible. Another detail is that if you say that funds for regular funding can be used in election campaigns, then it becomes a pointless provision highly assessed in the existing law, that all participants, when elections are held, have equal starting conditions because of the game and that only after they get a certain number of votes, then the money from the budget is distributed further. The problem is, and the solution to separate regular funding for the regular activities of political parties is good and it is not good to stand up to this lack, because it will be only common damage. Another drawback that greatly increases the surface and sloppyness that came up with this act is allowing political parties from public funds to buy real estate. The time has come for us to come home from public funds. It is not the area of corruption, but the space in which no party calls itself European in this way and in this context of the law should step. These shortcomings, I am not going into how the report with the Agency is resolved, it is the subject of debate, it can, and this solution has for and against, all these shortcomings have been seen by the professional public and we have all received comments from Transparency of Serbia on what comes as a consequence if this law is adopted in an unaltered form. I, at all their arguments and with consultation with them and some amendments submitted by my colleagues from the DS parliamentary group, say that if you leave Article 5 so wrong, you will not be able to apply it because it refers to an attitude in which it does not say what you intend to change. I find it hard to understand the amount of indifference that approached the act and the difference compared to how the act was presented. Listening to the carefully proposed, I see that it is possible that the reason he is constantly seeing Bojan Pajtic and DS, for no reason whatsoever. To paraphrasise an old metaphor, the fact that Bojan Pajtic's bauk is orbiting your SNS is no excuse to give me the text of a law that is superficial, sloppy and missing. All sorts of arguments, all kinds of inadmissible qualifications about DS, about individuals from DS, the whole point of view when my guy says he's a villain and a criminal then it's a barbecue of MPs, and when I say that Bojan Pajtic is a criminal, that's true. So it's all political folklore. As much as there is truth in that folklore, there was so much pedancy in writing this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13198	The word is proposed by MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13199	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we don't adopt the reasoning of the law, we pass the law. I think it is useful for people in Serbia to know and to make a comparison between the usefulness of a bill that has been defined in the assembly procedure and whose point it was just to be before the bill announced by the SNS, so in that haste, it was probably forgotten to reduce the percentage for political parties, but it was important to be before the SNS, to submit it to the procedure before the SNS, regardless of what was changed in the cosmetic sense alone. If I took advantage of Mr. Chank's argument, the 30 dinars a month, what he suggested by the bill, the previous speaker, would turn into 0.3. So much is the attitude towards savings both to this useful and to such a fine and unsuspectingly written law. The law and the proposal do not say anything, there is no relation to the incomes and revenues made in the AP Vojvodina. I always say when you point a finger at something, when you point something at something, show it by your own example. The Democratic Party, the previous speaker, showed this in the 2011 law. The dialogue and working group, which were not even invited by SNS, number one, according to the distinguished colleague Kovac, all that was written here in parliament in 2011 went to the government and came to something completely different, and of course it was unspeakably adopted. In this way, with the opinion of those useful and those who are not sloppyly forming laws, who are only in favour of raising the figure that has been defined for political parties, for political activities, are even out of the loans that this country has owed, even from the credit they have taken part of the money to finance DS and have now come to teach us whether something is sloppy or not sloppy. Where's the dirtier? Indemnify the state, and then you take the responsibility to fund the political party. Where's the dirtier? It's useful, yes, but for that political party. It showed up. Here is an analysis, here is a model for which I asked a friend from the Ministry of Finance to do and what it would mean, how much savings would be made and how tax base would be, excuse me, not a tax base, which would be the basis for calculating the separation for political parties according to the model proposed by Mrs Comic and by the model proposed by the SNS group. Not only are we different at the proposed rate, which is 30% higher useful by Mrs. Komic, from 0.150% compared to 0.105% in this bill, but the basis is significantly higher. The base envisioned by the SNS is 797,319,600 dinars compared to a billion 345,747, blah, blah, blah. Both fundamentally and in terms of the allocation to finance political parties, we differ. Then what's useful about it? What's sloppy about that? You take from your duties political parties or from tax revenues at a significantly lower percentage of 30% to single out for political parties. Let's not because of the error of reason, whether the bill or the bill is mentioned in the explanation, my God, it will fall for one word. It's sloppy, it's not well done. Here, it says -- the draft, but it also says 30% less for political parties, so let the citizens of Serbia assess whether it's sloppy that you took out of the loan to finance political parties, which was little of what you took in the Vojvodine Development Bank, on an honorary note, and even today it can't be paid off. Was it useful and not sloppy, or is what the draft law now says sloppy, and in what we adopt 30% of the funds are less for political parties? Let the citizens of Serbia assess it, not Mrs. Comic or me. Don't let us trivialize anything. Don't let us hide the desire to take it more through the fact that we're going to look for a literal error in the interpretation of the law. I end up with a sentence with which I started - we're adopting the law here, not an explanation. If the argument had been made as volumes of books, they would not have accepted again because you are in pain what you are being targeted and what applies to Articles 16 and 20. - 30% less for political activities. It's a detour, it's a relationship, a responsible relationship with public finances. It is a responsible attitude towards citizens and it is a deviation from an arrogant policy that was led until 2012, where you took parts of the task to finance your political activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13200	The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13201	That all we heard from a respected colleague would make sense that the bill of law that I submitted was on the agenda, but it wasn't, it was the bill submitted by a group of 128 MPs. When I commented on the surface and the sloppyness of the reasoning, I said there was no point in changing it, it's not adopted, but Article 5 is adopted. Article 5 of your Bill proposal, 128 MPs, says - in Article 24 paragraph 3 - the words "from private sources" are deleted. This item 3 reads – all funds intended to finance the election campaign shall be paid to the account referred to in Article 1 and any payment of the election campaign costs shall be made out of that account. There is no word "from private sources". They are in paragraph 4. If you adopt this, no amendments, there's nothing to apply. You will have to adopt part of the argument, since it says in the draft of this law this applies to Article 24(4). You should read and then use the heat on the topic that's not on the agenda at all. What I think about whether or not I should have put my bill on the agenda, it's behind us. On the agenda is your bill, where we have a problem, the Assembly has a problem with Article 5 because of the surface and the sloppyness and the lack of it. I told you - organise a committee or do something if you really want to make any sense of the adoption of this bill. All right, I'm not going to talk about the bill right now, I'm going to hit the DS a little bit, it's legitimate and it's useless, and it's embarrassing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13202	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is proposed by MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13203	It's useful to read, but with open eyes. And with your eyes open, you could see that dear colleague Vladimir Marinkovic has already submitted an amendment relating to the correction you pointed to. I don't see that reason for further controversy, and that amendment is in the process, I think, since yesterday. On the other hand, we are discussing this bill submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. That's right. But why does someone who submits the bill today, just to be faster than the SNS, want that proposal forgotten? Is it better? It's not. But you look at that problem with that solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13204	Please, Mrs. Comic, don't come from the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13205	Why do you want to be silent about running faster than the SNS and handing over a law that changes nothing, or is cosmetically changing? We change sides, but we don't change percent, we don't change anything, just to be faster than the SNS. The speed, as far as this goes, doesn't measure. This law has its own nominal amount of savings that we want to make, because of these little pills that our public finances through this kind of savings will receive, until the final recovery. That's the difference in thinking. You have shown your position by proposing a law on amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities, where you have not changed anything. And everything that is in the congregation procedure, everything that is publicly spoken and signed and that in the congregation procedure, you cannot say – don't take such a thing as an argument. I didn't think you'd support this. Because your suggestion is not to change anything. And that's what the people at the finance ministry have clearly shown, with the model and how much DS will get under this law that we're going to adopt and based on what you're proposing and on what you're getting right now. What you suggested and what you're getting right now, you haven't changed anything. We want fundamental changes. We don't want any cosmetics, and we show these fundamental changes in this way. I accept this mistake, which has been undermined and which Mr. Vladimir Marinkovic, an esteemed colleague, has already proposed yesterday, and the amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13206	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13207	It's free for you to talk about my bill and there are many reasons why I can show you that this bill is better. You're also free to talk about your proposal being better and mine being at least what. That's not what we're asking ourselves, not you, not me. That's what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is about, which says we're talking about a point on the agenda. The draft law of 128 MPs is on the agenda. Nothing more and nothing less. I've signed a lot of bill proposals in this assembly. Some came to the agenda, some didn't. Some were adopted without the widest public knowing, such as putting aside the law on net income tax, on the famous solidarity tax. He had to be abolished. I also suggested the law. Any attempt to cover with all these words what I say, and that the text is superficial and sloppy, and by the content of the missing, is resolved by the fact that our joint fellow MP, Vlad Marinkovic, has submitted an amendment which erases this fundamental deficiency. But there remain two key -- the List of Tax Incomes of the AP Vojvodina and the way in which all taxpayers, all taxpayers, VAT, excise, customs, all types of tax, will buy property by political parties. It's something I think is very wrong. We can talk about the percentage whenever you want and whatever you want, about the way it's financed, theoretically, too. This is a problem, as are the list of tax revenues of the Duke's problem. But we solved at least one misunderstanding about the surface in Article 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13208	Thank you. The word is proposed by MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13209	That you followed closely on the political scene of Serbia, especially in Novi Sad and the AP Vojvodina, which is based on the income tax of citizens, which is based on corporate income tax, a tax base based on the rebalancing that some congregation majority in the AP Vojvodina adopted, and you can see that, according to the rebalancing of 14 billion dinars. So much for that list you're looking for and that worry you've made. As far as the need is concerned, as far as the SNS' wish itself is concerned, that... I don't know why anyone needs to ask a question and then some gesture and conversation with someone else not to have a dialogue, but, no problem, Mr. Chairman, I'll talk to you. By changing the Law on the financing of political activities, by changing Article 11, we want the public finances that all political parties receive, to be able to build space for the normal functioning of political parties, based on savings, based on separation. We want a place where young people, people who will inherit us in party management, in state leadership, will be able to educate, where they will be able to practice their skills. We want to think about the future that way, so that future leaders of our parties don't deal with it and not think about whether it's going to have space, how much it's going to cost. I'll take the opportunity to replicate to an esteemed colleague that the SNS at this point is paying the plant, the space is paying 260,000 dinars a month. How much does DS pay, with the owner camping outside the building itself, and will that facility be returned to the right owner or not? SNS from the establishment, that is, this space we moved to, we pay 260,000 dinars. Why don't you think about the future? Why not work for the future? Why are we just declaringly full of the mouths of the future and the young, and we are doing nothing to enable them to be more normal in Serbia's political system? Why do we think that at the moment when we no longer deal with politics – the flood, no matter what remains, no matter what debts remain, no matter what does not exist. Do you know who thought – then the flood after me? It's bad. We're thinking that as an idea, one movement, one big party, like SNS, we should be in the future. And I will rejoice when I'm in my Vrnjačka spa, in one part of the Vrnjačka spa called Lipova, when I can bake brandy or do other things, watch young people, like my colleague Jovičić and others, who have the potential to do it, how they will run this party and this country. But they'll have to be educated. They'll have to learn from our mistakes. Why is it a problem to buy space and leave it to the younger ones? They say a man better and he doesn't exist unless he built a house and built a vineyard. I was building a house. It's hard, I know. I haven't raised the wine town yet. I'm sorry and I hope the Lord God will give me a chance to build a vineyard. This is the house and this vineyard that the SNS wants to leave behind for young people who will lead both our party and our country tomorrow. What's the problem? What makes it a problem to look into the future and to those who are coming, who are now among us and who will come tomorrow, to enable one easier, more normal policy-making, and why is that a problem? Why is someone against it? Why is someone against the young? Why is someone against the future? Why is someone against normal political conduct? Why is someone against development? The Serbian Progressive Party has clear ideas. I've spoken to people from civil society, the NGO sector. I convinced them, and one amendment was submitted to speed up such a thing, but it's one thing to submit the amendment and have a good will because someone might want to buy another house out of it. The SNS leader showed how normal and polite it is to live modestly. He wasn't attracted to an inheritance villa he was entitled to. And today he lives in a building in New Belgrade. He didn't miss the hair on his head, and he doesn't want to change that status and that kind of behavior. But we want to give young people, those who inherit us, better than us, better conditions. That's one of the messages and the point of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13210	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has an authorised representative of the SPS, Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Babić, I have already lost hope that we will at all succeed in the morning part of the session's work to come to terms, but let me say on behalf of the SPS that we will support the adoption of this law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political activities because we believe that this is a logical response to the current economic situation, that this is the support of the reform course and the measures taken by the Government and this parliamentary majority. In the situation in which Serbia is in today's situation when financial sector reform is being carried out, when revenue and budget expenditure at the level of the Republic, autonomous province and local self-government are being harmonised, when measures are being taken to consolidate the financial sector and austerity measures, it is normal for political parties, in addition to participation in the debates held in this respected home, to vote on the proposals of the laws that are part of the reform and the personal example, by adopting this law, to show their willingness to work, if I may say, fate with our entire community. The essence of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of political activities is a significant reduction in the resources that political parties receive from the budgets of the Republic, the province and the budget of local self-government for their political activities and regular work and electoral activities. This significant reduction of funds, which are provided for political activity by political parties, has been carried out through amendments and additions to the existing law and Articles. 16 and 20. I mention this for the simple reason why, knowingly or unconsciously, this fact of a significant reduction in funds, which is allocated to the parties from public funds, is kind of disregarded, so other topics come to the agenda, but this is already a matter for each of us in relation to the exposure when considering the agenda point. A significant reduction is done in two ways. The reduction in the percentage of funds from public sources provided for financing the work of political entities whose candidates were elected as MPs, i.e. representatives and who were at RS level according to the current law were 0.105% of the tax revenues of the RS budget, i.e. the tax revenues of local self-government units. I said that the reduction of funds is significant and that it is done in two ways. One way is to decrease percent, because it decreases from 0.15% to 0.105%. Another way of reducing it is that this percentage is not counting on budget expenditure, which is very important to mention, as was the case so far, but only tax revenues, which are of course less than budget expenditure. In order for citizens to understand exactly what these provisions apply to, I will only mention a few numerical data that show black to white what it looks like in practice. If we look at the rebalancing of the RS budget for 2014 the revenues are 897 billion and expenditures are 1,100 billion. The deficit is 212. So it's not going to count on the total budget, it's just for the revenue. When we look at one of the local self-governments, for example we have Bačka Palanka, one of the municipalities in our autonomous province, in the budget rebalancing for 2014 the total revenues are 1,398,000,000, and the expenditure is 1,587,000,000. The difference is 188 million. Or the town of Kraljevo, for 2014, the city's budget of the city of Kralje is 3,339,000,000 are revenues, and 3,528,000,000 are expenditures for the purchase of property. The difference is 188 million. I think these figures themselves speak best of money and what is the essence of the change made by this law. There's still a few things to point out. This reduction applies, of course, to electoral activities, a reduction in the amount of funds to cover the cost of election activities from 0.1% of the expenditure of the Republic's budget, the province and the local self-government unit to 0.07% of the tax revenues for the year for which the budget is made. We think they're good, we're good at the SPS, and other solutions contained in this law. One of them is the purchase of property from public funds. You know, if public funds, if they're used to buying the immovableity needed to work political parties, we don't see anything problematic in the SPS. It seems more logical and fairer to us than that the assets of the immovable property can be hidden by income. Other solutions related to funds for the use of the election campaign, i.e. before that for the work of political activity, such as transport and meetings, we think it is quite logical. The party that has its own life knows that it has such activities during the year and that it is quite logical that the funds are also used for these purposes. That funds can be used to fund an election campaign, we don't see much of a problem here either. Why? Because it is known, the law regulates that when elections are held, a special account must be opened, so these funds must be transferred to a special account and we see no reason to doubt that a permanent campaign can be conducted, because one thing is a kind of political activity, and the other is electoral activities. In order for electoral activities to take place, someone has to call electoral activities and that there is a special procedure laid down in this law that will then enter into force. It is also good that this solution is related to the submission of the report to the Anti-Corruption Agency, but the essence of the whole law is the reduction of funds here, respected colleagues and colleagues, today different stories on not only the subject were heard, but generally on the subject of the existence of political parties, but also on our political system. I can't help but mention something that hasn't been mentioned by anyone today, which is what our being here is all about. We all came here thanks to the results of the parties that we represent in the elections that are organised thanks to the electoral will of the citizens. The election will of citizens should not be underestimated, but not the work of political parties. In addition to those arguments given here in the light of the law, where the provisions of the Constitution, i.e. the members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which are the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, Article 55 and Article 18, cannot be mentioned without mentioning one member of the Constitution which is not mentioned, which is very important in general, not only for this subject, but also for the subject of the essence of our political system, which is Article 5. The Constitution. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I remind you that political parties are a constitutional category, that they are part of the Constitution where constitutional principles are found. It explicitly found that the role of political parties in the democratic formation of political will is being guaranteed and recognised. It's always to be taken care of, whenever we talk about this very important subject. Otherwise, this law and this solution of ours do not give up, or they do not give up significantly, or they are almost deviating from the practice that exists in other countries. In most European countries, it also distributed about 80-20 or 70-30, related to the funds allocated to all parties participating in political life and those receiving votes, or MPs' mandates, and then proportionally participate in the allocation of this second part of the amount. There are also countries such as Germany, where those parties that are not in parliament are financed, but only on condition that they win a number of votes. Why? Because political parties tend there. Because political parties there are seen as the form of gathering citizens and the forms of organising citizens who are simply helping to participate in the construction and functioning of democracy in these societies. And it's nothing controversial. When you look at solutions related to this law and other countries, most countries provide public funding for political parties from the overall budget. I saw in one analysis that was made, I found information that, for example, in Republika Srpska, in our colleagues, total income was mentioned. We mention tax revenues, and this is an even lower category compared to total revenues. Most parties receive funds, in the world, in Europe, from the total budget. But maybe what we need to talk about is - what after? Why am I saying this - what is there to talk about? You know how, it's always been, and it's always going to be -- whoever gets more votes, it's logical to get a bigger amount of money. It is only a question of whether this amount of money is enough for those political activities that represent regular work, as other funds are also being received for the elections. Also a very important segment of political parties' participation in political life are the conditions in which political activities are being carried out. Today I heard from a colleague, said Slobodan Milosevic as king. We're in the form of an arrangement of the republic. You know, the king is every citizen who gets votes. I'll remind you that they're after you for the Caesarist powers that one of the presidents owns for as long as anyone who criticises it becomes power. Then everything that's been said about it is suddenly forgotten. In the 1990s, they said Milosevic had Caesarist powers, and after 2000, it turned out not to be so. You know how, I personally think that whoever gets the most votes in the direct elections, and these are political parties that participate in political life and associations of citizens, it is logical that the Constitution should measure the amount, and we can say the powers that they exercise on behalf of those citizens, to which it applies. This applies to the President of the Republic, as the President of the Republic is also directly elected. We can discuss whether people's representatives or president of the Republic have certain powers in terms of choice, but this is one debate that is not today, we can mention it, but it is not the essence today. Because if you're looking at the contents of the political system, we're being divided into both the president and the government. The president who has the government behind him and the assembly majority, he is always an effective president, always an effective government and is in agreement with the president. In other cases, there is this gap, so it is likely that a certain atmosphere or a certain word is created. We're all responsible for what we're saying here and for how we behave. Why? Because this second dimension of today's political party funding should also be taken into account. Does the public feel like we're wasting some enormous resources? When you look at these sums, so when you see a percentage of 0.05% or 0.07%, then you see that in practice it's completely different. There are really people who are well-intentioned, I'm talking about political analysts, who speak very correctly and concretely what we should change to make the image of political parties work even better than it is, to make everything transparent, to make it public, to make it clear and to see how the funds are spent, from whom they get and what they spend. But I can't say that there are others who aren't well-intentioned, so-called. Experts who, in fact, by criticising political parties simply want political parties not to be a constitutional category and that they do not participate in the democratic formation of the political will of citizens, but that then informal groups or so on. Experts are individuals who will exercise power, but if possible without citizens. So I deliberately mention this: “Citizens, ” because the will of citizens is something that needs to remind all of us when we speak or when we participate in executive power, something we should stick to. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for us in the Socialist Party of Serbia, this law is a very good law. We think the promoter has acted very responsibly. As part of the ruling coalition, we will vote for this law and we are taking part in responsibility, with these views and voting for this law, for its content. We think it's logical in this situation that we share the fate of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens to be part of the political parties' income, not expenditure, and to share as much as there is, so in some other circumstances these procedures may seem bigger, and then we can find some new solutions. Because it makes perfect sense that things can change in the congregation, but by passing the law. Why do I say passing the law? In some countries, there is no funding of political parties. In England, there is no direct, but indirect, and the election campaign is the same for everyone. In some countries, for example, I read in the Czech Republic, participation in the media during the election process is free, but it depends again on the number of candidates it has. Election results are even evaluated somewhere, giving political parties the opportunity to represent their policy and programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13212	Thank you. Is there anyone else from the president of the parliamentary groups or the authorised representatives? (No) We're moving on to the speaker list. The first speaker is Vladimir Marinkovic, and may Djordje Milicevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13213	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the esteemed representative of the proposal, Mr Babić, it was really wonderful to listen to Professor Obradovic, who explained in one methodological and detailed way and told us a lot about this, especially a comparative one analysis in the area of funding of political parties in the region, but also in other developed European countries. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia and our MPs will support amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties in the day of the vote, but at the beginning I must point out that I expected and was convinced that the amendments and additions to this law would be a matter and be a topic on which a broader consensus will be made and around which parties in power will, therefore, in the ruling coalition, agree with opposition parties that we need such a law and that we need savings at all levels, in order to recover the macroeconomic situation of our country and public finances. I expected that on a given hand, dear colleague Babic, we would be responsible, in exactly the same way, and that about the key things for our society we would be able to find this minimum of common interest that would help us to develop faster and better and to meet the strategic goals that this government has defined in its programme and which are defined in that exhibition of prime ministers that took place in April of this year. Amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties are simply a continuation of the government's economic policy. The continuation of what was defined in the very budget rebalancing. Through two basic aspects of public policies and economic policy, which is to stop borrowing and recovery of public finances, for better and better quality economic growth and for creating a better and more quality environment for the development of all social aspects, when it comes to our country. No, just the economy, but we have to admit to ourselves that, through the development of gross domestic product and its increase, that only through the development of the economy can we encourage the development of other sectors. We can invest in education, science, technological development, we can invest in health, well-being, in what I hope, all political parties, opposition or those that are part of the ruling coalition want to create when it comes to Serbia and what I am personally convinced that we have both potentials and resources in every possible sense that we can fulfill such a single policy and ensure a quality and good life for our citizens. However, aside from these savings, and I would not say that they are minor, I would not say that they are small, I will make only one partnership with the fact that, for example, the separation for public administration education in accordance with the law is 0.01% of the total gross salary of public administration employees, which is about 60-70,000 euros. These are savings, but also this money that can be focused precisely on opportunities, on projects, such as education, people working in public administration, on the potential establishment of an educational centre in the public administration to create conditions and to raise capacities, to make our administration and public administration what it is in developed countries, which is a service to the economy, primarily to the citizens of a country. I claim that these savings are not small, but what is more valuable from financial savings, that is what I would call a change of "majance", a change of consciousness. But in that sense, we understand and have a clear strategy that in the next period we will develop and we realize that we do not want to live differently and live much better than we make and what we earn. It is this law that contributes to our country, that our citizens, but especially our public sector lives in harmony with our capabilities. If we want more, if we want better, things are clear. We need to develop an environment for the development of the private sector, we need to develop an ambience to get as many quality foreign investors as possible, and to encourage domestic businessmen, domestic entrepreneurs, but of course, young people, and older people who will play a proactive role in their careers and looking after them, and the possibility of developing and providing their existence. What was defined in the 2011 law, I can't explain at all but that it simply didn't count on economic sustainability and finance political parties from the deficits that we had and at that time it was simply unfair in any possible way, of course, especially when we talk about economic justification. Because this is exactly the extra money we want to save now and save could be used for other projects, for projects that are of social nature, humanitarian nature, and why not the nature of incentives to certain investments. In any case, better than we have financed from this debt debt, the work of political parties, and we will see, I am sure after a year, two, that in this way political parties will function quite normally, and that this will be a boost and a boost to those who lead political parties and their members to work better, to work more with their membership and, of course, according to the opportunities and money they have, of course, and in accordance with the law that they allocate this money in one real and quality way. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, has no objection that political parties can own real estate. I think it is in favour of the development of our democratic system and the development of these parties, not only in terms of the development of democracy, the political system and their internal democratic arrangement, but in this way will provide long-term opportunities, efforts, motivation for people who are involved in politics to develop their political parties. We want the political parties that have existed for decades on our political scene, why not, it is also an advanced party, it is also a social democratic, socialist party, and democratic, to live for a long time and to define and define their development strategy not for a year, not for two, not from the election cycle to the election cycle, but for decades as it is done in developed democratic societies. So we think that this can help political parties improve their democracy and internal arrangements and prevent them from working more together with the NGO sector and that within these properties they have and that they can use them for humanitarian purposes and for the development of culture and art and all of those aspects of the functioning of a society that helps make this society better, that society is more developed and more civilized. I think Serbia definitely deserves it. I think that the amendments and additions of this law allow us and that they have exactly a multidisciplinary effect not only on savings but on improving democracy and improving the democracy of the parties themselves, therefore, within and their membership, especially their leadership. Professor Obradovic mentioned a very good example of the Federal Republic of Germany that even those parties that do not cross the censorship in the elections can be financed. This may be a proposal that can be considered with a clear parameter, a clear standard that is the percentage of votes that implies that it is one serious number of citizens, and which the parties deserve to be supported by the budget and which will affect the democratic life of a country, but it is now just one proposal and opportunity and the possibility to think about it. The SDPS proposal, which we will always support, is to control the spending of these funds, as we advocate in the Assembly itself, in the work of the Finance Committee, the budget and the control of public spending. Ensuring and providing the possibility of a control, independent body, the Anti-Corruption Agency to have greater capacity and to have even greater financial resources so that it can control the spending of funds intended for political parties as best possible. We believe that only the existence and the very fact that control can be serious, that the revision can be serious, is a clear signal to the leadership of political parties and to all political parties that they must respect the law in any case and that, in accordance with what they have and the possibilities, exclusively that the law gives them, that their parties are developing. Once again, the SDPS will support amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13214	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13215	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Professor Obradovic said in his opening statement that the SPS MP club, of course, in the voting day, wants to support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties, the financing of political activities. I will, at the very beginning, say that we are talking today about a very important and important legislative proposal and before I start to talk about the very importance and importance of the proposal that is the topic of today's session and, before I repeat again the reasons why the SPS Parliament Club wants to support in the voting day of this proposal, I would like to remind you that, as a parliamentary club, during the debate on budget rebalancing for 2014 and a set of accompanying laws, we have made it very clear that we see these legal proposals as necessary measures, when it comes to economic financial consolidation and when it comes to continuing reform processes in Serbia, without which there will be no positive shifts that Serbian citizens have to feel and that is our common ultimate goal. It seems to me, listening to the debate so far, that we all agree in one way, which is that Serbia must be modernised, Serbia must be reformed, which means that they must be taken bravely, to make bold economic decisions, but very often to apply and to make political decisions that are not popular. These are certainly measures to save Serbia's economy, and these are measures concerning Serbia's future and that concern every citizen of Serbia. Of course, a restrictive policy is needed, saving in a period of economic crisis must and should be a priority, but it is saved where it is, and not where it is not. Therefore, savings at the level of the state during the economic crisis must and should be a priority, without the burden of the crisis feeling at least socially, or, at least, the most socially vulnerable category of the population. Through a set of economic proposals, the economic measures that the government has proposed and put into consideration the republican parliament so far, it can be seen that the government has had one responsible, serious and realistic approach, a realistic approach and we from the SPS parliamentary club, we believe that such an approach should also be given to all political parties, regardless of whether they are part of the ruling coalition currently in Serbia, or come from the ranks of the opposition. Of course we'll support this bill. Certainly political parties must and should save, because the opportunities in the country are such that they must be saved wherever possible, but I will repeat, not on the burden of the socially most vulnerable categories of the population. We agree entirely with what Mr Babic, as a proponent of this legislative proposal, said that cosmetic changes are not good and that they will not have a fundamental impact on what our goal is, which is in the long run, stabilising public finances in Serbia. It is true that if we were able to make a decision that refers to about 39% of pensioners, to help stabilise public finances, then simply put, simply put, not accepting such a legal proposal that we are talking about today, would be socially irresponsible from any political party. Also, what I want to say, when it comes to the changes that we are talking about today in this legislative proposal in general, I have already said, a very important and important law, it is also important for the citizens, it is important, my colleague Marinkovic mentioned for independent bodies a little while, and for the controllers, it is also important for political parties. The first thing, citizens, of course, should know how political parties and citizens are financed, of course, should know how political parties use and spend every penny they receive from the republican budget. This legislative proposal is also important for independent control bodies, because it provides them with a more efficient way of controlling work, financing political activities about when someone asks a question – whether there are political parties to black money flows, whether there are in the party registers, the answer to that question is simple, it is a question for the competent institutions. We institutionally resolve the financing of political parties, financing of activities, institutionally solving control, that is a question for competent institutions, independent bodies and controllers whose work is provided by this important legislative proposal. I said a little while, this law is important for political parties as well. Political parties, unfortunately, are very often hit by the public. This is why political parties have to make sure that they do not come into a situation that, unfortunately, in some most negative way, they are subject to the public and this bill that we are talking about today is an opportunity to deny it in practice. For us, the Law on the financing of political parties, activities in general means, control, means transparency, means a very precise and clear definition of political activities and political parties. Of course, we fully agree, it should be impossible for political life in Serbia, in any way informal centres can affect important decisions in Serbia, but on the other hand, what we all want and what is our ultimate goal of making political life in Serbia work uninterruptedly, that, under very clearly defined conditions, political parties acquire funds for their regular activities and election campaigns. Transparent public finances make one society both democratic and responsible and transparent financing of political parties, in our opinion it should be another step further, another step forward, towards an even more responsible state, as well as participants in political life in Serbia. It is true that these amendments and additions to the law are designed to use funds for regular financing of political entities for the cost of the election campaign, but of course, it is said a little while, and it is also very clear, precisely defined by law, the election campaign moves on the moment when elections are formally discussed, not earlier, because there is a very clear and precise definition of existing laws. We in this provision really, absolutely don't see any problem. We believe that the time when maybe the outcome of the election could depend on billboards, on media campaigns, on marketing, for both us and that, today the voter, the citizen gives his trust exclusively in visible and recognizable results. But for some consensus, Professor Obradovic also spoke about it in the opening presentation, for some consensus which, in this regard, is important and important, in our opinion, we believe that, in some future time period, there is also a need to look at other countries' practices, to make certain comparisons, to take what is positive, and perhaps to think about, in the next period, how political activities are financed in Slovakia. I will stand out only one segment, that the parties have the right to special funding from public sources, as well as free access to the media and the time of television broadcasting is the same for all political parties. Perhaps at some point this is a question that can be consulted among all relevant political actors in Serbia's political scene. It is also true that these changes provide that the political party can acquire immovable property and that it can buy real estate from public sources. Once again, I'd like to do the same thing that Professor O'Connor was talking about. Obradovic, so we really don't see any problem at all. The bigger problem would be that the immovableity comes from private sources, then the question could be asked. Perhaps, at some point, this provision should also be further specified by the fact that this immovableity can serve as Mr Babic said, for education, for political activities, simply specify the purpose of the immovable property purchased from public funds. But we really don't see the problem, I'll repeat, so the bigger problem would be that the party can buy real estate from private funds. Then you can ask a question of motive why someone invests, from whose private means, from which private funds? Today, among other things, it was said in the morning part of the discussion on sustainableness, that Serbia needs a sustainable political system, that we need an amendment to electoral legislation. You know what, we agree on everything. It is true that Serbia is in need of a fundamental change in electoral legislation, but it is also true that some order of priorities should be respected, and the priority at this point is the economic recovery of the state, is economic and financial consolidation, is a continuation of essential and reform processes in Serbia without which citizens will not be able to feel a better and positive shift. I repeat, we fully agree that Serbia is in need of a fundamental reform of electoral legislation, but I would also like to add that this is not a daily-political topic for us, that this is a very important and important issue that is important to reach a consensus on, which extends the consensus of relevant political actors on Serbia's political scene. I would like to remind that the MPs' club, when adopting the last amendments and supplementing the law in the Republic's Parliament in 2010, amended and supplemented the Law on the selection of MPs, said that the proposal sees as a necessary and transitional solution and that we want to give an answer to three key requirements both of the EU and the Constitutional Court and the professional public, but that we will not solve what they are, in our opinion, essential and key issues on Serbia's political scene, and the fundamental and key question is, as you have said, what happened in the AP Vojvodina, how to prevent political trade on Serbia's political scene. The Socialist Party of Serbia, I don't want to go back in time, but it had this bitter experience in 2002 or 2003. This is a key issue for us when it comes to reforming electoral legislation in Serbia. Once again, in Voting Day, the SPS Parliament Club will, of course, support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13216	Thank you. Vladimir Djukanovic, he's not here. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13217	Dear Presidents, Mr Babić, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as my colleagues have already said, the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities. We'll back up for reasons we've already heard. I will add, we consider this one responsible act, responsible for the situation in Serbia, responsible for Serbia's citizens in general. The proposed changes relate to the sources and way of funding political activities, to funding the regular work of political entities, to financing the costs of the election campaign. In both cases, it relates only to funds from public sources. And in the end, they refer to the control of spending. That may not be a big change compared to the law in general, that they are small, but they are significant and they send a big message. A colleague mentioned earlier, I'm going to pick up where he left off, that this is the time when citizens can get the right information about funding political entities, or political parties as part of it. It is important for citizens to know how much money and how the state spends on funding political entities, to make it public, to see the public constantly and to know exactly who controls the spending of these funds. It's important to citizens who spend money on budgeting. This is important in the end, and compared to the fact that citizens are the ones who best judge how those who spend state money behave, so also political parties. And the citizens are, we'll agree to all the Supreme Judges when it comes to political parties. Why is this important yet? It is also important for political parties, given the public image of political parties, which is not always best shown in the best light. The basis for political parties to know very clearly and precisely how and from which funds are financed under clear rules, on equal terms, one word in a row, the introduction of order in the part. What is also very important for political parties, which is a public that must constantly be provided, an insight into the resources spent on naturally effective control. It's also in the interest of political parties. This issue is in the interest of both Serbia and life in Serbia, because political parties are part of a political system entity, a constitutional category, authorized to form public opinion and win people for their politics and that it is a system that government in Serbia and don't let God be any different. So it's also very important for Serbia in general. What I would like to stress was the words, but simply the need to report to the public, when it comes to sources and the way in which political entities are financed, the law recognises funding from public sources and funds from private sources. I want to stress here again for public reasons, that when it comes to funding from private sources, there are no restrictions on political entities. As far as it's going to be, there's a limit for those who give as much as they can and there's another kind of restriction, which are examples, as regulated by law, which is illegal funding, it's precisely stated in the law. In addition, I particularly point out four things, which is an illicit exercise of pressure, that is not giving or giving privileges, that is to conceal the identity of the contributor and the amount of contributions. The promoter didn't get into that part. It remains, as I would say in force. So if there are no restrictions from private sources, when it comes to funding from public sources, there must be and there must be limitations. One of the restrictions or the most important restriction is in relation to the country's economic potential. It has to be from real sources. That must be real. If that's not the case, then it'd be financing a religion. They have no parties, no Serbia, no citizens. What else do I want to point out? The essence of the change in this law is precisely in the amendment of Article 16 and the amendment of Article 20. The law. Thus, in both cases and all the time the Law treats only funds from public sources, does not enter into other issues. Therefore, Article 16 speaks of the financing of the regular activities of political entities, and there are two changes that are important. One is a percentage change. So far it's 0.15% or 0.150%, although that zero in math doesn't mean anything. Now the proposal is supposed to be 0.105%, exactly 30% lower in percentages. What's significant is that the funding base is no longer what it was, expenditures, but revenues and not revenue in general, but tax revenues. So what's the authority of the state to pick up the more over the year, the more they'll be here. This second change will not affect the allocation of funds for a simple reason, as it relates only to changes to the law. Otherwise, amending the 2012 Budget System Act already provides for budget financing of parties to also be made out of tax revenues. So, in a realistic sense, it won't reflect. It is important to amend or align only that legal provision when it comes to party financing, to be of tax revenue, not expenditure. What do I want to say? The previous government, and this one, by changing the budget system, the roof system when it comes to the budget, has corrected the matter and has already introduced that funding from tax revenues. You can easily see that in numbers. The 2013 budget envisioned 837 billion tax revenues, of which 0.15, when applied, a billion 250 million for party financing. The rebalance was reduced by 143 million because they were lower tax revenues, 761 billion. Of course, the funding of political parties has been reduced to one billion 142 million. It's a completely similar story from 2014. Budget revenues are planned for 802 billion. Thus, by applying the 0.15, a billion 203m coefficient, and finally, the last rebalancing cut tax revenues to 759 billion, or to a billion 139m, respectively, when it comes to political parties' revenues. I think this is important for another reason, which is that in public often false data is reported that the parties are something, while they ask other savings, raised the state for about 500-600 million. That's not true. The law provides for the financing of regular work by political entities and this year's funding has been reduced by 64 million, according to the rebalance, because tax revenues are lower. Of course, it envisions funding of election campaign costs. The elections were in March and those funds were spent at 0.1%, as the law predicted. It's a fact, it's true, and that's what people need to know. When we look at this, we need to tell people what the effect of this law is, and I consider it a key change -- a reduction in the cost of funding political parties. So, if we apply to the 2014 budget, this now existing one, because we don't know 2015 yet, that savings would be 361 million. I have to say a lot and that's a contribution, it's a contribution, it's a responsible relationship, it's a serious relationship to the economic situation in Serbia, according to the state of public finances, according to this government's policy to share the burden of this crisis equally, so that the costs can be such that they can be economically sustainable, but also socially sustainable, which the government has already shown through this rebalance, by protecting the socially most vulnerable layers of the population. It is, for example, a concrete figure when it comes to this, but an even greater lesson than the figure is that political parties have a chance, an opportunity to show their own responsibility, a seriousness to the state of the country in economic, financial and, when they call on others, to make their own contribution to savings, to reduce these expenditures, to bind their finances to tax revenues, so when it gets better in the state, when there are more taxes and they will have more. It is, in my opinion, a big message, which, in terms of small changes, so to speak, in relation to the whole law, is being sent today and we are joining and we are giving full support to the citizens of Serbia, simply put, political parties, or political entities, therefore, all those participating in the elections, must also contribute to the country's savings, economic, financial stabilisation, with the aim of implementing reforms in Serbia, to increase income, to increase production, economy, to hire, and then be more, then will be a larger gross social product, and then it will be easy to share what has more than now, what it does not have. Simply, to be economically sustainable from real sources, but also socially sustainable for all categories of population, as well as for political parties to share the fate of all those who need to bear the burden of the crisis in Serbia. I repeat, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties, because we consider it a responsible and serious act at the moment in relation to this situation in which Serbia is located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13218	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws and other acts in the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a regular break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. In the order of the MPs, according to the application for the word, there is a folk letter by Prof. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, that the MP Radmilo Kostic be prepared. Here's Professor Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13220	I thank the chairman. Today, the subject is of amending and supplementing the Party Financing Act, which should practically give us one indication that political life exists in Serbia, and it exists in this system that virtually all countries in the environment and in the EU are building their own state arrangements. Why am I saying this? Because we had the opportunity to hear that there is legitimacy and legality in certain decisions when certain governments are established, and sometimes there is no legality, but there is legitimacy, or vice versa, but what's important to say is that this law still gives us a certain procedure as to how political elite should behave. The political parties in Serbia, by general definition, are, in fact, a voluntary relatively permanent organisation of political like-minded people whose goal is to take over and exercise power for profit or permanent influence, in order to achieve certain goals. These objectives are practically constitutive elements, which is that each party comes before its constituents with a particular programme, with a certain ideology, but there is what is called organisation and functioning and the drive to actually implement it in the everyday lives of citizens, which are essentially defined for certain programmes, not exclusively for political parties, but exclusively for programmes. This is why it is very important to say today that what citizens say through certain surveys and what opinion is created in society, is borne by all political factors in society. Why am I saying this? We had the opportunity to hear from Mr Babic that citizens of Serbia today in 30% of respondents practically do not have a good opinion that political actors are there to create a better society, better conditions for the economy of a state, than that there is simply a suspicion among 30% of citizens that they are the source of corrupt activities. That's what we in our society have to change. We have to change on the basis of how we live everyday life, especially when we talk about members of political parties who send a message with their work and their lives to simply share the fate of this people. The party financing law is one big step in democratisation of society, and it began obviously in 2003, 2007 and 2011 practically made certain decisions concerning funding from the budget, so he said – of all costs 0.15%. Now what the SNS is fundamentally changing is that we're reducing that percentage of the budget cuts, but we don't want to go on a set of loans anymore, we're comparing certain costs, but we're doing it in revenue. As much as we are able to make money on Serbia's budget, we will be able to give political parties so that they can live. The work financed from the budget is daily and the work on the campaign itself. When we talk about establishing general standards in this area, when it comes to funding political parties, it's very important, and these are mostly NGOs dealing with these issues, and I'm going to say, there's also Transparent Serbia, CESID, doing different research, and they're talking about, even in 2011, doing research, that the public and responsibility are not at a certain level at which it should be. That's obviously why we have a start today to open this topic. So far, no one, except for SNS, has opened the topic in an adequate way. We started to open the most subtle part when it comes to money, and we practically punished ourselves most as a political party, but to show the citizens of Serbia that we share the fate of this people, of everyday life, that the path of reform applies to everyone, and most of all to those who are the most responsible, and at this point the SNS is the most responsible. The democracy of society implies the acceptability of the rules of this law, but also involves getting to know the public by building support for the application of this law. When we talk about funding from public sources of funding, then we can say that the most important part of what I think so far is that few people have touched, which is control, or the way we're going to control how these funds are spent. In a 2011 survey, it is stated that no model in other countries is ideal, so it is not ideal in Sweden that has been struggling with this since 1951, and there is no body that controls and citizens have no insight into reporting when it comes to spending political parties' funds. In Germany, it is an obligation to publish sources of funding, as well as for us, but a special body has been formed, a state body that practically exercises that control. This is done in collaboration with the DRI and the Anti-Corruption Agency, and this model has proved very good for the Balkans in general. The United States, for example, has a federal electoral commission that has practically since 1974 to secure its independence, and researchers claim Canada has the best model. Why does he have the best model? Because there was a balance between what we are doing in Serbia, which is transparency in spending finance, one part of the budget separation, but what we say has not yet come to life, which is that donors are pretty much hiding when it comes to funding political parties, because there is one fundamental fear. First, fear that you will be punished for it. In Canada, there are subsidies, tax reliefs when certain political parties help. Why do I do this and why is such a view of businessmen who might want a particular program, a platform to help? Because directly, politicians are indirect, and they are directly, practically those who are under a great condemnation of citizens, but also a great condemnation of the media. When we're talking about the media, I'll remind you that we had a set of media laws and she was doing one thought that made all of us bound up here in some way, but she surprised us a little bit, and that's that we're obliged to put up with virtually everything the media publishes, although it's true, even though it's not true, because of what you're doing a certain public job, especially when it comes to politicians. They're obliged to simply endure everything that's being said. I think that the consensus on political objectives, which we have today in terms of party financing, will certainly be achieved, is only the question of whether opposition parties will support it tomorrow, when there is a vote, either the day after tomorrow or perhaps the day after, because they will see that they are simply obliged to the citizens and their responsibility to simply lay down their accounts and to reduce those costs, because they have also reduced their costs and given up many other things. Because of this when we talk about a new time coming, which is that the protection of parliamentaryism here is one of the most practically important actions, which we are tasked with, I think that the SNS is headed by Mr. Vukic is practically the first to return to parliament the place that simply needs to exist in society as the largest institutional and highest legislative part of the development of society. What's important is that different opinions here can always conflict and that we should come out of this conflict with certain results and that we are responsible for our citizens as well as institutions, the state and the economy that we are supposed to leave with our generations tomorrow. By this law, we are instituting order. By introducing this order, we simply create a stable state with which everyone will want to work today, tomorrow, in terms of investment, in terms of investment, especially when we talk about youth education. That is why this idea is that political parties should have their own property and that this should be bought in the most transparent way possible, because that is why you, in fact, creating the present, pave the way for the future of young people who will be at a certain level of education right in the field of politics. What's interesting, which is that you will always find people, including in education and in health and politics, who have not entered politics because of some programme that should be represented, because of some piece that refers to ideology, but have entered because of certain interests, but it is simply an opportunity for people to show themselves as they are and surely that both the media and the party's organs always respond to such people. It is certain that such shortcomings in societies and developed democracies exist and that there are known mechanisms to sanction them. That is why this Party Finance Act is the beginning of the development of democracy in this Serbia right at a time of major economic change, in times of economic reform, which should simply put citizens in a common bloc together with the political elite, as we call it, where there will simply be no different opinions regarding the country's economic future. We think that Serbia has indeed gone very far in democratisation of this society for the past year and a half, or for these last six months, which is confirmed by practical EU documents, and even by the progress report of Serbia, because it has had many obstacles on that path. We hope that all political actors and all political parties in the future will come together to defend Serbia in general. The Serbian Progressive Party will be fully open to such co-operation and we think it will be better for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13221	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word has the People's MP Radmilo Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Law on the financing of political parties and political organisations is very clear and very precise. The objectives of this law are clear, what effects we want to achieve, and they are also very measurable in nominal terms. Since this morning, we have listened in the morning debate, however, this savings will help at least to the extent that the antagonism of the expenditure and revenue sides of the budget is reduced. If there were a little more political wisdom in 2008 and a little more brains and courage in those years, when the global economic crisis began, we probably wouldn't be in a situation today and we wouldn't have to pass these laws. However, more has been spent than we have earned, and now it is said that “the banker has come for his own. ” We must, like our pensioners and public sector employees, all together carry this burden of crisis. I had the honour and satisfaction of receiving a delegation of Estonian parliamentarians last year or before last year with former counterpart Zelenovic and, among other things, in the conversation, we asked how they acted during the crisis, starting in 2008. They told us then – well, we immediately cut both salaries and pensions by 30% and after a year we have already overcome the burden of the crisis. However, we had the opposite, so we increased the salaries and the number of employees and pensions, without having a real basis for it. That's why I think of this set of reform laws, first of all, of the Law on privatisation and bankruptcy, where we will probably all hope, by the end of next year, to finally put an end to enterprises in restructuring and enterprises with social capital, given that each year they spend on estimates of many economists who follow this area between 600m and 700m euros. So we will also save these savings, and I hope that all parliamentary groups will support this draft law on the financing of political parties, with the laws already passed as much as possible to curb the expenditure side of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13223	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13224	Thank you, Your Honor. For a wonderful miracle, today I expected more unity and the same tones when it comes to discussion under this law. But some respond to these proposed changes, some do not respond. They protect themselves from various explanations and interpretations, but from all the discussions that were under way today, that is, in the morning, one conclusion prevails that some people are bothered that they will have far less funds to finance from public sources. As one of the signatories of the amendment and supplementation of this law, I believe the law brings something good, something new. If someone thinks a 350, 360 million savings on an annual basis is something small, it's not. The esteemed colleague Obradovic explained it quite well on the case of my town of Kraljev. He mentioned the King's City budget and certain savings, and I'm going to join that discussion and I'm going to say that it's about the transfer of funds from the republican budget to the city's size of Cačka and that economic capacity of Cačka. As for all other discussions concerning property and allowing political organisations to provide themselves in this way in a legal and legitimate way and in business space and real estate, I believe that this is right and quite right. Unlike some of the parties that came to the property by taking away other people's assets, they never paid the rent, the SNS settles 260,000 dinars per month on behalf of the lease. It is a legitimate right, as distinguished counterpart Zoran Babic said, for future generations, for some other people who will work in the SNS, to provide business space and space where they can work and be and that is something that is public and all visible. Also, I must point out that this is a small contribution to us as well as to propose, and hopefully all the MPs, who, I am convinced, in the voting day will be unique and vote that with this small contribution, that with that 353 million at this moment we will help recover our public finances, 350 million here, 350 million in ten places, that will mean a lot. So that the other colleagues, and I know that there are a lot of them reported, have both time and motive to say something, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13225	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Mirjana Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13226	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today's debate on the draft law on the financing of political parties is, in my opinion, very interesting, but lacks the famous opposition issue – and why the urgent procedure? The issue remained because DS representative Mrs Gordana Comic tried to advance the SNS and propose her version of the law, adopted by the National Assembly in 2011 on the DS proposal. It is nice of Mrs Comic to say that she, as a longtime MP, admitted her mistake and in the light of the law, stated that the opposition MPs at the time, Ms Jorvanka Tabakovic and Mr Veroljub Arsic, were psychic and that they had predicted that there could be a situation where income for political activities would necessarily increase by increasing expenditure and that Article 16 of the law should be regulated differently. Although Mrs Comic found it, although she said it did not go into the essence of the law and this time, in her version, she did not propose a reduction in funds allocated from the budget for political parties' activities. That is why 128 SNS MPs, led by the ideas of their experienced colleagues, proposed amendments to the existing Law on the financing of political activities. The essence of all changes to this law lies in the fact that the amount of money that has so far been allocated for political activities, under the current Democratic Party law, will be reduced by more than 30% and that the money will remain in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The Serbian Progressive Party, as a responsible party, voted in favour by the half-dominated majority of Serbian citizens, shares the fate of its people. In a very difficult economic situation, when restrictive fiscal measures are introduced, when salaries and pensions are cut, the ruling majority's MPs suggest that funds intended to finance political activities are re-routed for those purposes that will make life of citizens better – for building infrastructure, for new hospitals, schools, for better roads, for subsidies in agriculture, for socially endangered jobs, for new jobs. How much SNS legislators, or MPs, thought of their citizens who, thanks to the irresponsible policy of previous governments, were brought to the brink of existence, also said that the funds intended to finance pre-election activities would be reduced from 0.1% to 0.07%. This means that funds from public sources, intended for election campaign costs, will fall by about 30%. Instead of the fabulously expensive election campaigns, which have often been financed from loans from various development banks that some parties have not yet returned, the funds will be allocated to those most needed – the poorest layers of society for their better social and health insurance. One of the newspapers introduced by this law is that funds to finance the regular work of political parties are also used to finance the costs of the election campaign. But the law obliges political entities to use 5% of the total funds, obtained for regular work at the annual level, for professional training, for international co-operation and for working with membership. Amendments to the Law provide for the possibility for the parties to purchase real estate from budget revenues. Those parties who make money available for rational use and who behave domestically will also be able to leave their future followers with real estate that will facilitate their work, education and allow for a better start-up position. I don't think I'll make a mistake if I say that no political party, and especially not the ruling party, has passed a law on funding political activities in favour of its damages in the last few decades. The Serbian Progressive Party is a party of responsible people whose interest is above its personal and party interests and could therefore propose a law that will reduce its budget revenues by more than 30%. I will complete this presentation with the words of the proposing representatives, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Babic – this is only the first step towards a comprehensive political reform ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13227	The People's MP Gordana Komic, I presume, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13228	Thank you. It's a replica of exposure, just to show that it's not my fault that you all know the whole text of the law that I've passed and it's not that I don't feel like I beat you to it, but it's not a subject at all. So, neither should anyone be ahead of who, nor is the law I signed on the agenda, nor is it the intention to compete with anyone in similar drafts of the law. But obviously it works when the MP, in this case the MP, does his job, because it can be explained so that we came up with a similar idea, which is good, means we need to change the law on political activities. The diversity of the solution is also as good as it is good that, as I hear it, you will classify amendments that correct extremely missing solutions in this law. One amendment that removes a nonsensical member and another amendment that in a more clear and better way defines how this is from public income, so from the budget, from the money of all citizens, they buy real estate for the political party. That's what congregations are for. That's why I wish you liked it, and since I see it has come to a good reception with the ruling majority, I can now announce to you that for almost every draft law that will have to come according to the National Plan, I'm going to beat you to it. And then you take off the emergency procedure or refuse to put it on the agenda, but it will do a lot of good to discuss the bill that will then be proposed either by the Government or by some other MPs or by a group of MPs. That means we're doing our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13229	Time, Mrs. Comic. Thank you. The People's MP, head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic, came forward. On what basis, Mr. Granny? (Zoran Babic, from the post: As a Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13230	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Mirjana Andric is right. It is absolutely right that the only motive for proposing some laws, which is legitimately the right of every MP, and I hereby encourage that several MPs, either individually or group, as MPs, propose legislative solutions. If there were any good will before running to the Office and teaching a law that is cosmetic, the debate would have opened, communication would have opened. Someone who has a good will, who thinks he has a good idea, and that kind of thing was in the past and in this session when some legal solutions are, for the past I'm sure, for this no, I'm building on, that when something came from opposition MPs and if there is communication, if there is an agreement, which is part of one and parliamentary and democratic practice, we've come to common solutions, and that kind of thing has been voted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If the desire for these changes to be cosmetics, such as cosmetics, because it remained the same percentage, was changed only by a party and was in line with the Law on the Budgetary System, without any communication, only that on the front page of the bill, it wrote several hours or a day earlier, rather than what the SNS did that announced the submission of these amendments and the addition of the law, I see no different than what Mrs Mirjana Andric said, and that was important only as soon as possible to hand over such a law and say – here, we remembered earlier. Of course, this law is not now being discussed, but we are talking about thinking. You can't think one way last Thursday, and another way to think this Thursday, let's say, so we're now 0.15, so we're now 0.5, so we don't know how long until next Thursday. That is why it is legitimate for us to discuss all the suggestions that are in the congregation procedure. Why surrender to congregation procedure if someone does not want to talk about it? I mean, when such a proposal comes from someone who really has an envious parliamentary practice in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, but also in international organisations, I respect that someone who may be younger, less experienced, shows how it should be, but to show how it should be on the case, not just running to the office to get the stamp and here we arrived before. Where's the deal? Where's the desire to make a deal, where's the desire to compromise, where's the desire to find the best solution? The Serbian Progressive Party and I, as an authorised proposing representative, have called on colleagues from both the ruling part of parliament and the opposition section, to exchange views. Unfortunately, those opinions were such that we couldn't find a compromise at that point, but at least we tried. We said bar – come on we'll talk and I think it's good practice and good practice for the future. So there's no reason to teach someone the wrong things, the wrong examples. One is a good parliamentary practice and the SNS is in the mood to promote the Institute and the National Assembly's institution by introducing such practice, but again I will say if a hand is provided on this side, and on the other hand it gets a slap, that hand often stays in the air or is lowered.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13231	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Comic, on what basis? (Gordana Comić, from town: Replica. I don't think Mr. Babic has spoken offensively. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13232	He just sent it to express himself offensively. It's not a subject at all, nor was it a basis for replication. He often misreads, but offensively, the chairman, I really wouldn't think of Mr. Babic as such. It misreads because I neither run anywhere to submit any proposal, there are no proposals from opposition MPs or proposals from the ruling majority. The division, as well as the view that only the ruling majority is responsible for the Assembly, is due to the insufficient maturity of the political public in us and the insufficient strength of this institution. The Assembly knows the MP and the Assembly knows the parliamentary groups. A copy of the government's support is understood, but the fine and thin space between the government and the Assembly in which MPs understand that only together can in the best way control the government, is the space that has been adopted in this assembly in Serbia. There is nothing for the ruling majority to meet the opposition, nor is there any need for the ruling majority to hand over the opposition. That's what the Constitution says, whether the ruling majority wants it or not. It is written in the Law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, whether the ruling majority or not, could read the opposition or not. I do not insist, nor have I brought into debate the draft law on which I have the right to submit it, nor has it been submitted with the intention of being faster or slower. It's just right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13233	The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13234	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, today we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political activities, which as a mature and politically responsible party of the SNS, respecting all the weight of the current economic moment in which the country and citizens are located, and of course is not at all responsible for the difficult economic situation that has been inherited and in which we are all together today. The SNS MPs wanted this bill to bring together the present, the future in a unique and efficient way, but also to introduce a very important mechanism, which is a mechanism for controlling the spending of political parties' financial resources. When it comes to facing the present that I must again point out that it is difficult and that all citizens of Serbia feel it as mature and responsible, of course, wants to participate together with citizens in reducing the part of the budget relating to funding political activities. In this part, a member of the 16th previous law relating to the financing of political activities is very important. Our proposal is to reduce this percentage from the revenue budget, on the real side of the budget from 0.150% to 0.105%. What the SNS shows its responsibility, its maturity and its seriousness is that these funds from the budget will be provided from real foundations, not from unrealistic grounds, not from the cost-effective side, not from those credits that were intended to repair roads, to repair hospitals, to repair kindergartens. In this way, the SNS believes it takes full responsibility. Another member of the law which is and how significant concerns the previous Article 20 relating to the allocation of campaign funds. It also reduces funds from 0.1% to 0.07% and again the SNS as mature and responsible assets will not be determined on the spending side, but on the revenue side of the budget. In this way, the SNS estimates that around 3.5m euros will be saved on an annual basis, i.e. less allocated to the functioning of political activities of around 35%. Of course, political parties are a living organism, they should co-operate continuously and work together with their voters and citizens, and what we propose is that the funds that are intended for transport costs and meetings be financed from public revenues. What I also want to highlight, and what the SNS has proposed to these legal changes, is transparency and the public in spending financial resources. The transparency and the public and the spending of financial resources shall be examined in Article. 28th and 29th of the previous law that we changed in this sense that political parties are obliged by 15 April to submit to the Agency a financial report for the previous year, as well as the obligation for political parties to publish the financial report on their website. What is also characteristic and how it can be a mechanism and should be a mechanism to control the spending of public funds is a change of Article 29 in the part concerning the fact that the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency is obliged to adopt an act relating to the report of the delivery of spent funds at the time of the campaign. The act is required by the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency to deliver no later than five days from the election day. What I would also like to emphasise is a Article 11 that changes in attitude 4, which refers to the funds available to political parties, which are mobile and immovable things and to the purchase of these immovable things, i.e. public-income buildings. It will also achieve transparency in this way, and it will be clear why and for which purpose these funds are specifically defined. Of course, it is also the view of SNS and SNS MPs in the future, as parties and parliamentaryism should remain in Serbia. Democracy is, in fact, developing on parliamentaryism and in order to improve training and new political knowledge of young generations, and that it is a significant change in Article 11 in point 4. In this way, of course, we also give strong support to the government of the Republic of Serbia and its Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, in that part concerning the stabilisation of the country's finances and the final economic recovery of our country, for the sake of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13235	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olivera Pesic, and let the MP Boban Birmancevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13236	Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political activities. The law, which entered into force on 22 June 2011, has certain shortcomings which are being eliminated by these amendments and amendments. The amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties are amended in Article 11(4), which stipulates that the political party can buy immovable assets exclusively by means of private resources. Given that movable and mobile things, which make up the assets of political parties, serve only political activities of political parties, and political activities are financed from both private and public sources, and can be kept in the same account, the existing law is very difficult to apply to the political party to acquire its immovable property by making the difference between the sources of funding. The amendments and additions to this law are complemented by Article 19, where the list of costs for financing political activities, which are included in the regular work of political parties, is extended for the costs of transport and organisation of meetings, which is actually a prerequisite for working with voters and membership. The most important changes are amendments relating to art. 2nd and 4th in terms of budget cuts of the Republic of Serbia from 0.15% to 0.105%. This is about a linear reduction for all political parties, which is necessary in the period when the government implements a austerity policy in all areas in order to achieve macroeconomic stability. So these changes make savings in the state register by about 30%. More funds remain in the budget and, according to Proposer Zoran Babic, for some of the more important things that life means in Serbia, for the construction of schools, kindergartens, roads. The amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties also ensure that the annual reports of political parties are available on the Anti-Corruption Agency's website and the cost of publishing the report is reduced. Criminal measures are also prescribed for political parties who do not publish their reports in accordance with this law. The amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties are, in fact, based on the development of political parties on a sound basis and therefore I call on all MPs to support these amendments and additions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13237	Thank you. The People's MP Boban Birmancevic has the word, and let the National MP Vesna Markovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13238	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, the Law on Funding of Political Activities, or rather, Serbian said financing of political parties, is one of the laws in the set that this parliament, this government wants to adapt, change, improve and all in its intention to make business environments, improve the conditions in which our citizens live and that the interest of these citizens comes first. What is very important to say, this law is fundamentally and essentially important to citizens, primarily given the situation in which society is located, the situation in which our economy is located. The basic measures provided for by this law are the reduction of the cost side of the budget, and above all in the divisive side, i.e. under this law, there will be a change. Thirty percent is a cut and that's for sure. It is irresponsible by the opposition to dispute a proposal that reduces the financing of political parties, or political activities by 30%. This does not reduce the financing of parties of certain opposition or positions, this is a law that regulates the financing of all parties and is exactly the same for all parties regardless of their size. The political parties have certainly come into existence and are a reflection of the people's will and their power and size are directly proportional to the support that these parties have. At this point the SNS has the most support and it is simply so, the product is exclusively the will of the citizens. Sometimes political parties have completely and truly funded themselves in a different way. I'm gonna pull a parallel. It's just like that and the citizens know it. It is possible for people to get to the factory for small money, to get to the company, to the mine, to make huge fleets, trucks, jeeps, expensive vehicles for a short time, and what my colleague Marian would say is miracles, and airplanes. While this government, while this prime minister, while the Assembly is in this session, will no longer be a practice. The financing of parties is clearly defined by this law, where in one part these funds will be determined and how these funds will be spent. Of course it was given the freedom to have parties with their resources available in the way they think it is necessary and good for the parties. Thus, simply put, these funds can and will be spent in accordance with the intentions and wishes of the parties. There's no need to get through in different ways, one way or another. It is clearly defined that the money they receive from the budget can be spent among other things for the purchase of real estate. Of course, I note, citizens know that, it's only budget funds. So you know exactly what the funds are, who they're getting from, and how they're going to be spent. The interest of citizens is, of course, in the first place and the adoption of this law is another measure in order to transfer the burden of spending party reduction to political parties. It is irresponsible to dispute the size or amount of money that will be reduced by this law. Where opportunities arise, this law and all future ones, this Government, this Assembly, will make decisions to place the burden, in which this economy has imposed the burden of poverty, or the burden of crisis, on everyone, including political parties. Justice is, of course, a dispute, but it is available. It will simply be shown in the longer run that this bill, as well as all those laws adopted in this Assembly, has a positive result and the good side of this bill and that all previous times adopted by this Parliament will have a positive effect on the citizens. As we did and what we did, citizens' judges were also tried in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13239	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Vesna Markovic, and let Milena Turk be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13240	Thank you. Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, the Serbian Progressive Party, as a responsible political party, the party that primarily advocates raising the standard of living of our citizens, wants amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities to show in its case that the burden of economic reforms must be borne equally. This is another contribution to the root reform process that this government has begun. If the previous governments had acted responsibly, we would not be in this situation right now, and not only when it comes to political parties, but we would not be forced to cut wages and pensions. The standard of citizens was at a much lower level, but also higher unemployment than it is today, and at the moment when representatives of the regime then decided to increase their income to their own parties, directly before the parliamentary elections. Of course, it was completely irresponsible in such a situation. That's why I think a completely unfounded criticism has been sent to the SNS, that it could have proposed these changes so far, by those who voted to increase the amount that we want to reduce today, by a third which is about 35%, which is about 3.5m euros smaller for political parties on an annual basis, which is not a minor item in the budget. My colleagues have already mentioned that we can use this money to rebuild, build schools, kindergartens, hospitals. I totally agree with that. Political parties are beneficiaries of budget funds and not only in Serbia. The question is, why is that necessary? The answer is very simple, to prevent corruption and to make a decision of political parties without pressure from individuals in the interests of citizens and states. The paper also envisions these changes to publish a financial report on the Anti-Corruption Agency website. With regard to the submission of financial reports so far, the SNS has always fulfilled its obligations within the legal deadline, respecting the principles of transparency. It also speaks of a responsible attitude towards the state towards respect for the law, too. Both SNS will continue to make decisions in the interest of its citizens in the future. Finally, I call on all my colleagues to support the amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13241	Thank you, Mrs. Markovic. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk. Let the Parliament of People prepare Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13242	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties is very important, given the goals that are to be achieved. On the one hand, these are budget savings, and on the other hand it is strengthening citizens' confidence in political parties and political institutions. I would stress some members of this bill by risking myself to repeat what my predecessors said in their presentations. I would highlight Articles 16 and 20 in which the word "expension" is changed in the words "tax revenues". This is a key change in the law, except for one, and that the percentage to be allocated for party financing is reduced. The key thing is that you change the sides from which you take the percentage, it will now be tax revenues. It can be said that in the current Law on Political Parties, expenditure in the budget was as high as possible, that it was higher than income, that the budget deficit would be higher, because this meant that the percentage that is set aside for the parties would also be higher. These amendments of the law get in the way of that. In light of the reasons for the introduction of changes to this law, it states that a number of shortcomings and shortcomings have been observed in the application of the existing law, but also inconsistencies of certain members. The lack of clarity and uncertainty in the financing of political parties is never favourable and leads to citizens' mistrust. These amendments and additions to the draft law on the financing of political parties make it clear that political representatives want to introduce an orderly system which will be distinguished by transparency and accountability. It is precisely this law that is anti-corruption, which is characterized by this concept of responsibility and the public. This is one big step in regulating money flows in the police and, of course, control of election costs and financing of parties is needed. This law prescribes and obliges political parties to submit annual reports to the Agency, under Article 28 of this law. These reports must, of course, be clear, neat and timely, and will be available on the Agency's website. Access to traffic information in party registers is free, and all political entities will have to submit reports on their business. The law on the financing of political parties provides for sanctions for non-compliance with members of the law. These are, of course, fines. All these changes to the law will lead to savings in the budget, as well as strengthening citizens' confidence in political parties, institutions that control the financing of these parties. With all this in mind in voting day, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13243	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Have People's Parliament prepare for Vesna Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13244	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, today I will talk about the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities. One hundred twenty-eight SNS MPs signed a bill on amendments and additions to this law, and you will see in further presentation why. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 55. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia guaranteeing freedom of political parties, then unional and any other association. The Republic of Serbia also guarantees, regulate and ensure the achievement and protection of the freedom of citizens' rights, control of the legality of the availability of legal means, financial audit of public funds and other relations of interest for the Republic of Serbia. The law now in force has been or has been in force since 2011 full of shortcomings, the provisions are not in line and therefore we will amend this law. First of all, I'm going to talk about Article 11 that needs to be changed and that attitude that talks about how political parties finance themselves. In an old law still in force, political parties are financed in one way and from private sources of immovable property, as well as mobile assets can only be financed from private sources under this law. This is deleted in the new law, Article 11, and now the political party will be able to access its real estate in a number of ways, i.e. mobile and immovable property. It's primarily by buying, inheriting and legate. Why is it good? Because we may survive in politics today, tomorrow we may not already be here, but the children who come, that is, our heirs need to have other political ideas, and that is any kind of immovableity to educate themselves there, in order to be educated in many ways. We can bring in a variety of politicians, artists, so every kind of education. What I would point out, my colleagues have talked a lot about funding political parties, perhaps that for Serbian citizens to know how it works with us. To finance the regular work of political entities whose candidates have been elected as MPs and committees shall be provided with funds from public sources. According to the old law, Article 16 which I would very much like to stress, these funds from public revenue were taken from the budget expenditure and that percentage was 0.15%. What does that mean? It means that the loans received during this law, and even now, were intended for infrastructure and other problems, could be poured into other funds, or for political action, which is not good. Therefore, the SNS changes this position in Article 16 and says that instead of budget expenditure, tax revenues will now be used and that tax revenue of the Republic of Serbia will be 0.55%, a significant reduction, below one. Two, not only from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but also from tax revenues in the autonomous province and the local self-government unit. This is very important, because we only have savings on this member. You'll see where else we can save, if we're solidarity, and we're solidarity as the first representatives of the legislative authority with the people who chose us here first, and then with pensioners who have reduced pensions. Of course, there'll be reduced wages for us, and let them be even more, just to get this country out of the crisis. As for Article 19, I would also pay attention to that member, because he is talking about funding the work of political entities, and these funds are used to work with voters, then with membership. The transport costs go into it. Meetings, then printing of large brochures, publications also, various consultations with foreign political parties. Also for billboards, for paying public opinion on the data currently valid, that is, when it comes to the campaign. Also in Article 19, we have a reduction in expenditures. A very important member is also a 20th member of the election campaign. The pre-election campaign also comes from public sources. These were also budget expenditures and budget expenditures were 0.00%, which is a very high percentage. We are now reducing it and it will no longer be budget expenditure but will be tax revenue and will be 0.07%. Also, one big savings. What's there to say? It should be said that, when it comes to campaigns and when it comes to the political party, it must have its own account. The account is being deposited with funds, and only from that account is all expenditure, i.e. the cost of a political campaign. Each political party is obliged to submit a report to the Agency once a year, unless it does so, it will be sanctioned or punished. Also, when it comes to the campaign, after the campaign has been completed 30 days since the results were announced, each political party must also submit a report to the Agency on the amount of money it has received and on the amount of money it has spent, we simply do everything by law. This bill is extremely good because only by changing four members we have a three-and-a-half million-euro savings, that our citizens know that these funds that would go to political parties on billboards, publications and others can be used to build hospitals, schools, social institutions and help people who need this help. It is very important to point out that we are very solidarity with the people who chose us, not only that, but we simply have responsibility for them and in the day of voting my party, i.e. I, as their representative, will vote for, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13245	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Simic, to prepare Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13246	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we talked about the Law on the financing of political activities, and we will also talk in the rest of the work. However, we cannot talk about this law without first looking at what political parties are. The political party, it is a social phenomenon whose only strategic goal is to win power. Modern political parties play three basic roles. They are the organizers of the election, bearers of ideology and authorities, as said at the end of the 20th century, our prominent academic professor, Dr. Radomir Lukic. The first Law on the financing of political parties was adopted only in 2003, while all developed countries had the law passed by 1963. That's where we missed a 40-year-old behind the other developed countries. However, both this and the 2011 law had shortcomings in lack of transparency, fundraising and the need for the regular work of political entities, as well as the funds led by political campaigns. This is one of the shortcomings that needs to be removed from the proposed amendments and additions to the law, with significant reductions in funds financed by political parties from public sources. However, before I continue with further exposure, relating to the purpose of the proposed changes and the addition of the laws, I would like to point out that as a MP, I am extremely pleased with the fact that all entities in the Republic of Serbia are fully aware of the economic situation in which our country is presently found and that the responsibility and initiative for finding all possible solutions do not leave only a burden on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but MPs also contribute to finding a solution to the country's exit from this situation. That is why the amendments and additions of many laws were made precisely on the initiative of the MPs and, in this case, on the initiative of a group of 128 MPs, which I am also a signator. At the time when pensions and salaries are withdrawn, any and any boasting of any kind was inadmissible, and it was therefore necessary to adopt an emergency procedure and law on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political activities, and the reasons are the wishes and intentions of the proponents to distribute the burden of the financial crisis evenly to all social entities, to preserve the economic stability of the state, etc. We do not think from the ruling majority that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia think alike and that they are all thrilled with the laws we have passed in recent days, especially when it comes to reducing pensions and salaries. We know perfectly well that there are those who think and who wonder if this was the necessary solution. They had as a MP in my midst, a small number of citizens came to me with this question but immediately after the sentence – yes, it was necessary, people understood that because given the fact that they needed to receive another, two or three pensions and salaries, or to continue with the incomes slightly reduced and not all of them with reduced incomes, and they further defined themselves for the first one. But what is certain is that it is clear to our citizens that the government headed by our Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, is one responsible government and that this is the only government, that is, Alexander Vukic, as prime minister, has managed to dare take such a step. This isn't just an unpopular step, this is an extremely brave and heroic move. Citizens also like to make all decisions transparently and keep everything informed. For this reason, to stop boasting in all segments, even when political activities or political officials are at stake, and for the sake of greater transparency related to the way in which political entities are acquired and spent, it is also necessary to adopt this law. Money is power, i.e. it gives power to those who have it, and thus opens up the possibility for different abuses, and that is why, in the previous period, funding of political activities, both in our country and in the world, was both public and secret and more secret than in public, especially during illegal flows, foreign donations were made, and money was given to our hands, especially during election campaigns. This enabled the purchase of voters, as many people understand the smell of money more than they have their firm political conviction. In this purchase, it went to this point that even voters' signatures were bought for the submission of ballots without talking about buying votes or committees, etc. etc. So, with new legal solutions, the political party can arrive, as we have already heard today, in addition to mobile and immovable property, we will leave the immovable property, although some think it should not be adopted, leave it in an amanet for those who will come behind to continue with our political ideals and leave something tangible in their hands, because we are a relatively young political party, that they do not have to fight the problems we have struggled with, since at first we had neither room nor basic conditions to work with. Also today, there have been many words about the need to reduce sources of funding from public sources, with which I fully agree, fully agree with transparency, related to the final account that the party has to submit at the end of each year, which is submitted through the Agency, in a prescribed form prescribed by the Agency's Director, as well as on the specific account to which the campaign funds are allocated. I will no longer take up the time of the other MPs. In the voting day, I will support any proposed changes and additions. I hope all my colleagues do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13247	The word has Marko Atlagic, let Zoran Zivkovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13248	Dear Presidents, the Honorable President of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Babić, the honourable MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, are in front of us a very important law, both for the citizens of Serbia and for the political parties. This amendment and addition of the Law on the financing of political activities has its basis, in addition to other things, in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, who submitted here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to us, Members of the People's Parliament in April 2014. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to remind you, these exposés have been the most fundamental, the most comprehensive, the most concrete and the most extensive of all 72 exposés of the Prime Minister in Serbia since 1805, since the time of Prime Minister Prote Mateja Nenadovic's first until today. On page seven of the exposé, it also says that this government led by Mr. Vukic will work, among other things, to consolidate the Republic of Serbia's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment and addition of this law on the financing of political activities, in addition, contributes to that goal, i.e. Consolidate the Republic of Serbia's budget, if you want the AP Vojvodina and local self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, that's what SNS does. It's written, it's done. In light of the 2011 Law on Funding of Political Activities, which was adopted by the former regime, it has prescribed that political parties can only buy immovable property, undermining, only the funds that the party collects from private sources. Why isn't that good? Besides, it's precisely because immovable and mobile things make up the assets of political parties and serve as political activities. However, political activities by political parties are financed, among other things, from both public and private sources. That is why such a 2011 solution at the very least, you will agree, ladies and gentlemen, is not correct, it is not fair, it is not logical, it is not justified, and you have to agree and it is not, or very difficult and applicable. In addition, this makes the difference between the source of the funds, especially if they are collected in accordance with the law and in the prescribed amount. Why isn't it good yet? Well, it's not good that political parties can buy immovable property just, undermining, only funds collected from private sources. To whom did the respected citizens of Serbia go hand? In my opinion, it went to the hands of certain tycoons who funded individual political parties, and they, in return, believed or not, chose individual ministers and even if you will, and some former governments. That is why it is good that the SNS parliamentary group led by our esteemed Mr Zoran Babic has proposed these changes and additions, and our coalition partners today have accepted as we see it. Also, this bill reduces the withdrawal from the RS budget, AP Vojvodina and local self-government by, instead of my colleagues and colleagues said before, 0.15 tax expenditures, determining 0.115 tax not expenditures, but rather the revenues of the RS budget, AP Vojvodina and local self-government, which is, in my view, savings, as my colleagues said, around 30%. Imagine respected citizens of Serbia, that the former former regime has taken to finance political parties' 2011 legislation and the percentage of debt, it is a deficit of the RS budget, which means they have not taken care of the citizens of RS, nor the state of RS, but only of themselves and of their own pockets. This proposal contributes to the stability of public finances through a system of sustainable deficit financing. The SNS thus illustrates that it really does not only want to, but is working to realise the country's economic stabilisation programme as a whole, and is also harmonising this law with the Law on the RS Budget System. As you can see, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the honourable MPs, is bringing things into place. With these amendments and additions to the Law, we provide the availability of annual financial reports from political entities, to the general public, by publishing them on the Anti-Corruption Agency's website, as you see it all transparently. Finally, all in all, the implementation of the 2011 Law on the financing of political parties has shown a certain lack and uncertainty of certain provisions, which corrects this bill to the satisfaction of the national MPs and citizens of RS. I call on you ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, especially from opposition parties, to give your vote to amend the Law on the financing of political activities, because you will best contribute to at least a little economic stabilisation and modernisation of Serbia, which the RS government is keenly favoured for with President Vukic and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13249	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13250	It's very good that this law is due to public pressure. Of course, the proposings didn't do it either because just 15 days ago they remembered the need for changes in legal solutions concerning funding of political activities in Serbia, but it was the result of a publicly done text by a journalist who concluded that the budget's rebalancing would, if I remember correctly, increase the level of funding of the parties from the budget, which would of course be totally unacceptable and after that, two proposals appeared under public pressure. I'm sure there was a chance of making a deal about those two proposals, but I'm not getting into that part. So, the fairy tale of the genius of the reform idea to cut the costs of political parties has come from the Prime Minister, although he is not, as far as I can see, the legislator of this law is not true. Public pressure is good. I hope there will be more examples like that. Of course, it would have been better if the bill had provided for a solution that would involve a progressive reduction of funds for political parties. This means that parties now receiving over 5m euros annually, as is the case with the largest ruling SNS party, and only from Serbia's budget, not to add the province's budget, local self-government, means fivem euros, ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens. The smallest parties, of course, get some crumbs and that's fair. Of course you can't get the same level. As for the party I run, not to keep the public from being denied that information, it's somewhere around, it's now a million and 40,000 a month, meaning on an annual level something below 100,000 euros. Of course there must be a difference in the size of the party, representation in parliament, but such a big difference, five million on one side, is really something that will be difficult for Serbian citizens to accept. Of course, this is just part of the money spent by political parties. Of course, abuses of ruling parties in the use of resources given to them by the public sector are very present. Whether it was a cash spill on a variety of grounds, which, of course, was unfortunately a public secret, by using the resources of all these public enterprises. I have one proposal, let's say, to cut the dramatic costs for election campaigns. Let us, if not at this time, introduce a legal obligation in some subsequent quick amendment to the law, or ban commercial advertising in the election campaign. That's what huge money has been used for, especially in the last seven or eight years. The last campaign I participated in, where I could control the flow of money, was about 2003, and then the whole campaign, all the billboards, TV, flyers, fuel and everything was under one million euros for the party that was the largest in Serbia at the time. Today, last elections talk about 10, 15, 20m euros and the question is, where is this money going? My proposal is that all parties agree and make such a legal solution that there is no commercial advertising. This means that the campaign goes through electronic and written media, through dual shows, where the parties will receive space, for example, proportionate to one's strength in the previous assembly of parliament. This would be a savings that would be measured by a few dozen million euros, not by about two or three, as it is now. That would be one serious measure to cut huge costs. If we don't, this will be a cosmetic measure. We'll vote for her, we're not against her, and cosmetics sometimes make sense. But this law will not prevent abuses where they are huge and that are happening today. Therefore, we have all witnessed that in some of the elections that were used this year, both the beatings and the cash and the chain packages and various other ways of bribing voters. It has to be interrupted and I've made a suggestion on how to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13251	Time. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13252	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the previous speaker for teaching me that it seems that Mr. Pajtic has provided the majority for his reconstructed government, perhaps even with the beatings, that he has not paid everything. It's okay, let the authorities investigate and let them give their judgment. I don't really believe the chain packages are support for Bojana Pajtic, but I don't rule out beatings as a possibility. What I would like to remind you is that the first Law on the financing of political parties, then called it, was adopted in 2003 and began in 2004. This principle and the way of distribution of funds from public finances is the same as is applied now, so that all this criticism that goes in the way of the distribution of funds, which I heard from an esteemed colleague, is a criticism of ourselves, because we didn't add anything, we're no longer a party to the SNS. This reduction is a linear reduction, and the difference between a million and four thousand dinars, not 40,000 dinars, to be exact as many as the New Party has – one million and four thousand and 056 dinars, the difference in influence in both the political system and the impact in our society and the responsibility in our society for a party that has so far not shown itself in the elections for the local community, where I had the pleasure of meeting the third member of that party, the chairman of the City Committee in Nis and no one else, is not an adequate amount and the difference that SNS has from both public and public finances, and not even by the number, or by that amount of SNS per MP, although it is as if we are somewhere in the market, unfortunately, of 300,000 dinars, unlike the New Party, which, which with the amount of millions and four thousand dinars, one MP is 500 thousand dinars. So even there's a imbalance, and I think we're equal in front of God and in front of citizens. In this case, it turns out we didn't. The solutions provided for by both the 2003 law and the 2011 law have not been changed now, just so we don't have an imputation – here, change something, so they have more. No, I don't. But as the burden of the crisis is overrunning almost all citizens of Serbia, it is so normal and natural that part of the crisis in public finances is accepted linearly by all, unless the previous speaker wanted in his speech to say that he would want more funds and more funds to be taken away from the SNS, so that more funds would be given to the New Party. I don't rule that out, although politically it would be very incomprehensible and very bad. We haven't changed any of the conditions, except this law on financing political activities is in line with the Budgetary System Act. In the second part, which is more significant, which is that the percentage of the allocation to finance political parties from 0.150% to 0.105% and what you said is that the campaign funds are reduced, and this is reduced from 0.1% to 0.07%. I don't think there's any valid reason not to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13253	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13254	I think we have a constant problem here with something being heard and something not being heard and something being invented, so it's like a sound. So I said we'd vote for this bill and there's no doubt about it. I consider it cosmetic, not good enough, and sometimes "Paulovic's fat" is good to begin with. I didn't mean what was going on in the Duke's Assembly the other day. When I was talking about batins, sugar sacks and stuff, I was thinking about the Maydanpek elections, Zajecar, before that in Vrbas, and that's what your activists used, maybe without your personal knowledge, might have gone rogue. Like these guys went to Doneck, so maybe these guys took some beatings. If we were naive, we might as well believe it. As for the campaign money, you didn't give me an answer to my proposal to refrain from commercial advertising. With respect to this three-and-a-half million-euro savings, I think it would be much more significant to save a few-tenths. I think it's rough about 35 million euros. So much less would be spent from the budget, directly and indirectly, and citizens' money if campaigns for elections were without those commercial ads, which usually rarely make any sense. The mahogany is the result of a photoshop and a bad script, and there's a lot of money being spent on it. I wish, not today, it doesn't matter today, from someone who could give me an answer to such a question, to get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13255	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. I don't know how you can comment on the Vrbas campaign I personally ran when you didn't exist. Thank you. The word has a representative of Proposer Zoran Babic. (Gordana Comić, from town: Replica. I think I'm entitled to two minutes. I'm sorry, Mr. Babico, I don't understand what Mrs. Comic is saying. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13256	The possible right to replica, since it remained unclear about what kind of beatings, where the beatings, because there is a case of an identified person named Dane Pribić, who was beaten, so I don't see that this should be the topic of this debate, but I also don't see any reason to deny that there have been beatings of activists in local elections in various cities, including in Vrbas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13257	Mrs. Comic, here, I gave you a chance to say this, but I don't know what you're going to say. The word is Mr. Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13258	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition to your name here in the list of MPs, according to the application, it says "no sign for or against", so it remains unclear whether you will vote for or against this, but I accept, if you say so, and now it is very clear that you will vote for this amendment. I also thank you for, now, figuring out that Bojan Pantic did not use beatings, but he used cash and financial resources. So we're removing the beatings, but the cash stays. It's also a good sign for the authorities to focus on the right things. As far as suggestion is concerned, what I talked about in the previous days with representatives of NGOs, civil society, transparency and one idea that came from and can be talked about, not to ban commercials, because commercial advertising, I don't see any country in the world that has banned commercial advertising or anything in the campaign, no matter how meaningful or pointless they are. There's no example anywhere to forbid. What we can do is that even what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing spends as much as it has, to limit the amount, to limit the amount of campaign. In order not to get into a situation where some extra-parliamentary parties, who are left without leaders, but others with inherited huge debts, are also the list on which Mr. Zivkovic was on, not to challenge him in a replica, but as a fact that the party has also remained in huge debt. How do you get back? How to pay? They are no longer able to enter the Vojvodina Development Bank and say – good afternoon, we came for coffee, juice and money. It's impossible. So that we don't put some people in a situation that didn't affect such decisions, that they wouldn't come into such a situation, that's what we can talk about. But ban commercial advertising in election campaigns, so it doesn't exist anywhere in the world. No country in the world has banned advertising. I don't see why they would invent something that's impossible and that's inapplicable anywhere, but that communication should exist, there should be a way for our political system to experience a certain evaluation. I think that after 24, 25 years of modern history of parliamentaryism in Serbia, citizens expect it from us.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13259	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13260	That's right. You should have given me a word earlier. Article 107. - the dignity of the Assembly. Someone here was talking about rogue MPs, alluding to me. You know, Mr. Chairman, I don't have to justify myself to anyone in my life where I'm going to travel privately, I don't believe anyone here has to, but when you're Prime Minister, and you're going secretly to Segedin to sell Beopetrol pumps and damage the state of Lukoil, then you have to tell the citizens. The state didn't pay me my way. I went out on my own on my own, and the gentleman damaged the state by selling its property secretly, so no one knows, at the gas stations in Segedin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13261	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica. Just to be clear, you do not have the right to reply to Mr Djukanovic, because he does not have the right to replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13262	Will you let me talk?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13263	Allow me, but you have a replica of Mr. Babic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13264	Of course that's why I called. Do you really think that what you don't understand needs to be explained to others? I called before a colleague came forward after that for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, I didn't say no commercial advertising. There's nothing on the market that can be banned. I have proposed a political agreement by political parties to refrain from commercial advertising. The effect is the same, keeping free market rules and keeping no one from any revenue unless we decide to be thrifty, so we don't spend it on another campaign. The question isn't rhetorical, it's a serious question, and you study with who you need to solve it with. A very difficult pain must make someone imagine the situation that the prime minister of any country goes to a nearby country at a gas station to sell national wealth. It can't be someone who's stupid. It has to be someone who's very evil. I think that's the message he wanted to say the last speaker before me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13265	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13266	Thank you. Since, on behalf of the promoter and as president of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic has several times shared his position with us on what is happening in the Vojvodina Assembly and for which is the responsibility of DS President and Prime Minister Bojan Pajtic, my replica is the most well-intentioned, since I do not know for which reasons as a proponent, MP Zoran Babic, all of his remarks and thoughts he has, apparently very often, about Bojan Pajtic and DS directs other MPs. I told you at the beginning – I am available to you and to file criminal charges against me and to file criminal charges against the president of the DS and that you are looking within what is the business procedure for all data on the investigation against DS, if any, all data on the debts that DS has. I am at your disposal as an authorised representative of the DS Group now and here. There's no need to sideline any MP, without wanting to direct me, to any of your morning thoughts, apparently strong, about disqualifying the president of the DS. Talk to me and I'll answer you, and all your calls to the police and the D.A. can be translated into official requests. There's no need to avoid direct communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13267	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Babic, who is proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13268	I think that we today and in the days behind us, but in the days ahead, we communicated very directly. I have no fear or need to look down in front of anyone, not look someone in the eye and say what I mean. I don't need to file criminal charges. It is enough that I was very transparent and publicly this morning at the time when parliamentary questions were asked the question of the Minister of the Interior – what was all this about the conclusion and the very principled DS radical and outlaw refugees, I no longer know what to call, coalitions in the AP Vojvodina. On the other hand, again, without a desire to challenge the replica, I will just mention Mr. Zivkovic's speaker and some insinuations as voices occur. Besides, why are you ashamed of Mr. Zivkovic, you were on the list together, helped you cross the censorship? I'm putting that sign of equality. It doesn't matter. I was communicating with Mr. Zivkovic, quite correctly, unlike any previous time, does not mean anything indirectly. You were on the same list, you shared values, you were helped by a man to cross the census. I don't see any reason why you think it's something side-by-side right now, that it's a detour of anything. That the ugly things outside the law were happening when the majority came together and when we called this session of the Vojvodina and the reconstructed government and all that, I just saw it as a chance to get to the truth. Was it the beatings, was it some money, what was in the optics? We can insinuate here. Finally, I agree, they must be given by the competent state authorities. That is why this morning, very responsiblely, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I asked such a question, not indirectly, not through the minutes, not bravely in the hallway, here, in the National Assembly, because it is a question raised by Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina, who are blocked because the province's administration is not working, the secretaries are not working. There are messengers in the building, or in the cities, and in the municipalities where they live. They count to 61, 62, 63, whichever. Are they doing their job? They're not doing their job. Afterwards, who is responsible because Vojvodina from the top of the development scale in Serbia has reached the bottom? Then who's responsible why is such unemployment in Vojvodina? Who's responsible for everything that's been going on...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13269	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, don't throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13270	... And what's going on? If you don't think it's a place here in the House of National Assembly to ask such questions for a beautiful, beautiful part of Serbia, then you're definitely wrong. That it's an indirect question, it's not. It's not. I used the debate with Mr. Zivkovic, with whom you were on the election list. You've been helped by a man to enter parliament and I don't see why you're rejecting him now. Why are you ashamed of such a move now? Don't do that, it's not fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13271	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic, a replica. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13272	National MP Zoran Babic misreads everything I say out of desire to say what he thinks.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13273	It's not enough. It must be in a negative context and must be mentioned by the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13274	It's a client. I'm an authorised representative of the DS. The president of the D.S. is the president of the provincial government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13275	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13276	There is one sentence in all this content that MP Zoran Babic is trying to disqualify both the province government and the president of the DS, which provides incorrect data on both employment and everything. So, only one part of the sentence relating to Mr Zoran Zivkovic, to our co-operation, every day in the DS while he was a member and deputy president of the DS, who was then president of Zoran Djindjic, at every rally, at every election campaign, on every strategic conversation, on every day, when unfortunately he was his own, and I was at one point convinced, unfortunately throughout Serbia, but the smiles on various faces assured me that it wasn't unfortunately all of Serbia, when the murder of Zoran Djindjic became prime minister every day of that government, every day after the 28 December 2003 elections, on every day when he left the DS and formed the New Party, on all that we worked together for these 25 years, I can only be proud. What I've asked you nicely is that all you have as a remark about DS refer to me. If you want, you can do the same to Zoran Zivkovic. On every day, Sablje, every result he had in the negotiations, on every show on June 21st 2003 when he submitted an application for EU membership, yes, big results, but it's about DS, not Mr Zoran Zivkovic, so all you want to ask, and I will answer everything you think happened in Vojvodina and not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13277	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I gladly signed this proposal, but I wanted it to be a more significant savings... Go ahead, Mr. Becic. If anyone was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13279	You can't wait for Mr. Zivkovic to leave the O.R. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13280	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wanted a little more. I signed this proposal, but I asked that the law be processed in a certain way by some other content. However, since I believe that small savings are always good and big profits, I support every reduction in public expenditure, including this. I also support the opposition's savings unity, given that this law was passed, the basic Law on the financing of political parties or political activities, in 2003 and it was established for further and further laws. He was brought in at a time when I was an MP and came into force only on 1 January 2014. My party, which went to the polls alone, although the small one received up to 76,000 votes, was not a beneficiary of public funds for the regular financing of political parties. So this time, just for the sake of the viewer, they should know that unlike some other small parties, we gave up funding in favour of the majority coalition member, since we believe that one small party, with small costs, can be supported without public sources, and that our majority coalition partner had significant costs in the election campaign, and in a certain way, since we didn't have them, we wanted to return them. I don't consider it a privilege, but for the sake of citizens, who often ask us about the funds for regular funding. My political organization People's Peasants' Party doesn't get that money. The coalition's majority partner gets 360,000 dinars per month per term, while these smaller parties have the advantage, I'm not angry because they're opposition, and they get 502,000 dinars per term. The one that gets the most 502,000 dinars. Also, I don't mind, because I'm a small political organization myself. If someone wants to use those funds and someone doesn't want to, it's their internal stuff. What I've been for and for, and it's not my request for the law to be processed by other things. I know that the president of a former regime's political party told his members to establish as many NGOs as possible ahead of the elections. I hope you remember that. This is my fellow MPs. They know who it's about. So the party president and then the president of the state asked his members to establish as many NGOs as possible and thus raise funds for the election campaign and funds for the financing of political parties. This parallel financing of political parties through NGOs that amend these and supplement laws around which there is a broad consensus, so I will vote for it, so this law did not cover it. I don't know if he could handle it, to ban the financing of political parties from parallel sources, or through NGOs. Also, with this law, the basic law, which complements this law, we also have a ban on the financing of political parties from foreign sources, or abroad. It's forbidden, but it's not practically implemented. I must remind you that one party, which has not recently been there, has been used by the Friedrich Neuman Foundation, so it has funded their election campaign, conferences, stands, guests, staff training. Therefore, funding of foreign political parties is prohibited by law. This law has not been affected by the amendments and additions, but I have had the objection to not implementing the provisions of the law on the financing of political parties abroad, a team before the founder of this Friedrich Neuman foundation had a very negative stance on Serbs, so the Foundation, whose name he bears, is also not very friendly, and our law defends the financing of political parties from abroad, but in various ways avoids and controls is almost nothing. And also where I had an objection, and I can't change everything, is funding from private sources and I fully support the intensity to limit it. I believe our economy is poor. I believe the funds are being saved by 35% from public sources. It is indicative that the law that has been in force so far favoured the state's responsibility. Therefore, the more the country was in debt, the more it was in debt to the state, the more expenditure it had, i.e. through higher expenditures, the higher the remuneration of political parties, because the percentage was based on expenditure rather than revenue, and the expenditure was often higher than income for several hundred billion. So the basis of this law has been amended and I fully support it. As for private sources, I would like it to be limited, not by us, but because certain tycoons, which have been funded by some former regime parties, can again come up with the idea of investing huge sums of money and trying in such a way, an incorrect way to influence the will of citizens. I object to the fact that so far the laws treat the electoral lists, but the groups of citizens are favored by political parties, especially on the subject of the report. My colleague Honey knows that. They go to elections, take money, a group of citizens no longer respond to anyone, no registered legal person, no need to submit reports, while we who have political parties and how we are subject to rigorous control by a group of citizens are almost impossible to determine. So I support what changes this law, the basic law that was passed a little bit after the former prime minister was dancing outside the JSO headquarters in The Tower. I have to say, in the end, I'm unhappy that Doneck is being mentioned here all the time. I'll admit, I wanted to go to Doneck but I got caught in the fall season. So I wanted to go with my colleague Djukanovic and Blazic, but since it was the autumn work I didn't get there. I wanted to go to Doneck not to see modern vineyard plantings, or to see goats drinking September wine. I wanted to see the ruins. I wanted to see the consequences of the war. I wanted to see what an army of one state could do to its citizens. That's why I wanted to go to Donetsk. I don't blame my colleagues, but I resent those who see something bad in it, a team before we ourselves were the victims of a brutal bombing, and we know very well how we feel when we're being bombed by some great force. So, regardless of nationality, whoever died in that kind of bombing, I'm always on the side of whoever was bombed and who was the victim.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13281	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13282	I thank the chairman, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that lawmakers do not realize how bad this proposal is and how superficial it is at the end of the day. Proposers didn't understand the essence of the existence of this law. It is not essential to abolish certain opposition parties. It is essential to form a democratic society and atmosphere in which it is worth living. It is essential to offer full visibility of all sources of funding, both for the regular activities of political entities and for those who are extraordinary when the elections are discussed. Certain provisions of this law were the subject of analysis and experts from the civil sector, "transparency of Serbia" gave high quality and good comments, also from domestic independent bodies such as the Anti-Corruption Agency and various international organisations. Finally, any comments concerning the visibility of the funding source or the fair availability of political entities on the political scene or on the control of the legality and financial work of political parties and entities are not taken into account by this SNS proposal. The disadvantages of this proposal are all kinds. In addition to the fact that the signatories of this bill will enter the annals of this House because they have deleted a completely wrong member of the existing law, then called the bill in their very explanation a draft, not to mention so-called. The tax revenues of the AP Vojvodina which do not exist at all and many other things. What is essential was not even about topics such as the use of public resources in election campaigns, and this is a very important topic that we have had several times today to hear. The SNS proposal does not cover those situations when the alleged regular activities of political parties and public officials are carried out at the time of the election campaign and only for the purpose of pre-election media promotion. I will give the example we had almost in Majdanpek when Minister Vulin opened the Social Labour Centre, just then Minister Udovic was opening a gym. At the same time, various ministers flew helicopters, came and went, and thus used public resources for the purpose of an election campaign. Under two, a very important topic is pre-election programs and their verifiableness. This is a topic that interests Serbian citizens for the simple reason that this proposal does not have at all the obligation for political entities to have a pre-election programme, that political entities, in case they get voter support, have a pre-election programme that is realistic in reality. We must never allow ourselves, as a society, as in 2012, to have those pre-election promises, just remember, very well, the Morava-Wardar channel to the Aegean Sea, that we will never again have pre-election promises of 100 billion euros or that of 10 billion euros a year, and then, finally, when you win enough voter support to provide citizens with a reduction in wages and pensions. So we think that this programme should be a mandatory part of the documentation for participation in the elections and should contain the elements needed to assess feasibility in reality. Well, then, for example. Some fiscal advice was called on to give an opinion on the feasibility of a pre-election programme. In the end, we're not strange, and we're not surprised that the SNS gave up on it. The urgent procedure under which this law is just one of the many laws that has entered the Assembly in the same way does not allow for serious debate on these topics, on a series of remarks and obvious shortcomings at the end which have been seen in all these comments, from the speed and surface that follows that speed, the definitions of the proposed changes are controversial and require further explanations. My intention is to just point out the greatest shortcomings in this amendment and supplementation. In Article 1, we have a very controversial situation. Why do you propose as signatories to this proposal that political parties acquire immovable property from public sources? Several times today I had the opportunity to listen to the answers and in no way in the end to hear a concrete reason why it was allowed and what is the essence of the idea that budget funds not only finance the necessary costs of political entities and actors, but also allow for the purchase of immovable property. Why would all taxpayers' money in Serbia be spent on building and acquiring real estate by political parties, in this case primarily SNS, which is the biggest beneficiary of these funds? In the case of a work called – the use of funds to finance the regular work of political entities in Article 3. The bill reads, quotes "The funds for the financing of the regular work of political entities are also used to finance the costs of the election campaign in accordance with this law", the end of the quote. This means that there is no difference between funds from private and public sources. The effect of this is the possibility that the funds received from the budget for one purpose – funding of regular activities, are used for a completely different purpose during the election campaigns. This would mean, in addition to being singled out twice for the same purpose, that it is possible to create an atmosphere of a continuous election campaign that lasts independently of whether the elections are or not. We have this somewhere from the end of 2008 until today, that Serbia lives in a continuous election campaign for six years. This would mean that parliamentary political parties, especially those who have the largest number of MPs in some assembly, would be highly privileged to the other participants of the election race, in this case, of course, the largest SNS assembly party. In Article 4, instead of determining the percentage of expenditure financed by regular political activities from the budget, one newspaper was introduced, that the sum of money was regulated on the basis of the tax revenues of the Republic, the province, the local self-government. I am very eager to hear the answer to the question – what tax revenues does Vojvodina have? Several times today, we have pointed to this thing that is simply impossible or there is no law, and it says in this proposal to amend and supplement the law. We are also very interested in what the Anti-Corruption Agency thinks about this law, because I think it is very important that the opinion of such independent bodies, or simply for individual MPs, signatories is no longer relevant for certain reasons. The intention is not to propose in this case the visibility of the source of funding, which is the essence of the existence of this law. The intention is to drown in this way what little opposition remains in Serbia. I think it's very important that this isn't a matter that the SNS thinks is doing any good. I think this is a damage primarily to the society and citizens of Serbia. Under the pretext of saving tax bonds, the sugar cube is saved daily. Every taxpayer's sugar cube daily by reducing the funding of regular activities of political entities, and on the other hand, it loses and increases the huge danger of democracy in Serbia being silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13283	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word is proposed by MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13284	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know where to start. Here, from the middle. Yes, it is envisaged that public funds finance the purchase of real estate, because it is normal, decent and natural to stay and leave a roof over its head for future generations, because we do not have many other parties on the political scene of Serbia, a villa in Kronska for a few thousand dinars a month or a year, we do not have a magistrate in Zemun, as your coalition partners do. We've seen that without the magistrate, you couldn't even vote the province government, or survive the government in Vojvodina. We don't, and they don't have many other political parties either. If you haven't heard what I've been saying on several occasions, and I believe you've been in the O.R., but you didn't want to hear how much SNS wants us to leave more orderly and political actors and political parties baffled for future generations, to create centres where the education of young people will be done, and you're a young man who has passed many such centres. The least I expected of you is understanding for such people, for your colleagues, some better people who will lead your party in a better, fairer way, that they can be educated, but in their own space, not in some rented space. As for choking the opposition, as you said, I would like you to return to 2011 when such a law on funding political activities was passed in the National Assembly, when, according to Mrs Elvira Kovac, we saw that one proposal went to the government and the other came to the Assembly for adoption. Under the SNS proposal, a parliamentary party with 21 MPs received zero dinars. Don't, please, talk about shutting down and suppressing the opposition, because our memory and memory of Serbian citizens is much further than it was in 2011. It dates a lot, a lot longer, because they put up with it on their skin. As for funding from private sources, non-transparent, I'll read you an article. Due to the suspicion that a group of connected persons has been unlawfully and without a lease of more than 1,000 ha, no less than 1,000 ha, the state agricultural land on the territory of the Kovin municipality, the Association of small and medium-sized agricultural producers and cattlemen "Clip" from Gai near Kovin in the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime has filed criminal charges against members of the municipal commission, according to Pistalska. This land was used for many years by the company, remember, “Atel” DOO from Kovin and children of the company's owner who was a donor. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whose donor? Democratic parties. Here is the DS website – "Atel" Kovin DOO, 150,000 dinars on 13 April 2012. From where these funds were taken, received, and what counterservice measured in thousands of hectares, here is this article. We have some pretty big paperwork here, and I believe that this session of the Assembly would take a deep night if each of these articles and criminal charges were filed, but I don't think I could be able to tell and read everything. The annals of this house will the parliamentary group who has proposed a bill with an explanation write a draft rather than a proposal? I do not believe that anyone in Serbia is interested, but that a parliamentary group will come in, but also those parliamentary groups that support the reduction of funds and the remaining of these funds in the budget, as my colleague Risticevic said, is enough to buy 2,000 cows, for example, in Serbia and to share in agricultural holdings both for reproduction and production. Imagine now that one value and to be employed in this way how many people and how many agricultural holdings or what Mr. Bozovic wants, to remain more money for billboards, for political games. I think those who adopted such a law in 2011 will enter into the annals of this National Assembly, which as the largest ones raised the amount of public funding, because they basically even put in place those loans they owed. Imagine now, we took credits to take DS percent of these loans for our political activities. Will it enter the annals of this National Assembly? I believe they will, because if it were different, they'd probably still create the fate of this country, and they wouldn't have sent it into history, and that's just the way it's legal, legitimate and normal, and that's in the election. One more thing that really has nothing to do with this bill, but it was said – promises. Promises, gentlemen. The Serbian Progressive Party has pledged heavy measures in the 2014 elections, has pledged denials. We didn't put pink glasses on our citizens' eyes. We talked about the state of public finances and everything we had to go through to make those public finances better and not go bankrupt. In 2012, the liquidity of the budget was 15 days. Fifteen days, half a pension, half a professor's salary, half a doctor's salary, half a cop's salary, half a soldier's salary. That's what the former regime left behind. The same regime that sheds tears, crocodile tears pours out at those pensioners, for those employees in the state administration who, in this I am extremely grateful, will suffer and help the state to recover public finances, to receive and to endure the medications that have been received by all the regulated countries, but in time. Where would we end up if in 2008, 2009 and 2010, we hadn't exactly grown into, in debt, if we hadn't spent our time in a senseless way, if we'd been saving back then? If we'd saved SNS like that, maybe it wouldn't have been a chance to come to power, but it would have been better for my country. I'm not questioning it at all. Why didn't you do that? Promises, 2008, 2007 – 200,000 new jobs. Do you know how many times Boris Tadic has sent us out from 200,000 new jobs? Four years later, from 13.6 to over 26% of Serbia's unemployment rate. There are 400,000 people left without a job. What about those promises? Pussy, dots don't work, forget it, play the kids. We're not children, we're not playing games, we're not allowed to play games. Promises? The distinguished Professor Marko Atlagic spoke nicely to you, the exposé of the Prime Minister Mr. Vukic was long here, lasted four hours. Not to show your endurance and faith in what he wrote and predicted and gave the task to himself and his team to do. It's a kind of, sort of talk and promise, applicable and verifiable. That's why after 100 days, we haven't said – give us a hundred days to see where our cabinets are, get to know our secretaries and cell phones. We said, "Give us a hundred days to fulfill what we said in a hundred days." The government was here after a hundred days, and after a hundred days, six months. 5We are ready to check, because this exposé of Alexander Vukic is so large and so large, because we want him to be verifiable here in this home of the National Assembly. You want me to take out Mirko Cvetkovic's comics? You want me to take out the pictures and fairy tales of the other prime ministers, and what have they promised you, and what have they fulfilled? You want me to take out the stenograms of how many times here Boza Djelic jumped behind this speaker, here, and in King Milan, and spoke – we will be a full member of the EU in 2004 and 2007, 2008, 2012, even though you knew well that such a thing was needed to roll up the sleeves, to bring the legislation in line, to convince our people to do it for us, and not that some Europe, Brussels, had forced us to do anything. We're doing this for us. Because that's what this country needs. So don't, please, you're a young man, the future, the perspective is ahead of you, just don't talk about promises, because it's so slippery for the DS that you're falling already on the first step. This law has been made and as an authorised representative of the promoters, I have spoken to NGOs, with representatives of the civil sector, and I am grateful for the suggestions. Look at this. This is the material that I exchanged for days before this discussion and I will exchange with, let's say, Mr. Nenadić out of transparency. Do not think that you have the sole and exclusive right to communicate and behave as necessary. In one long, exhaustive conversation yesterday, we exchanged thinking and we are close to the fact that this bill is essentially intended for public sector savings, to save public finances, to save you both both the side and the other, not to disturb, not to choke. I'm sorry that you referred to the NGO sector, and you didn't mention the parties that are extraparliamentary for which they showed great concern. I appreciate that, because the extraparliamentary parties don't have access to public finances. Public finances only have access to parties that have their own MPs, i.e. parliamentary groups. You didn't care about those people. They should, they're your coalition partners. The Serbian Radical Party is out-of-parliamentary, but your coalition partners are days ago. You should take care of them. You didn't show it in your speech. This law is one small step, but one small step towards healing public finances. A small sacrifice necessary to bring political factors to Serbia's political scene. One small step on the road that Serbia expects, because our country is in such a state where we cannot sleep, where there is no day, there is no night, there is no holiday when we stop, let alone turn behind us and move backwards. It's such a time that we have to take constant steps no matter how small or large, important or irrelevant, but constant steps, because if we stop, we're done. The trip is not a government trip, it's not a SNS trip, it's a state trip. I know that you will say, "Well, you are the same with the state. No, I don't need to act here and have something I'm not. This is one small step, and if one can say that three, three and a half million euros will remain in the budget, little and unnecessary, and better to end up on billboards, and better to end up on posters, instead of ending up in a loaf of bread, in a chocolate that Mr. Canak, as he calculated, will be able to buy his grandson because his parents don't work. Don't put that sign of equality on account of a simple political struggle, devast some of the things that we should all agree on, and I am grateful to the colleagues who announced that they would vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13285	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13286	Thank you. In a two-minute replica, it is never good to display untrue data that is easy to check. So, with 2011 law, the most money from the budget was won by the opposition party. The opposition parliamentary group, and none of the ruling majority groups. So it was the Serbian Radical Party. That was the most money. The reason why I am correcting Mr Zoran Babic's false information, who said it was different, is that I remained in the minority when MP Tomislav Nikolic, after the founding of the SNS, submitted a bill that would fund parliamentary groups. And then and now I think that idea was good for consideration and unfortunately I stayed in the minority. Why was that proposal submitted? Because MPs who, fully legitimate and legal with MP Tomislav Nikolic formed SNS, could not have access to sources of public finances because it would be illegal. The law on financing political activities knows only political parties and lists that were in the elections. Therefore, and there, MP Zoran Babic was right, the SNS had access to public sources and budgets all the time, without actually having as a parliamentary group the total number of MPs for which the source of public funding from the budget was intended. In view of that then, I thought there might be a way to find a compromise solution. Unfortunately, that wasn't possible. But it's not true that DS passed the law because it was the biggest party that had the most funds. No, it was the opposition Serbian Radical Party, which is now out-of-parliamentary. I agree with another idea, which is that the law on financing all off-parliamentary parties should be classified in any way as complicated as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13287	The word has a representative of the promoter, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13288	Now we're in one collegiate. Although we are going back to that year needlessly in 2011, in 2011, your current coalition partner, who you seem to have nursed since then, had fewer MPs, and most money. How? If in the meantime we have passed the law that every MP is the owner of his mandate. I thank you for being in the minority, you made your point. It is true that the MP group "Forward Serbia" SNS, and its president Tomislav Nikolic, passed the law, but the law on which the public procurement we proposed in 2011. There was no suggestion, no request to cut the number of MPs from 250 to 150. So much for how much communication was not at the time, when another majority, parliamentaryly decided on life and on how this parliament functioned, as well as Serbia. But you also confirmed that the SNS did not receive a single dinar from the Republic of Serbia's budget at the time. Not a single penny. But we didn't go to Agrobank, we didn't go to Vojvodina Development Bank, we didn't go to the Vojvodina Development Bank, for additional funds for the honorable word, but we went to the Kingdom, and we built and built six families in six houses, and we provided construction material for another 250 households. Not out of public finances, but because we have acted and acted socially responsible, showing an example to others, who unfortunately have not followed us. We didn't think about billboards then, or posters, but about people in Serbia who are threatened, what we are doing now. The illogicalness entered by the former regime, which is that the parliamentary group that had fewer MPs received funds as if it were more, as if it were the biggest, I can only take it as an investment in the future which DS was doing at that time, because we see that this investment was now paid off through a coalition with the SRS, through what they paid through public finances for the support they received in 2014, through the support that Bojan Pajtic received a few days ago, they did not pay from their sources, they paid from public funds, from the funds of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to thank the previous speaker for really giving us this dilemma that has been shaking Serbia for several days, which is the dilemma solved, and I see, and I know that paying for something that is not yours is against the law both DS and Bojan Pajtic have committed a crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13289	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. He's not in the O.R. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13290	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens, is today on the agenda of this respected home being the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities, proposed by the SNS parliamentary group. I would like to express my satisfaction as to why this distinguished home is increasingly discussing proposals submitted by certain parliamentary groups, and I believe that this is how the reputation of this home is fully affirmed. However, I would like to express my hope that in future work we will have more on the agenda the draft laws tabled by the opposition parliamentary groups, not only the ruling ones, and that we too will be able to contribute, as I have said to the National Assembly's affirmation. The SDS parliamentary group will have draft laws that will be sent in the coming period together with our partners from the Green Serbia party and, as I said, I hope they will be on the agenda, and if they do not find that we will get an adequate explanation. I would also like to express my satisfaction that we have continuity in work, and not only criticism of the former regime, as could be heard several times in today's debate and what some frameworks, not to mention, all the solutions found in previous laws adopted in the National Assembly, represent a starting, basic, or upgrade base. However, in order to even discuss this draft law on the agenda today, we must also refer to the Law on the financing of political activities adopted in 2011, which ceased to apply the Law on the financing of political parties adopted in 2003, and where the financing of political parties was for the first time. When the law was passed, he expanded the scope because he also included political actions that take place outside political parties, in some other political forums, such as citizens' associations, and therefore the name bears the Law on the financing of political activities. The law regulates sources and ways of funding, records and control of the financing of political activities, political parties, coalitions and groups of citizens. It is prescribed that funding sources can be public and private, which are closer to being defined. Public sources, as we all know, are budget funds, and the intention was to make political parties independent of donors, thus excluding the possibility of affecting individuals within political parties. Criminal provisions have also been provided for, as well as a criminal offence which stipulates that whoever gives, on behalf of and on behalf of a political entity, obtains funds for the financing of a political entity, contrary to the provisions of the law, and intends to conceal the source of funding or the amount of funds collected by a political entity, that they will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years. Such a feature of the crime is intended to punish the person who gives as well as the person who takes the illegal means if he does so contrary to the law. I want to express hope that we will have as few of these crimes as possible and that no one, no matter what political party is doing, will resort to this way. The financing of political parties is divergently regulated in the country's national legislation in the world. According to one survey, which was done before 2003, out of 111 countries covered by the survey, 71 had prescribed rules for the financing of political parties, while 40 had no regulations. The initial basis for the adoption of the law in 2011 was also this data. That is why the working group, which was then composed, were representatives of both parliamentary parties and representatives of all those bodies and organisations that should deal with the control or financing of political parties. The task force was headed by the director, then director of the Anti-Corruption Agency. The bill's stance was also given by the European Commission and the Venice Commission, which had the opportunity to assess the law twice, because all those objections it had made for the first time, were included in the draft law and GRECO, a group of countries to fight corruption, as the Council of Europe's body has assessed in this regard that Serbia deserves recognition for a comprehensive review of political parties' funding and GRECO is pleased to find that all recommendations have been met in a satisfactory manner. It is clear that in this time we have passed this law and I will not dispute it. I would like to state, to quote what, in the extreme case, this respectable home has also found, adopting a National Anti-Corruption Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period 2013 to 2018, where shortcomings are said to be seen in the obligations of persons related to political entities, using public resources, as well as the obligations of the authorities responsible for controlling the financing of political entities. It further states in the Strategy that until today, and this would be passed on to this present time, no extreme version of political entities has been carried out, because they were not foreseen by law as mandatory entities of the DRI audit. The additional difficulty in this area is the lack of the necessary capacity of the authorities responsible for the control of financing. However, the way we adopt this law today, I would not say that it fully foresees or covers everything provided for in the national anti-corruption strategy or in the action plan itself to implement the anti-corruption strategy. The action plan states that the amendments to the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of political activities should be established and the obligations of the Agency and the DRI and other bodies should be distinguished. Then, it should resort to amendments to the DRI Act that should have the obligation to revise parliamentary parties. Then, it should resort to amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and to the Tax Administration, where the Director of the Tax Administration should include contributors in the control plan. I would like to express my view, as did the Proponent's representative, that in the coming period they will resort to comprehensive changes and that we, as part of this Parliament, will be involved in the development of this comprehensive text. The parties are key actors for the establishment and development of the democratic order, from their arrangement, efficiency and opportunity to produce appropriate personnel. For the state function, the quality of the democratic order depends largely on the quality and therefore the life of the citizens in it. In order to play their role adequately, parties need significant financial resources. The scope of these funds depends on the activities that the parties have, their proper structures and the businesses they carry out. This is not what I said, this is what Djordje Vukovic, the programming director of CESID, means institutions or bodies that, I believe, we all respect. As I said, I believe that this bill has been done quickly, hasteningly, not to include everything that we as Parliament have committed to ourselves and other bodies within Serbia, that we haven't had enough time to get to know each other, or to make our remarks about it. At the very end of the case, the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, in the same section concerning political activities, says that public participation and civil society organisations play a key role in increasing the transparency of the work and responsibility of politicians. In fact, the process of adopting the regulations in the Republic of Serbia is marked at all levels by insufficient public participation, which is why many regulations become an instrument of corruption and abuse, rather than being a means of eradicating them. The reason for this is, among other things, the absence of a legal guarantee that in all cases the adoption of the rules will precede public debates and that their proposals will be considered. I'd stop here, like I said, I don't think we had enough time to get to know each other, we couldn't make our contribution to this bill. I hope that, in the next period, we will be able to do so and for all of this, as well as for all those objections that are members of my parliamentary group, the representative of the parliamentary group, we will not be able to support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13291	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic. The word has the People's MP Dejan Nikolic, and let the MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac be prepared, as the last registered speaker, please, Mr Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13292	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would say that what I assumed happened, that a small number of MPs, other than the opposition MPs, were talking about this law the way this law must be spoken of, afraid of, of course, not to rush into a whirlwind of banal charges of fighting and not giving party money. It's a profoundly wrong approach. The right approach to this bill is to discuss it, at least as much as we discussed that basic 2011 proposal, to discuss with all parties, movements, associations, who participate in Serbia's political life, with people from the profession, and with comparative analyses and practices of countries in the environment, and only then in parliament for the assembly speaker. That's the right approach you went around today. There is no debate on how much democracy costs in Serbia today. Whether it's expensive or expensive is the cheapest kind of state order, and I don't just mean the financial aspect. How much more autocratic today and is it cheaper, or is it even cheaper for any society that tends to be normal? How much does a multiparty system do today, how one-party? What is the role of political parties in modern democratic society? What is the role of the parties in the multilateral system? What is the effect of such processes that every individual living in this society must have, in the very focus of politics? There's been no debate about all this. It's too little time to talk about it here today. We should have talked before the law came on the agenda. It is too little time for us to answer such ideological questions because they are too important for us to bypass them, to organise debates is not our right. It's our responsibility. Obligations to democratic society, obligations to citizens we represent here in parliament, obligations to the parties we represent, according to the Constitution that defines democratic society, according to the laws we make. What's in it for us today? A debate, in which we say "whoa" political parties and wait for applause. I deeply believe in political pluralism, believe in representative democracy, believe in the education mission of a system made up of political parties. Only after such a debate and just after answering the question I asked can we put percentages on the table, so whether it's 1. 0.15, or 0.10, is it from expenditure or tax revenues. When you skip the essence of what looks like a law that's being passed in panic, when you're in a panic running to point your finger at someone else that's guilty of you spending three years of the financial resources you get by the percentage that someone else has determined. The percentage was then increased to reduce the financial impact on political parties. At that time, increased powers to the Anti-Corruption Agency, marking the second principle of this law, which is to control how the parties receive and spend funds. It's determined to be a double. One is public control. It is no longer the will of the party to announce its donors. It's their duty. So the public can influence the control of the acquisition and spending of funds. The second level of control is institutional. The Anti-Corruption Agency, before that law since 2011, has not been able to do much today, can count sandwiches on the bus. The third principle was equality, equilibrium, starting position the same for all political parties before the election campaign. The initial position you are erasing today with the provision that the funds you receive for regular funding can also be used in a political campaign. So let's shut down all political parties, parliament, just who decides? Then, in this rapid disintegration of the political system, you bring without or without any political debate, such a law that is either wrong or incorrect, technically incorrect and essentially inapplicable, you have admitted it unless you adopt our amendments or amendments to some other MPs. Maybe that's the purpose of this law, but if the goal is to blur the society's eyes under the code "saving", then the question is, can society with their eyes stained get where we're taking it? I doubt it or I don't even doubt it, I know for sure there's no way, and there's no way that this law and this law and only amendments to this law can improve the political life in which we operate, to better define the relationship between business and politics. Well, since there are political parties, there's also a business urge to get closer to political parties and achieve what's in the nature of business, and that's profit. We need a step forward, to make Serbia normal what is normal long ago in the world, when German politicians at a press conference stand next to representatives of large capital, say, the automotive industry and thank you for helping the campaign, when President of the United States Barack Obama stands next to Warren Buffett and says thank you for financial assistance, because he believed in the policy he ran in the elections. It's normal in normal and orderly political systems. By changing and supplementing only this law, without starting a wider story of the political life that we're working on, this isn't going to work and this is one big step back. That's why we won't vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13293	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word is proposed by MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13294	Dear colleague, perfectly trained in front of the mirror speech. (Dejan Nikolic, from the place: So I can look in the mirror.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13295	Mr. Nikolic, don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13296	Great for the barren debate club with constant calls -- let's talk and debate; while we talk and while we debate money will continue to go to political parties, not to people in Serbia. Well, he can't. The Serbian Progressive Party has proved to you that it can be without money, but on the move, on the idea, in energy, not in the interest of making a party that in six years' time became the largest in this part of Europe, which carries reforms in this country, which in a peaceful, dignified, civilized way took over power in Serbia in the elections, which showed that it was standing, and I stood among 100,000 people and 5 February and 16 April 2011, in front of this House, and it did not occur to us to burn down the Assembly, and some burned it. There's no plastic bottle left behind our gatherings, and there's no bag of cookies left. He remained a clean city with a message politically sent. During that time we succeeded, although we did not receive a single dinar from the Serbian budget, and I am grateful to my colleagues from Arangelovac for reminding me of a mistake, in a city that is very close to my hometown, not only six houses were made in the Kingdom, and the seventh house he made out of his funds was the municipal board of the Serbian Progressive Party in Arangelovac and I am infinitely grateful for it. We didn't complain about being oppressed about it. We didn't whine when you didn't invite us to be in the task force that made the draft law in 2011. You didn't give us the courtesy of a phone call. So much for that, the way a spectacularly good democratic, silky way the law comes about. We heard Mrs. Elvira Kovac today. I'm grateful for her honesty and I'll quote her a hundred times. It's your task force, free of your conversation with civil society. Mrs. Kovacje said - we sent such a bill to the government, something else was returned, political will and political order was such that it was such a vote. Are you proud of it? Are you proud of it that way? Are you proud of this public conversation that was completely something other than investing in the future in your current coalition partners, in the Serbian Radical Party, which you seem to have paid by means of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Yeah, we'll talk. Yeah, that's the need. It's something that people in Serbia expect from us, but I won't talk about still pouring out funds. I don't want the conversation to mask and everyone else can save, so political parties can't save. For what? Because it says in the explanation - draft law. I don't care if he writes a draft. I don't care if it's a mistake and who's going to care in Serbia, but in three, three and a half million euros, how much they're going to stay in the budget, and how much I care and how much I won't let you mask the situation so that the funds continue to be poured over to the political parties by not talking. Yeah, we talked. I don't know if your bosses have informed you. Yes, we did, because I didn't want to say what you said in your first sentence, and it's only right when I'm criticizing the law, everything else is an advocacy, like it wasn't right back then, a few hours ago, when it was discussed in the House of the People's Assembly, when the president of that Committee on Culture and Information wouldn't allow media representatives to turn, in the National Assembly. Well, then who's censoring? Then who won't let the debate open? Then who won't let someone else's opinion be heard? I won't let you do one thing, to confuse people in Serbia as we drag our hands into their pockets by taking from public finances, public finances that you've suffered if someone will say they feel offended when I diagnosed the level of disease of our public finances. What we found in the budget was half a pension in 2012, half a doctor's salary, half a teacher's salary. Liquidity was 15 days. That's what you've left behind, you who want to debate, you who want to cloud reality just to get as long as you can on the budget and on the resources of Serbian citizens. To withdraw the law, to keep 35% of the funds drained by parties instead of staying Serbian citizens, because it writes a draft in an explanation? I won't and I won't. This is the time to save. The government began on its own, the parties began on their own, responsible parties, and we do not complain about it, and the inability of double functions and less funds for political activities. This lack of funds, my dear young colleague, make up for not having a debate in front of the mirror, not in big words with the debate clubs, make up for the energy, make up for everything that has made up for the Serbian Progressive Party since 2008, when we came into existence, until 2012, when we didn't even get the dinar out of the budget, but we grew up because we showed both the knowledge and the strength and the will to change Serbia for the better. That's what we're doing right now, promising the hard stuff, applying the heavy stuff. In order for people in Serbia to accept these difficult things, we must say what we have done with ourselves, which is that we have reduced when we are the greatest and I am proud of it and I am proud of this solution. I am proud that in two days we will adopt this bill into the House of the National Assembly, no matter how many trivial things you try to mine such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13297	Thank you. The word is from MP Dejan Nikolic, a replica based on the deputy head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13298	For starters, I'm allowed to stand in front of the mirror. We could have talked about this law from different aspects, both philosophical and sociological and political. I have chosen to ask you certain content questions that might make this law better. Why such a pompous attitude on your part? Do you want me to be afraid? Well, why should I be afraid of you? I wasn't afraid when you threw your shoes at us, spilled water, and ripped up microphones. I wasn't afraid when you were Serbian radicals. Why would I be afraid now that you're Serbian advances? I'm giving you something to say about these ups and downs of political parties. You have tripped the Serbian Radical Party and made its fall the Serbian Progressive Party, is that right, Mr Babic, as you today step on and trip other political parties to climb the scale of which is the single-party system. As long as there's one member of the Democratic Party, we won't let you do that. I wanted to point out a lot, but you chose the wrong debate for the right law. If you'd had a debate, you'd have heard the opinion of all of us. There's a lot of smart stuff you'd hear. There's smart people and smart suggestions here. Did you ask the Anti-Corruption Agency how he feels about this law? Have you asked other participants of our political life? You're not. Wrong approach. But you came here to teach us morals in politics. You didn't get a dime in 2008 and 2009. In what election did you win 21 MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13299	Time, Mr. Nikolic. Thank you. The word is proposed by MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13300	I didn't think I was that scary. I hope my colleagues from the SNS Group confirm that. In these months and just over a year, as far as I'm running the SNS Parliament Club, I haven't raised my word. That concern you show for the Serbian Radical Party, it's a concern for the coalition partner and it's not bad. It wasn't us, and it wasn't the SNS that formed the trip. It came up with the idea of responsible people who wanted to be in. We've grown to dissatisfaction, to the dissatisfaction of you, Mr. Nikolic, with everything you've done and done in political action. I'm deliberately speaking slowly and don't point your finger at you, because you pointed your finger at me, when you said watering, shooting your shoe. That's what your coalition partners are doing right now. That's what you blame them for. You can see that Bojana Pajtic fits, answers because he received votes from them, SRS MPs give the quorum, vote for reconstruction of the province's government. Why is this bothering you right here and not bothering you in Novi Sad? Let's keep going. If you don't mind watering, I have a problem with voting from Bodrum. Now, whoever organised the Bodrum vote is now your party chief. He won the prize for what he worked for, the prize because he organized it, no matter who was voted for. Principle, the store is important. For who? Yeah, I'll say, for Cory Widowsky, why not, at that point for the governor. Do you think I'll shut up? But the store, who organized it? Who arranged for Mrs. Arneric to press a button on which delegation unit from Bodrum? You have no communication. You have no desire to communicate. If you had a wish, you'd be there when we're together with the other colleagues, here's a colleague of Nedjo Jovanovic, there's people from other parliamentary groups. When we are working on a document that I hope will seriousise our political scene, at least in the part when it comes to Parliament and the MPs, why don't you take part in a debate with us, in a debate with representatives of the European Parliament, on a document called the Code of Conduct of People's MPs? No, you step it forward, and I don't have a problem saying that that document in 95% of the solution was made in the eighth term, when the SNS didn't have most. I am proud to say that this document was attended by your friend and friend and party colleague Mr Nenad Konstantinovic until then. I'm grateful for that. He's still in the task force today and he'll be all the way. Why be ashamed of continuity? Why be ashamed of people who worked on something? I'm grateful to him. You don't answer an orderly call, and you complain about why there's no communication. There can't be any communication when you knock on the closed door all the time. Do you know why, Mr. Nikolic, there is no communication? It is not because you want to remove from such a document now, which is not only made for this convocation, whether it will be adopted or not. We are thinking about making documents that will outlive us, which will be for some other people, who will function in the National Assembly and when we are in opposition. Why not? Now you have a problem with the Rules of Procedure. Who made it? Why does it bother you when you're in opposition, because you made him against the opposition? Is there a reason why the SNS went out for an emergency procedure in front of the National Assembly? Although some MPs say by throwing – what is the point of all this, so if anyone has no interest in being here, he doesn't have to be. If someone doesn't care what this high house does, they don't have to be here, but I think we're here to debate, to get the best solutions. I waited patiently today, only once I got out of the O.R. because I wanted to hear maybe some idea, maybe something better. I didn't hear. That's why it's all this. No communication with you, no communication with you. You have no desire for such things. You're acting the way you were when you were the greatest, when you created this state and the political system in this country, still in the clouds of congenital. Because of you, I'm telling you, you're a young man, from a similar environment to me. You need to get down on the ground, look at reality to move forward. We don't have time to debate because with the debate you call citizens, they're getting poorer, the budget's getting empty. This law will be passed, and then we'll debate, maybe better solutions, but there must be savings. The hand must no longer be placed in the pocket of Serbian citizens, not especially in such a way as to pay for the current support of SRS Bojan Pajtic and the province administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13301	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, as the last registered speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13302	Thank you. (Dejan Nikolic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13303	Mr. Nikolic, you must report in time. I've already given my word to the previous speaker. Here you go, Mrs. Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13304	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have devoted the entire working day to considering the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Activities. The law on financing political activities, which is now in force, came into force on 22 June 2011 and has since been in place. I must stress that when that law was passed, a brand-new approach was introduced to this matter and a brand-new way of resolving issues from this area. That is why the law has brought large newspapers in its application and in the financing of political parties. It's logical, as time goes by, that there may have been some shortages, or time has changed some circumstances that need to change the law. However, the question is whether what needs to be changed is exactly what we are now offered. I want to say that the Law on the financing of political activities has helped make the financing of political parties more transparent than it used to be. Now we have a better insight into how much the parties are really spending, how much their income is, who are the finances of political parties. I must also remind myself that in the adoption of the Law on the financing of political activities, the legislator, and the Assembly, when it was adopted, managed the recommendations of GRECO. It's a group of countries to fight corruption in the Council of Europe. In 2010, she made ten recommendations all incorporated into this law. In the 2012 report, GRECO assessed that all ten recommendations were met and that the law had satisfactorily regulated this matter. GRECO had the opportunity to carry out not only an assessment of the law but of its application at the time of the report, as it was an election campaign in Serbia. The government adopted a National Anti-Corruption Strategy adopted on July 1st 2013, which also envisioned certain changes in this area of political party financing. To implement the National Strategy, the Action Plan adopted on 25 August 2013 was also adopted, which also envisions what needs to be done. I regret to say that these amendments and additions to the Law contain nothing of what was intended to be done to the Strategy and the Action Plan, although the deadlines for this to be realized have passed. It was also necessary to amend the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, where the directors of the tax administrations should be involved in the control plan to include contributors, to have greater control and to be more transparent in the application and financing of these laws. I won't anymore, since I have a little time...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13305	You have no more time, Mrs. Hasanovic-Korec.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13306	I just want a closing sentence. I'll talk about the other things when we consider the amendments. I just want to say, what stands out as the intention of this law is to make savings, to save funds. We are a social democratic orientation and it is important to save for every citizen, but in this case it is only demagogy, because what is saved is a drop in the sea, spent by the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13307	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Here you are, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13308	In the second part of the time available to me as the authorised representative of the Democratic Party, several comments and remarks collected during the careful listening to debate and discussion during this working day. What I can conclude and what was received in response to the question from the first part of my discussion is that Article 5, which is pointless in the draft law, since it calls for a position that does not exist, will be corrected by the vote on the amendment, which is submitted by a fellow MP and that is good news, which, of course, speaks of the nature of our work. My observation that it's superficial and sloppy is standing. If it wasn't superficial and sloppy, there would be no amendment. They're congregations. In these congregations, there is not a single draft law that has come out of the Assembly, in terms of signing the apparitions by the President of the Republic, so published, and that in the same text, some amendment has been submitted. The amendment that has been submitted, based on information from the debate, in order to clarify funding from public sources for the purchase of real estate, I have no definitive position. I think it needs to be explained how such an amendment, amended by this provision, gets an effect in reality. It is good that an amendment has been submitted that at least tries to change, explain or create stricter ways of using funds from public sources to buy real estate and to own a political party. I am still on the stand that it is unacceptable to buy from the taxes of all citizens the property of which will be owned by political parties. It's legitimate to represent it, to interpret it, however, I'm not getting into it at all. One remark deserves attention. I emphasized the need to read. Many of the misunderstandings in this room would be removed and would not be so banal and deep that we would read both the bill and the reasoning attached. I completely understand the reaction – what do you care what the draft says in the explanation, and you need a proposal. We're different people. I think everyone has the right to say I don't care whether the bill that entered the National Assembly writes a draft or a proposal. I care because it's the elemental thing that we have when the acts are in our hands. It doesn't affect how the law will be passed, but it speaks of all of us. There's a lot of us out there that don't mind. There are people who don't mind. I don't see the benefit of not being in the way. It's not explained to me, and it stays as a remark. About the percentage and the benefits that will be achieved by adopting this bill on the proposed reduction compared to the amount of 1.9 billion from the budget, where about 800 million funds for the election campaign ended in March of this year, so at 1.14 billion we'll have about 800 million dinars instead of 1.14 billion. It could be 600 million dinars, it could be one billion. We didn't bid with the percentages here, and I think that's the last stage we're talking about is what affordability is, in order to most clearly explain how much we can afford ourselves from the existing income or expenditure side in the nominal amount with the scale as it normally counts. What's left of no answer is the province's tax revenues. Trying to replace that with the way the province's budget is brought in is not for me to explain why it's in vain, but it's in vain. Try to imply that there are tax revenues and what we're asking here is not good. It has been disputed here that DS will not participate in the dialogue. I don't know what we do here all the time every day, all day. Various qualifications have been invented, disqualifications of the Democratic Party, which is all political folklore and colorite and which is not useful, is unproductive. If the political freedom of Democratic Party President Bojan Pajtic is considered to be a criminal, if in a campaign that wants to paint the adoption of this law, he thinks you're better off if you tampered with the Democrats one more time, come on. For the first or last time, 25 years it's been happening, 25 years whenever someone has something to strongly direct people who are not prone to what the DS is wearing... There's a miracle. You haven't looked out for 20 years. It took you 20 years to understand that the EU is the best news for Serbia and that every great Serbia is only great if it is a European Serbia, and we have heard these same remarks for 20 years about what kind of criminals we are, what we are, and what everything can be said about the president of the Democratic Party, all the presidents of the Democratic Party with whom I have been pleased to co-operate, and Bojan Pajtic, and Dragan Djilas, and Boris Tadic, and Zoran Zivkovic at one tragic moment, in the post of deputies, and Zoran Djindjic, and Dragoljub Micunovic. (Zoran Babic, from the place: What is this? People's MPs are getting - what is this? This is an answer to the understanding of the indescribable need to, no matter how well established or not, say some disqualification about DS. We're used to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13309	Mrs. Komic, please, you didn't get the replica, you're talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13310	Here, I'm done. All the things you've told us most about you, and very little about us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13311	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is proposed by MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13312	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry I threw it away, because I really didn't see the point of the last four minutes of speech of a distinguished colleague with a bill of law, and it was more of an hour for the party's history. I respect every history. Really. What I would like to explain, which is to hand over an amendment signed by a respected colleague, Aleksandar Jugovic, who says - in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Activities, Article 1 is amended and reads: "a political party that acquires immovable property with funds from public sources can use that property exclusively to carry out its political activities". This amendment has been written and written with a good communication with people from the civil society of the non-governmental sector. I'm grateful to these people for the energy and will they've given. I see a colleague just now, Col. Comic said, that well, not even so, not even civil society, and it's against it. It's okay. I am now saying that as a representative, I am an authorised representative of the motionors ready to discuss all of this in order to further define it. And so much for Mr. Marinkovic's amendment law, I think we've said enough. I'm going to have to repeat a similar sentence I said a few days ago. Vocabularies concerning the European perspective and European future, European Serbia and the merits of that. Yes, there are people who have understood these values 20 years ago as being represented, but the fact has not done anything to bring our society closer to the EU, and instead of what I point out as a value in all international conditions, at all meetings internationally, and I say that this is the value of this society and the maturation of our society, which in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not have any parliamentary group that opposes the European path of Serbia, which gives further wind to the back and speeds up all these actions. Why now to qualify someone who realized it 20 years ago, but he realized and remained so understood where he is, unlike those who realized it all four or six or eight years ago, but during their political activities in the last two and a half years, they took those crucial steps that were necessary to implement. And that's what I'm primarily thinking about is the conclusion of the implementation of the Brussels Agreement and it was terribly difficult and there was no responsibility for the SNS. Why is this train that came in 2012, 2013 and slow and bad, and wooden benches. It's a real boil. It's not the responsibility of the SNS, it's the responsibility of those who created the fate of this country, because they didn't have the courage, because they had advisors who said how much it cost a kilo of live scales. Because of such advisers, former advisors, former presidents, wherever they are now, we didn't get on those much faster trains. I wish there was more courage, so instead of axes and chainsaws, you explained to the people in the north of KIM that you needed to make such an agreement. I wish we hadn't wasted our time making and drawing the logs, and then moving the logs. There was a need for change. It was necessary to create a SNS in order to form and implement the Brussels Agreement, in order to communicate with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina. Not only in Brussels, I believe that tomorrow will take place in both Pristina and Belgrade and without the presence of a third party when reasonable people are talking. But it wasn't the courage to do it. It has been glorious enough to sit in the Belgrade headquarters of the party and talk – here we share European values, here we are those fire keepers even though the fire has been increasingly extinguished. I'll say it a hundred times, don't remember the one who laid the cornerstone, remember the one who cut the tape. Whether you like it or not, Aleksandar Vukic and SNS will set up the next star on the EU flag for full EU membership.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13313	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13314	This is just as many replicas as the need for some data to be explained in the dialogue. The Brussels Agreement was voted together, on the content of what the MP Borislav Stefanovic has now done with two important, extremely important things that Alexander Vukic and Ivica Dacic have done. I know exactly how hard this is, and that's why he had DS votes. In order to reach this Brussels Agreement, to welcome the opening of negotiations, the candidate status had to be reached before it had to be completed, and 46 of the highest political, state, security, military, police, names could not be said to be extradited to The Hague tribunal with all the obstacles that this entails and those who have done so and those who have observed it. It had to begin in 2010 and the UN jurisdiction of the EU over the Kosovo issue and be the start of the normalisation that we welcome. It had to be resolved in 2006 when all types of negotiations with the EU were frozen and it had to begin in 2003 when a request to be EU members was submitted. It is good and neither do I think it is bad, nor do I think it is good that in 2008 SNS has made a good decision to support the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to join the European idea. I just said 20 years we lost and don't lose another year because your DS is so, so guilty of everything and what it is and what it isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13315	The word has been given by a National MP, a representative of Proposer Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13316	I don't see how it's been lost for 20 years. I don't see how some minority in the congregations could have been here since the 1990s, after and in 2000 to stop some processes. How can a minority stop some processes? He can express his political position in the time that the Rules of Procedure determines, can rally, can speak. How can he stop it? Not enough to say – you know, the Brussels Agreement is 2/3, 4/5 of the documents that someone made before that, but why didn't you have the courage to bring that document to Belgrade? Why didn't you have the courage to bring him to the assembly? Why didn't you have the courage to face the citizens of Serbia with that document? You think it was easy? You think it was easy for this congregation majority who then debated here with the pressure of people on the street? For the first time that day, I entered the entrance from Kosovo, not the main entrance. You think it was easy to do that? You were wasting your time because of one thing that you committed to in Brussels, Washington, Moscow, anywhere, you changed your mind in Belgrade because of the marketing agency that told you – no, it's not good, the extra megacar will lose its popularity, you might lose the election, you'll lose a percentage, you'll lose it, don't do it. And then it wasn't done. Why didn't you do what you said you created, why didn't you come to Belgrade, why didn't you come to the Assembly? Now because you didn't come to the Assembly, you're accusing the minority, at that moment a minority. Was there a declaration in the Serbian Parliament that came, concerning Kosovo and Metohija, without the support of the SNS, or the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group? We voted for each one, no matter who suggested, because the relationship between our policy and Belgrade's relationship with Kosovo and Metohija should be exactly the point of merger, such as the point of bringing together the European perspective and the European future of Serbia, but not for me, not for my colleagues from the SNS, but for everyone. More governments have done from 2012 to 2014 on the European path than all governments have done since 2000 to 2012. I don't want to take what others have been doing, but at the speed, by the disgust you've made with the announcements, we'll be a member then, we'll be, we'll be then, you've disgusted us, you've had a fight in advance with Brussels, because everything that's been bad is -- you've made us Brussels, the EU has made us. Why? The wrong approach was wrong thinking. I'm not saying you're not fire guards, but with that dynamic and the way you designed that fire she threatened to put out. This government added small wood to that fire first, so large wood, and now that fire is so that it cannot be extinguished and that it will lead to the opening of all chapters and closed, with the harmonisation of legislation, to do everything that is up to Serbia to become a full member of the EU. Since 2018, it will be politically in the hands of some other people who will say whether they want Serbia within the European family of peoples or not. I strongly believe that this answer will be positive, as I hope for such a response is given by one sentence spoken by Mr Stefan File here at the House of National Assembly in one of the last visits to Belgrade, when he said - in the EU accession process we must not lose Serbian citizens, Serbian citizens must live better today than yesterday, tomorrow better than they are today and every day to benefit from the European perspective and the European future of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-06-0.u13317	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mrs. Komic, you've reached out, but I don't think you have the right to reply at this time, because nothing has been offensive to the Democratic Party. Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. Resumption of amendments to items 3 and 4 of the agenda is tomorrow at 09.00 p.m.
