ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13318	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Branko Ružić, Sinisa Maksimovic, Stefana Miladanovic, Susana Spasojevic, Olgica Batic, Momo Colakovic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail of the 3rd item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Health Security Act in accordance with Article 90(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for meetings of Dr Vladimir Đukić, Dr Ferenc Vicko and Dr Verislav Vekić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Natasa Gudović and Zorica Marković, senior advisers at the Ministry of Health, Mira Kontic and Dr Nebojsa Jokić, independent advisers at the Ministry of Health and Marko Pavlovic, PR at the Ministry of Health. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Borislav Stefanović, Jovana Jovanovic, Dr Blagoje Bradić, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać and Branka Karavidić. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13319	Respected presidents, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, counterpart Stefanovic in this amendment wanted to draw attention to the intention to change the structure of members of the boards of directors and the Supervisory Board of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. With this amendment, he wanted to correct that intention to keep the Republic Health Insurance Fund, practically, the insurance fund. Since I often say that the Republic Government has its own fund, it is called the budget, and that the Republic Health Insurance Fund is an institution where all of our contributions to health insurance come together that are rejected every month from our salaries. This is just one wish to try to change this intention. Unfortunately, this amendment has not been accepted, but we hope that in the coming period, in the months and years that come that we have the opportunity for the insurance companies to be safer in these incomes that are being separated, that they will be more clearly informed of what they have than health insurance, what they can do with their health book. This is how many of our fellow citizens in many situations, and they can't exercise some of the rights of their health insurance, or maybe somewhere in the bar, it's more ridiculous, what they say, interprets the bill. The purpose of this amendment is to preserve one independence of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, to continue to be a insurance fund, not to be a state fund, since the state has its own fund, which is called the budget, from which it could finance such things. A colleague of Stefanovic and a colleague of Jovana are not present at the moment, but they asked me to say this on their behalf that a single intention of the Republic government is practically asking a question as to whether we need the Republic Health Insurance Fund at all, since we can say that we have an item in the budget of the Republic of Serbia from which health care will be paid and financed, that all Serbian citizens have health insurance. They transferred me, I told you and I hope that we will have the opportunity to have some other insurance houses in the coming years, which may be more and better to represent the interests of the insurance company, to fight for the insurance company and to fight for the conditions of the clinics in which they will be the insurance company, and in order for our citizens to have the opportunity to adequately treat themselves with their health book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13320	By amendment, Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13321	Dear Presidents, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, unlike my esteemed colleague, I look forward to the fact that neither the Government nor the Health Committee have accepted this amendment, given that this solution improves efficiency, the efficiency of the Fund will be significantly improved, the Glacial Apparatus of the Fund's Management Board, which has proved its work, or does not work in the previous 15 years will be reduced. We're all witnesses, we all see how much the health care has failed in the last 15 years, thanks to the taxpayers' money being managed by that and that RFZO. Given that all references show that work in the past 15 years has been catastrophic, I am really looking forward to this change affecting, I am sure that the work of the fund is more efficient and cheaper by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13322	According to the amendment, MP Dr Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13323	President-in-Office, respected ministers, members of the ministry, I also spoke about this in plenary, but I think that this amendment and amendments that sort of bid with members of the board of directors should not be accepted and the intention here is clear. It is a clear intention to implement a single policy in the health system of the Republic of Serbia. I think the argument is quite correct that the government has made that the amendment is not accepted and I call on SNS MPs not to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13324	The word has a folk MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13325	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, MPs, in any case, I will not repeat what my colleagues have stated before me, but it is good that this amendment is not accepted, because in accepting this amendment there is one thing that this law should regulate and resolve. That means we've reduced the number of members, which is fine, to seven, but if we accept the amendment, we'd have a situation for certain categories of insurance companies to be discriminated against. In this case, if we have four representatives of the ministry, which is elected by the ministry, we also have one control role that the ministry, namely the Government, will have over the Health Insurance Fund, because we have witnessed that during the earlier period, the Health Insurance Fund has been placed as a regulatory factor in health care, where it has brought some regulations that have been met with the well-being of Serbian citizens, and have not been able to recognise some basic needs, which the ministry could not implement or had no interference with the work of the Health Insurance Fund. This way, by means of the legal solution given, the ministry will have opportunities, regulatory functions, in the Health Insurance Fund, but in any case, this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13326	The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13327	By amendment. In the first performance, I presented the views of my colleague Stefanovic and my colleague, Jovana. Now I want to tell you my position. I think it's always good to cut someone, when the number of people who decide something is down, and I think that 21 members of the board of directors, seven members of the board of directors, was a big number, especially when these people received some kind of aapanaze a month that moved from 50,000 dinars, which was at some annual level of around 100,000 euros. I've always wondered what these people had decided, given that many citizens were very unhappy with the numerous RFO decisions. What I welcome, therefore, is your desire to reduce the number of people on the board of directors and supervisors, in order to make savings, and I welcome it. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I can say that's a good thing. We only talked about the political decision that you have made and which is legitimate, because you have a majority, you have the right to take political responsibility over this fund and that's enough now, because we won't be able to avoid the minister's responsibility, to transfer to the Republic Fund, as it's been done for years, since they've mostly been from different parties, so one has worked one another and they've mostly tripped to one another. What I want to tell you is, if we're talking about savings, rationalization, we need to be honest, so let's say it's true that the Republic Fund has received more than 37 new employees from the Republic since the arrival of the new director, and these unprofessional people, people who have no experience in the profession, people who are physical therapists, people who are some construction engineers, people who are unprofessional to run the Fund? If we're fighting for rationalization, for savings, and in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, then we have to be honest and say, wait, this is not good, maybe these people don't need to work here anymore. I will also inform you that in some times DS, only the Director of the Fund who was not even a member of the DS, Mr. Professor Vuksanovic, and that in his term of office, monthly appointments for expert commissions were abolished. So, these are the expert committees in the Fund that have received allowances at some of their meetings and monthly donations, have been abolished, so that, perhaps, we should consider these board members, especially coming from the ministry, that in order to reduce the cost, function the Republic Fund, and that these functions are either reduced, or that some appointments or be volunteering, given that they are likely to receive salaries in one of the state institutions, so that they do not additionally burden our budget. I've had so much to say about this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13328	The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13329	I would like to join my fellow Members who are of the opinion that this amendment should be rejected. Given that I came forward a little earlier, I wanted to say that what Mr. Milisavljevic pointed out, I really did not hear that there are 21 members of the European Supervisory or Management Board and that financial loss is even, investment in these people, about 100,000 euros a year. In this one of our processes where we're going to tighten all the seams of the state, and by which unnecessary money stands out, I think this is good. I think seven people, serious people, will be able to monitor and monitor the work of this institution, and that is why I believe that this amendment should be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13330	According to the amendment, MP Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13331	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, for the second time in this amendment, since counterpart Milisavljevic made some calculations on the costs and cost of the previous board of directors, which cost about 100,000 euros. It's something that's not too much, but if we take into account that he claims that these new ones, if there are 37 employees or 27 or how many, make extra expenses, then I'd be wondering what are the really costs of the RFO in the previous organization? In view of the fact that in the past 10 to 15 years, there are about 2,200 employees, that they receive a gross salary of about 1,000 euros, that is 26m euros a year. Only so much or more can it be something called an irrational business in the Health Fund. In view of that, I personally think that a huge number of people working in this RFO don't need to work in that place, I wonder why the previous governments and the previous regime haven't thought about rationalising the Fund, at some right level to the right degree, and not whether 26 are newly employed or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13332	The word is from the People's MP Dr. Vladica Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13333	Dear Ministers, Associates, I am pleased that the Government has a position not to accept this amendment, and of course I am opinions, because by reducing the number of board members, there is a rationality and efficiency in the business of the board of directors and savings are being introduced, but the proposal of the majority of the members, so four of the seven board members, to be proposed by the Minister, by the government itself, and thus by the majority of parliament, introduces one principle that has not yet existed, which is the principle of responsibility. In fact, by running the Fund so far where 21 members were sitting on the board of directors, it reminds me of a kind of self-management. This may be positive from the aspect of the social category proposed by its representatives on the board of directors, but in the case of poor operations of the Fund, there is virtually no responsibility for anyone's poor business. It is this principle that introduces a legal basis for the responsibility of the ruling majority, for poor business, and also for the merits of what is a good business policy of the Fund. That is why this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13334	The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13335	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished professors, colleagues and colleagues, I really wanted to wait for my amendment to speak, but your discussion asked me to answer. So the basic thing that we're talking about here is changing the system of work of the Republic Fund. So far, it has been the Ministry of Health that implements politics in line with the policy of parties run by the Republic of Serbia. We are all paying into the budget of the Republic Fund the money to treat all citizens of the Republic of Serbia according to Bizmark's health insurance model, and the Management Board controls the way in which we spend and apply these funds for treatment. So the board of directors also controls the function of the Ministry of Health. You now want the excessive policy to decide on spending and how to spend health money in the Republic of Serbia and there is my colleague Dusan Milisavljevic absolutely right, then we do not need the Fund. Then we need that 10.5% as much as there is left for health care in the health care contribution position, we transfer it to the Republic budget, and then the Ministry legitimately leads it. It's a perfectly correct political decision, because you're declaring your policy through decisions like this, you're absolutely right, you can vote it, but you have to know what you want. So we want to abolish the right of those who charge the Fund to decide how to spend that money, justifying it in a thousand ways, and we want the policy implemented by the Ministry directly controlled by the Republic Fund. That's possible. It's doable, you make a decision and it's doable, but it has to be known, that more those who have been filling the fund and controlling that they won't be able to do it. You change the function, the way the Fund works, and that's not the problem. Then in the next act, you can freely terminate the Fund, as the Fund does not need it. Normally, you need professional people but they will be directly under Ministry's supervision and that is a completely legitimate political stance. I am against it and my party Together for Serbia and the SDS and the Green Party. We're against it. We express our political stance on why we are against it, but at least let us be consistent to explain to the citizens of Serbia what we are doing and how we are going to organise a health care system in Serbia from now on. You have a full right to it, you have a congregation majority, you have a policy that you've been running for power in the Republic of Serbia, and you just do it, but let's let the citizens understand what we're talking about here. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13336	The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13337	Let me get this straight. This is where we start with things that don't have touch points with the truth. I don't know why you're saying this. What's the point of this story? Just because the citizens of Serbia know. First, 85% of them, which are employees, pensioners and farmers, will be on the board of directors, that's one thing and that's the basic thing. Second of all, what is the objective of such a board of directors? To respect the opinion of the expert commission. We can't run the fund, we don't even know who, so there are expert commissions that make proposals and tasks that need to be done, and this is just one control mechanism to respect that decision made by the expert commission. So that's the only goal. I'm sure you know that very well, and I really don't get it. By yesterday, you've told one story, you're telling another story today, just decide which story suits you and nothing else, but for the citizens of Serbia, it's important to know. The expert commissions formed by our best experts give instructions on how, what will be done, what medicines are needed, what procedures are needed, how to do and how to spend, and this is just a mechanism to control, and we are reducing this mechanism from 21 to seven because we think seven of them can manage more effectively than 21 of them who have expired their mandate and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13338	Minister, time for the amendment. Thank you. The word has Dr. Ninoslav Girić: Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13339	I thank the president. I'd like the same thing under this amendment. I agree with the minister only to visit first of all for the sake of the Serbian public. You know, this government has been in power for five or six months, the ministry too. I think it's quite clear what the ministry wants, or the Serbian government. So, above all, a single policy, efficiency, rationalization. The structure has been explained very nicely by the minister and I don't think it should be misused politically now because it's clear what the intention of this law is and I think another amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13340	Thank you. The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13341	The debate mentioned the responsibility of the DS regarding the health sector and as an authorised representative, I want to say, I think you know it well, but the DS is certainly the only responsibility it has for me personally as an DS MP for not having the opportunity to assume responsibility in the health sector in 2000, and I agree with some colleagues who have said that very bad things have been done in some years since the 1990s and even two thousand in the health sector. Very bad, I always repeat that the example of such poor management in the health sector was just the decision by the resolute health minister to operate in another country. He sent a very bad message to his colleagues that he didn't trust his colleagues. He sent a message to Serbian citizens that our system is not good. I'm sorry we didn't replace him at the moment. He was removed in one of the government's reconstructions, but it is that the DS is responsible for not changing them immediately and giving them the opportunity at all to work in a sector like the health sector. For the public, the DS never had an assistant health minister, never had a secretary of state at the Ministry of Health, not one, and unfortunately never had a health minister in person. I am sorry that the health sector is one of the most important sectors in the Republic government because it takes care of the health of the nation and I am sorry that some small parties, blackmailing some capacity, have arrived to run such an important ministry. Here, I've spoken, it may have been when I had the chance, but I'm building up and I'm sorry we didn't get in and into that sector by not letting them make that kind of mistake. You ministers now have the opportunity, you have the majority support and in parliament, you now have the possibility of control from the Republic Fund itself and I sincerely hope that we as a state and as a people can move forward and go finally into some reform because for 20 years, you are the fourth minister, as one of the ministers comes, something promises, but very quickly stop him or the coalition partners or stop him administrative lobbys that work or stop him from financial health lobbys of large pharmaceutical houses. I'm giving you support to go together because our health care is very sick and we need to treat together.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13342	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13343	I thank Mr. Minister, you're wrong. I apologize for having to speak directly, but you're wrong. So, doctors' committees today and yesterday and tomorrow until you change, they're making decisions about medical issues, not fund workers. Gro workers of the fund are economists and lawyers. There are doctors who chair the committees, but as far as the profession is concerned, these colleagues themselves know that your colleagues are the most successful, most qualitative, delegated to these committees. For example, for rare and severe diseases, Professor Jelena Vojinovic from the clinic of the Clinical Centre in Nis is in the commission. She's not a fund worker, she's a clinic worker. So, the profession has always decided on health care in the Republic of Serbia in the Republic Fund. I think the professors were members of these committees, no, or your colleagues. I apologize, but colleagues from your clinic center are certainly on those commissions. We're not talking about representation here, we're talking about the factor in making the decision, that's what we're talking about. That's the essence of the story. I don't know what I was changing my attitude towards the Fund, maybe when I criticized why the Fund and the Ministry allowed 300 million from the Republic Fund's budget to go into the Republic of Serbia's budget and help the Pension Fund, so I have the right to do that. I think it's wrong. I think taking that money is wrong, because at the same time we have a lack of speciality that ends people at their expense. At the same time, we have a reduction in positions in the Republic Fund. At the same time, we have further centralization. You have the right to centralize the system. It's my right to say it's not good. The system needs to be decentralised. You're even more centralizing it and it's completely legitimate. You're right. You have a congregational majority and we are making laws here, but don't deny me the right to say it's wrong and to explain why it's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13344	The word has a folk MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13345	Thank you. I've been offered a discussion of the previous and gentleman before he discussed it, no one's talking, no one's thinking of ending the RFO. Let's not drive citizens into doubt and think that there is such an idea at all. That's what nobody's talking about, especially this law. We were talking about something else. We've reduced the number, which you've accepted, from 21 to seven, it stands. However, there is one other thing, the RFO must be a mediator, a flow boiler. The money collected from the insurance company is made at the RFZO. However, the distribution of this money, this is what we want to achieve now by this law, that there are expert commissions that will decide how and how some of these funds will be used, not that it has discretionary and absolute right to do so through its Management Board, which is otherwise delegated, and in this way delegations to boards of directors, we gain the opportunity and create opportunities and the Ministry and Government through the Ministry to control how and how through expert commissions will be distributed of that money. You can't argue with us. In the end, the elected government was elected to a half-dominated majority of Serbian citizens. Absolutely has the right and control of money in the RFO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13346	The word has a folk MP, Dr Slobodan Gvozdenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13347	The opposition's previous debate seems to me that he didn't bring up some exact information until the end when he said that doctors who work in RFZO are people who are not professionals and are not employees of the RFO. In Valjev, you have one example that people working on a first-degree commission are doctors who are on the payroll of the Republic Health Fund. You have one surgeon, one neuropsychiatrist, one physicist. These people left their jobs at the hospital and started working as professionals at the RFO branch in Valjev. Absolutely not. You may have thought of second-degree commissions and in second-degree commissions it is true that doctors who are employed in the general hospital in Valjevo, but in the first-degree commission, where the largest number of decisions are made, where the interests of RFZO are protected by professionals, are constantly employed by the RFZO. Secondly, respecting the applicants of the amendments and those who defend this amendment for policy to decide on how to spend health insurance money in the Republic of Serbia is a completely lobotomised logic for me. How can politics decide, or those who conduct politics, to decide something when the people have given them that legitimacy? No one pulled a line or a lucky one on the lottery, so then he started running some politics, but he had to get the votes of the people to do it. Also, those who fill the fund are those who voted this government and this policy to protect their interests. Therefore, we cannot use these primitive mysteries and deceive citizens that something does not know what is going on by amending this Law on RFZO, but rather one logical thing, because the change in society must be and, unfortunately, these changes must be faster and bolder and those dreamers themselves about change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13348	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13349	I'm advertising Article 107. I accept an energetic discussion, vigorously defending attitudes...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13350	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13351	In the fact that I've been characterized by the fact that I have a lobotomy policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13352	You're a doctor, you know what lobotomy policy means.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13353	It means he doesn't have a brain. I think you should stop it. I really ask you, I accept every argument, but colleagues, I speak with all due respect to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13354	You can't address your colleagues directly for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, just the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13355	I know I can't talk to my colleagues, but I'd like you to pay attention so it doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13356	I ask the Members of the medical profession not to use the terms – lobotomy policy. I don't see what I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: Yes. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13357	I use the time of the parliamentary group, as a necessary commentary on what we have heard in the exchange of MPs who have submitted the amendment and defend the position of changing the composition of the board of directors, not the number, but the composition, practically exempts the decision-making ability of the majority, which comes from who makes the Fund and puts itself in the majority decision-making of the Government, legitimately and legally. Just to be out of the question, what does that mean? This means that a family of four lives in their home and calls three of their neighbors to decide whether their house will be painted or not. That's what it means. My position on the Fund and the PIO and the RFO has long been clear. It's not a fund. With what you've now put into the amendment, you've proven that it's not the fund. You know what the fund is and how the fund has to operate. With this you sent a clear message that it was just one bank of indirect budget users in the vault, and that more was deleted and the basis by which the Fund was even created. I have already asked once for the Fund's reform theme to be seriously discussed in the Assembly, because it is necessary, because it is unacceptable that neither the finance minister nor the health minister can practically have a direct impact on the flow of money in the Fund and on the decision-making of the Fund, so this is also unacceptable to seek as an interdemnition that in our house, where the four of us live, we call three neighbours to decide instead of one of us what will happen to our house. Each employee in Serbia, who has been working for 40 years, singles out about 25,000 euros spent on the euro course and calculated on different nominal and percentage amounts of contributions. That money is not seen in the budget, that money is in the consolidated budget, and the Fund and most of the fund's directors decided on that money. When you're told -- don't break all the rules so much, by putting the decision on the government, and the government isn't among the formal founders of the Fund, then that's all it means. Are you going to be responsible that the Fund does not again adopt sublegal acts in time, which the Fund deafens on the Health Act of the prescribed provision, which the Fund believes can break its deadlines and that it itself decides on everything it can, not to contact its citizens, a whole series of criticisms I have, will now be your sole responsibility, with which we add that on behalf of the Government, or the Ministry, you make decisions about the Fund. The expert committees have never been a problem, but the two billion euros have always been a problem and the way it is decided was always a problem, so I ask the Minister to use this debate, not for the express repetition of the untrue things by those who support it, but to use it to make a clear intention of making your initiative or initiative of the Health Committee in this Assembly of the start-up debate, which can last during your term or next term, about how to actually build a Fund or that there is no Fund, but to know that contributions go invisible to the budget and that then we no longer have stories with special plans of organisations and others. We're open to all sorts of suggestions and ideas that concern that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13358	The word has a Minister Lonchar, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13359	I'm sorry if you can explain. You're saying everything you said wasn't implemented, right? You had the Fund all represented. So they're 21. Why didn't they react? Now you're asking them to be here again. Who's going to represent 800,000 unemployed? Never mind. Just answer me this, you say -- you're not happy, and you had what you're proposing now. Say, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13360	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13361	The fund is a problem. You'll have the same problem. The problem is the Fund, which is your definition of the Fund to manage the funds, which the Fund definition has never been applied to you since the Fund was established. That's the problem. Whether you will have me may or may not be my job in a set of all those who represent those who are formally after the founding of the Founders Fund or you will have those who are not formal founders who will speak the same – I can, for me, it is all one thing, the result will be the same. What you've done with this decision is erase the idea of which the Fund was founded. Your right. What is my request to you is – open a discussion about the Fund in general and then we will find a common solution or the Fund will be the Fund, and then we will know who is responsible for the Fund, what and where the Fund invests money, how the Fund operates, whether it is the Fund or not, or all the money will go into the budget, and then we will again know by the programme budget what it will be financed from the contribution. If the Fund really did what it had to do, if it wasn't like a lot of things I could do, it wasn't my job, I wouldn't bring in a sublegal act, we wouldn't have a problem, various kinds of health problems that we have because of the Fund. Now it's the drug and equipment supply fund. Now you're saying that you can't communicate with these people because they're tight and involved in what I'm not going to do with what they tell me together with the director or without the director. I'm not talking names, I'm talking about attitude, and you say, "Yeah, now I'm going to cut the number and be the people who are going to do what the Ministry says." Legally, but it's not the Fund. Do we understand each other now? I hope so.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13362	Is it a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13363	You're looking to be the way it's been before, and that didn't have any effect. So 21 of them, all represented, by law, were supposed to control it and do it, and they didn't do it. Now we say okay, that wasn't good, we change to act differently, by law, and you say -- we don't bring back these things that didn't work to respect some form. The other thing is, people understand it's not a dispute, as far as reform is concerned, I have to tell you one thing, we're in a serious problem, but I'm not sure we have too much time and we can experiment. What do I think? So that we have one, the other, the third, the fourth solution. The only thing we have time to take, to see where some good practice with a similar population, with a similar development, with similar money being invested. If we go one, the other, the third, the fourth model, the intermodel, we talk, we talk, I'm afraid we don't have that kind of time. We can only, in my opinion, see, because I'm sure we can wait so long for this, one system, one other, third system, to improvise, to think of something new, to invent hot water or something. I think we're going to have to look up to some systems that are similar, that had results.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13364	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13365	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, it is clear that without reforms within the insurance system there are no reforms in health care. Clearly, the current situation in the country is more than delicate. Someone has to take responsibility for repairing the health environment. Yesterday we had a rather unique thought on the Committee that it must be the bearer of changes in health policy, i.e. The Ministry of Health. How are we going to go into reform if we don't formalize it in some way and how we're going to do it more operationally, but so far, if we don't do it in a way where we decide to distribute funds, which are very little, we have the most direct influence of the state? If the amount of money in the Fund were incomparably higher than it is, we could talk about the structure of all those who allocate their financial resources. However, the health situation is really alarming. To inform citizens, I think it is important to remind ourselves that funding comes from two sources. One share is given by citizens, pensioners, farmers, employees, but the other, huge part, goes from the budget. You know, equipment, space, whatever it takes for these essential segments of health care is actually funded from the budget. So if the state doesn't start at this point in the context of changes in health policy, which has so far been inadequate, I agree with all the participants in the debate, it won't be able to fall from the sky any quality solution. In order to start reforms in the insurance system, the ministry must have a greater impact, and that is only possible in the way proposed by the amendment of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13366	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13367	On the occasion of this amendment, I would like to say that the RFO, in essence, should be a citizen service and that our citizens are interested in having health care in the coming period, not how many members have the Governing Board or Supervisory Board of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. I greatly appreciate and respect my fellow Nišli from the opposition, but offered by their discussion, I must remind them, it is true that they have not had a direct representative in the Ministry of Health in the past 10-15 years. Also, until they fell apart, the gentleman was former director, was then CEO of the RFZO branche Nis. Their DS members were directors at both primary health care and secondary and tertiary levels in many areas. I want to remind them of the situation, in particular in the City of Nis, they left behind, what debts we took, what they took on the matter of not getting there, and they were in the system of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13368	The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13369	Thank you, President. I was a little late for the start of the amendment debate, so I'd like to get involved now, given that I'm with a colleague of mine. I can see that obviously some things weren't clear. We're not saying that this number of board members you're proposing is controversial. There was talk about it earlier in the debate. The number of members of the Management Board shall not be disputed at all. We agree with rationalization in this regard, but in other respects we disagree, because we believe that the amount of money depends on you and who is the manager of this Fund. We wanted that instead of the four members you're proposing, to be there on a proposal from the Minister in charge of health affairs, there to be one person, a representative of the Association of Persons with Disabilities. We've all talked about how those who fill that fund, citizens who fill that fund with money, should influence how they have the funds from that Fund. We simply think that it will have a better impact on how the funds are available, how that money is deployed, and who is more interested in these topics than those who want to improve the health care system in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13370	The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13371	Were the representatives of the disabled in the Fund so far, and what was the problem with them to regulate so far, that you say they're going to regulate now?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13372	The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13373	Thank you. I don't just want the picture to be created, because you said that so far there was a representative of the Association of Persons with Disabilities, we don't want to create a picture that only that representative of the Association with Disabilities is the one responsible for the fact that the Fund may not have functioned well enough. I just said that instead of so many members of the ministry...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13374	Don't throw away the ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13375	... Perhaps better and perhaps more rational to continue to be there one person who would represent persons with disabilities, than those 14 less, seems to me now compared to this 21 member. It's impossible that all these thirteen worked well, only the problem in that one person.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13376	The word is from the People's MP Vladica Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13377	Since the debate has gone too wide, I'm not coming back. Therefore, the replacement of members of the Management Board introduces rationality and efficiency in the business of the Management Board, and savings are introduced. I will repeat, but this proposal introduces responsibility, because for everything the Fund has done so far, you have criticised the government. You didn't criticize the representatives of the insurance company at the Fund. You didn't criticize the representatives of the disabled or the pensioners. You criticized the government. When the government proposes a mechanism of control and a legal basis for responsibility, it does not suit you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13378	The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić, on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13379	I answered from a replica, if I may, Mrs. Mrdakovic, a colleague, because she mentioned me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13380	You can't now. It's been 30 minutes. You can discuss it by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13381	Okay, never mind. I'll use the time... Yeah, according to the amendment. So I was a representative, Madam Chairman, i.e. I was the Director of the Republic Fund at a time when the directors of health institutions were from the DS and our coalition partners, but I was also the director of the SNS. You know what I did? Both of them received criminal charges from me for purposeless budget spending.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13382	That's not exactly an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13383	Well, it's not. It's not commendable for the directors, it's very commendable for me as fund manager, because I was protecting budget money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13384	Thank you. Thank you for your clarification. The word has been made by the MP Dr Ninoslav Giric, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13385	I'll be brief. I agree with my colleague, with the minister, but I'd like to remind you of the key words of this whole story. Efficiency, rationalisation, control of spending, a single policy and what is most important is responsibility. This responsibility is assumed in this way by the Government or the Ministry. Therefore, there are very clear things, there is no need to repeat them. The amendment should be rejected and I think we should complete the discussion on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13386	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13387	I agree with my colleagues from the ruling majority. That's something I've been saying for years. When fellow MPs said this was done to bring control into the Republic Fund. My dears, I absolutely agree with that. There was no clear control in the Republic Fund. I also told Minister Loncar and Minister Djukic Dejanovic that the Fund is out of control. It is only an indication that the Fund's directors were only guided by the decisions of their boards of directors, that they were not listening to the views of the republican governments and the views of the parliamentary majority, but had their two-and-a-half billion euros and they were spending that money as they spent. Serbian citizens branded the Republic Fund as a highly alienated centre of power, an alienated institution that was meant to protect their rights, and it did not protect it. That's why I support it to say -- now we're responsible, that's fine, and let's see how we're going to do in the next period. And not that during the period the Republic Fund acts so that it can't conduct public procurement, that it can't make many tenders, so many hospitals are deprived of the most modern appliances or appliances that we have broken down, which we work with every day because people in the Fund couldn't make those tenders. Clearly, the law was passed. If you have the law you work under that law, if you don't have the opportunity, say it – we can't do that tender. Then give it to the Ministry, or any other sector, the lawyers will come and they'll do it to you. What offended me was that I talked about both in the past and in this conference, we're seeing some people in this Republican fund who are physiotherapists, who are builders, who are tourists, who are with some Megatrend universities, people who don't know where they came from, and then we're officially getting paid, and then we're wondering how the Fund came into this situation. I hope that in the next period there will be no such thing and that the Fund will work more professionally and more responsibly in the interests of the insurance companies themselves. The indicator of the whole story and the confirmation of the whole story is that, you ministers said it wasn't the alien center of power, I told you that it was, even you didn't want to listen to Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, they listen now, but they manage the decisions of their board. We are now introducing a more polite communication, decision-making and the work of the Fund itself. I will give you advice as you start taking responsibility in certain segments of Serbia's health system, given that there are a large number of young doctors at the Bureau, that every year medical schools are dropping quotas and quotas, and that these young doctors are ending up at the Bureau, that we try and find a way to reduce this unlisted policy until these young doctors at the Bureau are hired. This is just hyperproduction of frames, and these kids are just going abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13388	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Dr. Vladica Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13389	Thank you. I have just come from this discussion of yours that you agree with us, that we have convinced you that our arguments are right and that this is a reform that will give some result. That's why I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13390	National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradic, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Branka Karavidic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a Messenger of the people, Dr. Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13391	I thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished professors, colleagues and colleagues, here are now a few words in these twenty, thirty minutes to discuss this amendment, which the party Together submitted for Serbia together with the Social Democratic Party and the Green Party. Since I see that our amendments, however well-intentioned and as reasoned as they may be, will not be accepted, I will address the citizens of Serbia a little bit, explain to them what we are discussing here, explain to them first what the Fund is and why we oppose the proposal of the Ministry and the Government to change the management structure of the Fund, repeat the structure, not the number. The fund as an institution is voluntary, i.e. with us in Serbia, a legally regulated collection of money for a particular activity, and it is called health care. The fund does not heal, the Fund pays for treatment, the Fund is a health money bank that all Serbian workers pay in solidarity so that those who need help in health care institutions, in the plan of the networks that are to receive this health care service and to be treated. That's why the Fund's board of directors, by logic, do things to people who fill their budgets. This is, as the Health Protection Act is also regulated, on a parity basis depending on the percentage of the profession or profile that fills the budget, so you have that employees have 40 and some percent of them who fill the budget and they have 14 representatives in the current Fund. You had pensioners in second place, which was 1,920,000, and they were 28% represented and you had others who were succesively as their percentage were getting seats, so you had union representatives in the Fund, so they delegated their representatives, so you had representatives of the pensioners, so you had a representative of the Chamber of Commerce in front of the private, so you had representatives of the farmers, because they're filling that Fund. The government has proposed to reduce the number and it would be exactly the same, i.e. The fund would remain in that function as it is imagined to be a percentage reduction, so let's say we have two union representatives and one representative of all of these groups that have fewer who are paying into the Fund. What do you want now? This amendment of the law will give us the opportunity to propose four members of the future seven members of the board of directors before the government and on behalf of the Government. The other three will be -- one employee's representative, it's in front of the union, one farmer's representative, one pensioner's representative. I mean, the farmer or the Chamber of Commerce, it doesn't matter. There'll be three or three of them. This puts the Fund in a position not to have a decisive word for those who give money for this solidarity treatment, but it has a policy represented by the Ministry, the government's policy, whatever government it is. It's like I said your legitimate right. But you are changing the essence of the Fund, so the Health Protection Act in Article 209 says – it is prescribed that insurance companies on the Management Board should be represented not only taking into account the category, but also the number of each category of insurance. We're changing the Health Protection Act, and we haven't changed Article 209, who delegates. So, we illegally delegate here, because it doesn't say anywhere that the government delegates most of the Fund, but insurance companies, so those who made the Fund, it's not the budget of the Republic of Serbia, it's not the policy-making money, it's decided by the representatives of those who fill that budget. That's what we're arguing about, what we don't understand. Can you vote that? So you can, you have 210 in the congregation majority, you can vote. You can vote that the country is gambling, let alone change the management of the Fund. You can do that, but you have to know what it does. The Fund is not alone now, all the acts that the Fund brings in, and I remind you that the Director of the Fund is a member of the Serbian Progressive Party and I fully respect the efforts and work of Mr Babic, because for the first time, I am an opposition MP, it turns out that I am the one defending the Fund here, for the first time the social medicine specialist is headed by the Fund, where he belongs, because it is a specialty from the medical profession that deals with the organisation of health care and they know it best. That's why the amendments we've submitted are here. In these amendments there are representatives of social medicine dealing with analysis and work of health institutions. The fact that the Fund has worked badly so far has been bad because every ministry has had to agree to any act of the Fund. There is no act of the Fund that can come out of the Fund without the knowledge of the Ministry. Well, even that famous contract rule that's now being made for next year can be made in the Fund any way you want, it has to give consent to the Ministry of Health, and that's totally fine, and that's how it's supposed to be. The Management Board controls how this Regulation is implemented and how health care institutions receive money. The Management Board sees how money is spent, because the Fund's money is not for health investments, it is for employees' salaries, medicines, sanitary consumer material and health costs. Health investments are being made by the Ministry through the Republic budget. Buying equipment, building buildings, that's the job of the Republic budget, not the Fund. Not to mix grandmothers and frogs. You have the right to make such a decision, but citizens must know that those who are full of the budget no longer have a decisive word in spending that money. So we're building a fund that's not a budget, let's not mix it up. With the Parliament's decision, the citizens' representatives, these citizens no longer have representatives in the majority to decide on the functioning of the Fund, but there are policies, no matter which party led the government. That's why I think the amendment that we have submitted - Together for Serbia, SNS and Green Serbia is acceptable... . Excuse me, SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13392	He was wrong by accident.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13393	Madam Chairman, please give me back these few seconds. ... that it is meaningful and that it is in the function of improving the law, if you want to let the Fund function the way it was designed and created. Stories that there are doctors like this in the Fund, these are the medical committees, but those of our colleagues, the committees we discussed, are the invitation committees of prominent experts from all over Serbia and from certain areas. They're creating a health policy. The fund only implements it in terms of funding. I repeat, don't heal, he pays for the treatment. And what the esteemed colleague Gordana Comic said, the problem is in two billion euros, who will control whether those who fill those two billion euros or control the daily policy, however it may be. It's not even two billion euros anymore. Our decision reduced it by 300m euros. Then the question – why am I against it? Well, I am against it. Why? Because we attack directly, we reduce the possibility of treatment. We made a decision where 30 billion dinars were taken from the Fund and transferred to the Pension Fund. I believe the board of directors was against it. I believe I wasn't there, but I do. Then we have that specializations that are deficiting must be paid for themselves, and it has been said that 300m euros have been saved. The other day, Director Babic came out and said that another 100m euros were saved in the drug tenders, and we have reduced treatment rights, extended rehabilitation, so we have waiting lists, so we have tenders that ended in November of the month, and they were supposed to be tenders for the whole 2014 year, and these public procurements were praised for the installation material in the cataract, a colleague, for the cataract installation completed not full month ago. When will this tender be realized? We are bringing the Fund and the Serbian health care into trouble because of the lack of money that will arise, not this year, but next year, for the simple reason that all tenders that are now completed are being paid under the law of the Ministry of Finance with a currency of 120 days and all these commitments will be transferred in the next financial year. It is not until the next 2015 that we will see the consequences of this decision that we are making today and that we made a few months ago. The moment it's necessary, there's a lot of money in the Fund, and then we take it off, and then we talk parallelly that there's no money. We're talking about there's money in the Fund, then we're forming a Fund for the Treatment of Rare Diseases in children, where we need to pay a voluntary contribution, and I remind you, children are required to see health insurance. So far, it's been funded from the Fund. The Commission in the Fund decided whether or not to finance the treatment. I don't know how it's going to be in the new rulebook, let's wait for the regulation to be passed, to accept it by the ministry, to see how any segment of Serbian health is treated in the rulebook and what patients have the right to do and what they don't have. If we already have a 100,000-euro savings, why don't we cut the participation? Why don't we cut the participation? Do we have any extra money? Did you manage to make a tender of surplus money, quality and fair-headed tenders? Yes, it is. Well, why do you want that money to go to another position, so be it for what people have separated the money for. Let's free them from participation. Why double the price? I'm afraid it's just political marketing and that we're going to be in trouble with that part of the functioning of a society that's hard to get out of trouble, especially our health care, which has been going through with the money years back. Health care in Serbia only has money in this room, there is no money in health care outside of this room. What I told you in the principle debate, we by regulation, by law, we can repack the budget any way you want, one problem is in health – illness, illness can't be reduced by regulation. This way we reduce the possibility of treatment. Without doubting at all the good intentions of the Minister, I have absolutely no doubt, honestly, but I do not think that this decision, when the Republic Fund is taken under the direct function of politics and when the Fund is changed, is the basis for the Fund to be decided by those who give money rather than politics, that we will have serious problems in the future. So once again, I ask you to accept our amendment, so that we may leave the function of the Fund as it has been so far. I thank you for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13394	I have to give an MP a word first to free the minister's system. The word has the People's MP Alexander Peranovic, so I give the minister my word because we don't have a table of 250 people. Some of the SNS MPs give up so the minister can apply. I need a place. Sign up now, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13395	Dear President, honourable ministers, gentlemen of the ministry, distinguished fellow MPs, indeed this debate now seems pointless. The previous days we talked about reforms, about savings, and exactly the Ministry and the Government have proposed that 21 members of the Management Board be removed to seven members. counterpart Bačevac said that the board of directors cost, if I am not mistaken, 100,000 euros annually. Isn't this savings, isn't this reform? I think such a board of directors for seven members can be both rational and operational and in the service of all Serbian citizens. The amendment that has been proposed should be completely rejected, and now I'm going to make a statement that I've noticed. Let me also say that I was wrong, here, and the amendment promoter is here who said that this board of directors has nine members. Of those nine members proposed by the minister, one member of the health ministry in the medicine sector, two members of social medicine specialists, one member on a proposal from the Health Institute Chamber, one member of the insurance company, one member of the insurance company, one member of the insurance company, one member of the pensioner insurance company and one member of the farmer's insurance company. If I know how to count, there are eight members here for the board of directors. Gentlemen, it is not disputed to accept some amendment. Four amendments were accepted from fellow Milosavljevic. And this could have been discussed, but eight members were proposed here, and you said you needed the board of directors to have nine. One more thing, we're discussing how this board of directors will spend someone's money. Whose fund is this? Is he the founder of the State Fund? We've heard that he needs to be a service, one flow water heater, so what are we talking about next? Finally, to avoid debt, citizens were clearly identified in March and should be supported. There won't be any abuses here, and I don't know why anyone recognizes themselves in that board of directors where the four-member minister proposes to have control of the money and to spend someone's money. No, gentlemen, the Ministry doesn't have to, as we heard on the board yesterday, propose four members only from the Ministry. It could be someone from the Disabilities Association, if the minister estimates he should suggest such a person. Once again, don't find yourself offended, why did you propose a lobotomy board? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13396	The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13397	He apologizes, but I still didn't understand you. First you say you're defending the Fund, and then you bring out everything you're not happy with in the Fund, you've made five points out, and then you say it's up to the people who've been sitting on the board so far, and then you say it goes to consent. Just explain to me what your final position is, what you've decided, are these people who sat on the board of directors, 21 of them and represented everyone you're looking for, did they work well, should they continue to work? Do you support the Fund or criticise it? Just make that clear, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13398	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13399	Yes, a replica of colleagues. Yeah, buddy, you're absolutely right. You noticed what I noticed, but it was too late, when it was handed over. The typing was wrong. In principle, if there is a good will, you have power, you have a Health Committee that can now correct the amendment and leave the essence. The point is, Mr. Minister, that I protect the Fund as an institution and how it's imagined. The fund is a place where all Serbian citizens, by decision of all Serbian citizens, pay money and thus finance treatment, and they decide how that money will be spent. That's why it's called the Fund. You and I make a fund, we give our money, and we decide, not a colleague from across the street, but you and I, because we formed a fund. It's the essence of the fund. You have the right, I repeat, to change the way in the fund – that we all pay, and that politics, whatever it is, leads the main word in it. It's legitimate, but it must be known that you're changing the underlying premise of the Fund and the functioning of the Fund. That's the point. How many members are there going to be? As long as you want, it doesn't matter. Did you save seven? Make it seven, but let's keep the fund's structure in mind that those who charge the fund, that's what the Fund is designed to do, decide on spending the money. The second alternative proposed by the Minister and the Government and which you support is that those who are filling the Fund's budget are no longer asked and have no deciding vote on spending money, but representatives elected by the ministry, i.e. Government. It's legitimately your right and I don't slow it down, but it's no longer the Fund, it's budget money. Then let's get rid of the Fund and make sure it's all in the budget and it can. What do these three representatives, one union representative, play, have the power to decide?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13400	Did you say replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13401	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13402	The word is Dr. Darko Ducketic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13403	President-in-Office, respected ministers, members of his team, distinguished fellow MPs, above all we are all aware of the situation in health care, we are all aware that there is no money, and we are also aware of the need to reform the health care as soon as possible. What I'd like to say is that this discussion in this way of exposing, proposing and telling certain ideas to me is not acceptable. Here's why. First of all, citizens need to know that the current opposition during its previous rule really had the opportunity to change, not just the board of directors, but to make all the necessary reforms in health care that were really and then necessary as today. But they didn't do it. Now they're asking to increase in this way their proposals. They argue that this raises concerns in financial resources, not only in the RFO, but thus increasing the control of these funds. Personally, I think that in this proposed way, the amendments to the RFO Management Board will establish this through the necessary control of money spending, and we are aware once again of what kind of public affairs are being talked about a few days or a dozen days ago. So it's important that we put things in place. It's significant that everything that's been going on inside, not just the RFO, but within the health system at all, we don't allow it to happen anymore. I also heard from the opposition MPs one finding that the board of directors in this format that was so far not good and that those people who were on the board of directors did not defend the interests of those insurance companies that had delegated them, if I understood correctly. Then why don't you change? Here, we have a proposal to change that, and that's practically the introduction to the reform we're talking about today, because the funds, so where are the funds being spent? They're spent in health care, they're spent on insurance, they're spent on space, equipment, etc. What's very important is that first of all, when you propose to change something that's not good, now it's a problem. Honestly, I don't see a problem here. I saw the problem in the earlier period, and when there was no defence of the interests of those people who had delegated them and those dams, besides this Fund and this Fund Management Board, which was in this format, with representatives of many 21-member insurance companies. What's also clear, I think that practice of always swallowing something, and in this case it's a member of the board of directors in the proposal, I think it should belong to the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13404	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13405	Thank you, Chairman. The proposed amendment, of course, should be rejected, but I would like to remind my esteemed and respected colleagues from the former regime, since I have the impression that they have amnesia at this point, I would like to remind them of some things. In 2006, the Ministry of Health and then the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the DS, and the Republic Health Insurance Fund, voted in a law to stop dental health care for most of our country's citizens. I think the opposition colleague, being a dentist, knows what I'm talking about. That's what's causing the problem right now. We know that dentists are not funded by RFO funds, which in the overall situation leads to a collapse in the health system. About how, when and how someone was protecting budget funds at the time when the gentleman in question was director of the RFO branch of Nis, I was a worker of the largest primary health care facility, and that he mentioned criminal charges and to his representative from the DS and my SNS, we know perfectly in Nis how, in what way and under what circumstances. How much the estranged power center is, or how alienated is the power center, or individual branches, it is true that the directors of individual branches have never signed any funding agreement with health institutions, and many of them do not know what health institutions are from the network plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13406	Thank you. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. You can only follow the amendment. The word has Dr. Blagoja Bradić, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13407	So, what do you say after the amendment? With all due respect to colleagues who are discussing, I would only ask that we return to the amendment story, because of the functioning of the Fund and the reason for the reduction and non-reduction of the number of members, and how the Serbian health care functioned, the former assistant minister of Serbian health, who sits as a national MP. My question is: what did you, a colleague, do for Serbian health care as an aide, which this enlightenment took place a year and a half to two after being a ministerial assistant? Why didn't you do that when it was time? As for the functioning of the Fund and alienated centres of power, there is something called the Republic Fund and it is the bank of money for the treatment of Serbian citizens. The Republic Fund is not part of the Ministry of Health, the Republic Fund is a bank of money. The Ministry of Health heals, and the Republic Fund on behalf of the insurance company contracts the required number of services. The Ministry of Health with a network plan can contract, respected colleagues, with Zanzibar's treatment. The Republic Fund leases that part of the health ministry's capacity needed to treat the insurance company. This requires autonomy in deciding how to manage the money of the Republic Fund. How do you think the Republic Fund, which is influenced by the day-to-day policy, works when we open the door and when we even private and public health? Normally, it will have to be financed differently by state health, not by buying a plan, but by invoice by what you do to pay to translate. How do you think politics will then be able to decide whether to finance more private or state health? It's up to those who give money, the Fund. We've gathered together and put money on a pile to heal and we decide. That's how the Fund works. What you want to make a decision means that it is not up to those who are filling the Fund's budget to decide the policy. It's legitimate law and I don't dispute it at all. (Alexander Radojevic, from the place: What is the problem then? The problem is that I explain to people that it's the wrong decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13408	Please, we need to delete the list first to give the word to Mr. Secretary, but first we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please, you have to wait for order. All right, I need to delete the list first.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... Please, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, did I get my word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13410	You didn't get the word. Please wait. You have to get the word because you're after the Rules of Procedure, you have the advantage. Hold on, Mr. Laketice.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've got my word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13412	Do you understand me, MPs are reporting, a large number of MPs. We only have six places to report here. So you have to let a man sign up so he can get a word in.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13413	The Honorable Chairman, my name and last name is standing in front of your character.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13414	Mr. Pavicevic, you didn't get the word, please. The word has the People's MP, Aleksandar Peranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13415	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, a member of 106, where the speaker can only speak of the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. In a given amendment, I made it clear that this amendment was wrong. What are we discussing today? We have eight people, or eight members. It is stated that the Management Board, following an amendment proposed by a former regime colleague, has nine. I really find it pointless to talk about this today because if it takes a ninth member to be from the Post Office or any other institution, I couldn't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13416	The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13417	If we can get this straight at last, and I think we're close. Are you willing to keep it the same, if I understand you well from your exposure? Are you in favour of all being represented and having them decide, as they have decided so far? Now I'm asking you as a colleague. Are you willing to keep this the same? You're saying that those who have been so far decide to keep it that way? You're happy how it worked and you're willing to keep it that way? All the objections you've made to the Fund, what about it? Who's gonna fix that? Please, just explain to me, to make it more clear to me, are you willing to keep this as it was, despite all your grudges that you have?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13418	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13419	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I really don't understand the opposition MP who mentioned me in the discussion, here's why. First, he explains how the RFZO's board was quite different, that almost all the representatives of the insurance companies were represented in the board of directors and commented in such a way that they defended the interests of these insurance companies and that the ministry had no impact on everything that was going on, and at the same time only realised that during that period, practically, the Ministry of Health had no impact on the work of the RFZO and that RFZO was an independent institution, an institution that worked in its own way. After that, in his later presentation he mentioned me as an assistant minister who needed a completely different one, what he did with the funds and finances of the RFO. I think that my former talker and current truly is a form of a controversial person. What I can say, which I insist on, is to establish the use of RFO funds, not only in branches in Belgrade, but also in a branch in Nis, to determine the possible existence of millions of damages to refunds, which were not valid, to determine whether there were dead people who had been introduced into insurance to refund. This is what must, by law, be established and see if it really happened, and not only in Nis but also in other branches. That's my request and my proposal to you, Mr. Minister, to deal with it at some point.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13420	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13421	So, that's something we need to base that enhanced control on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13422	The word has Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13423	Ladies and gentlemen, maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea to ask the insurance company what they think? They think they need a well-organized health care facility in which they can get health care in the most qualified way, and who will decide, however, they have confidence in the state. I think maybe these are questions and answers. Our people say, "I am not sorry for a little, I am sorry for the injustice." And he always thinks it's unfair what's going on from the state, if he thinks it's wrong. That's why I think that at this very moment exactly the requirements that my colleague Bradic is talking about, we can only realize that in those instances where he decides how to distribute money for health care, those who best know the health problems of the institution, their representatives on the board of directors, we will never be able to have representatives of all groups, because then the board should count hundreds of people and again we won't be satisfied, we will drop someone again. So two arguments. On the one hand, the proper distribution of funds must include when deciding those who best know the needs of health institutions. That's why I advocate this proposal, and that's why my colleague Bradic and I often talk and agree on many things, but today I really can't agree. Simply, the counterargument of everything you speak of is the need to maintain a similar condition. That's unacceptable. On the other hand, there's a rumor here that there's a problem with the financial flows of money. You know, in addition to those structures within each institution that are obliged to take care of it, I'd like to remind you that the financial inspection services have the right to control everything. So with these two approaches, we can absolutely correctly solve and perhaps only correctly. I just feel like we don't understand each other here. I don't argue that all doctors who participate first and foremost in the debate here have the best intentions. But if we're witnessing the fact that our security guard isn't asking who's sitting on his board, but he's asking what kind of health care is, I don't think there's any reason for us to be unique, how we are on the board yesterday, and we're acting here in accordance with the proposal we have ahead of us and voting for him. So, not for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13424	I thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. The word has the People's MP Dr. Milet Poscurica. Please, just re-apply. There are a lot of applications, and you have to understand that the system can't handle it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13425	I've been on stand-by for a long time, but here I am, getting to the words, in front of the party, as an authorised representative. I haven't even responded to the first amendment, it's similar to this second one. The point is only in the number of those who will act as a board of directors, i.e. we will see and later, the Supervisory Board. The discussion leads in a completely different direction, to me vaguely. In the direction of some criticism that politics, by setting up a larger number of members, will be directly involved in health care. I do not know the systems in Serbia, the ministries, in which either the minister is a politician or the political party has been elected. Does this mean that nothing will work in Serbia because somewhere there is a minister from that political party and the entire ministry and other resolutions and state institutions, that someone must not be educated, that someone must not be treated because it has a political connotation? I don't see what's controversial. And if not, we should even suggest that there be people there who will propose the ministry. Why? Not only because it will be more operational, but because the necessary interaction that exists between the two pillars of the health system must function coordinatedly. This self-governance model, which is not good now, does not show regret that it is smaller, let it be smaller, but it was a representative clean self-government model in which all service subscribers reported relatively percentage per key, shows a lot of weaknesses, except glamour, shows no explanation of the pre-dominant impact of spending on different needs, even frequently pre-named. You remember the cytostatic affair. Even cytostatics were invented, so a huge number of cytostatics that weren't needed, so people either were or weren't getting, so in the part of the supply of equipment, let's say when it comes to the dialysis material, and on the other hand, you get a completely different donor type of machine used, and then you go to the fund for the purchase of consumer material. There was no harmony there. If it had been the Ministry to say -- wait, we have 400 machines that Tomica shared in the night, in three months, destroyed the system in Serbia. He brought in machines that now lie like dead people under a sheet, unused. Then the Fund had to find compatible dialysis. If there was a man from the Ministry, he'd say-- wait, this isn't compatible, this kind of donation isn't useful. Then you have to adjust the tenders you're doing, some other kind of lines, sets, that the machines that are covered in dust, because we didn't need them at all, but some donation came. It's never been questioned at all. With the help of Tommy's work, nobody's ever been more serious, I'll never know why, but well, that's how it is, so that side of the story. Secondly, we are all witnesses that we are here by adopting the budget, by also assessing the financial resources of the Fund, aren't there partitions that are defined for what and where the money is going. On the side, controls of every species that must be. I don't see what that bad link is, which will be proposed by the minister, maybe even by someone in the structure you've put in the amendment here. Secondly, even the crown majority of those who would be beneficiaries of the fund under the insurance structure are not presented in the amendment. You've got some people again, social medicine, this one or that one. So, I don't see any reason to raise huge dust around it, whether it's going to be included in the Ministry's work. It can't reroute positions. A third thing, when people detest, when children, government organizations need to be treated. And when they strike or rally, or show public events of dissatisfaction that the state has no money, as it really does not, to cover everything, but do not go to the Fund, go to the Ministry, call the minister. The minister must be involved through his people, who he proposes to be there, that in some ways he can make himself official and make coherent and joint work of those two systems, because one without the other cannot be absolutely independent and completely independent. It would then be a completely inappropriate way of spending money and would lose any control. That's why I don't think this should be debated for too long, although it may be politically very useful, to insert, kobajagi, control mechanism, ministry and political influence. You have political influence in education control systems, educational inspections, sanitary inspections, customs, everywhere you can say – it is called a body in another ministry's portfolio, it is under political control that is not for the citizens of Serbia to benefit. It's a completely unsustainable story, really. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13426	Thank you, Dr. Pocurica. The word has been given by the People's MP Dr. The Queen of Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13427	Thank you, Chairman. I wasn't the fund manager or the fund's branch manager, and I can't discuss the amendments on a parity basis, but since he was talking to citizens, as a citizen, as an insurance company, from which part of the funds are paid for the Health Fund, I'm interested in how money is spent, and I'm even more interested in who's responsible for spending that money. You're talking to the citizens, but I guarantee you the citizen had no idea how his money was being spent, and an even less ordinary citizen you're talking to had an impact on where his money would go. We all realized that something was wrong, that something was wrong, that something had to be changed, and we suggested the principle of responsibilities. That's what citizens want, responsibility. It doesn't suit you. Why don't you tell us why you're not comfortable with the introduction of responsibility, and why should we go back to the old system, which you yourself are criticizing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13428	Thank you, Dr. Dimitrov. The word has been given by the People's MP Dr. Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13429	Thank you. So, Mr. Minister, just two words to answer two words to what you asked me. Yeah, I'm for the Fund to stay the Fund. The bottom line of the Fund is that there's a lot of leverage in it for those who give money, and I think that's where we understand each other. The proposal I made, I think, is constructive, because it is very necessary to create a list of medicines for someone from the Ministry of Health, who works on the affairs of analysis of these lists, medicines, psychoactive substances, because they need representatives from the Institute of Public Health, because they follow that everything, which the Ministry imagines, and which is funded by the Fund, is going on in the field, and very necessary are representatives of the Chamber of Health institutions, not the directors of health institutions, but someone, because they have employees who know what the problem is that health institutions. I'm about to keep the Fund essentially what it is. We're here discussing a Fund that's like a Fund designed and created where in the governing bodies of people who participate in filling the Fund. You want to change, you have the right to do it, but be aware that it's no longer the Fund, that's what I'm trying to explain to you. What kind of fund is that where the four of us invest money, and the fifth one decides, whoever the fifth one is? It doesn't matter. The essence of the Fund has been moved out. You have the right to do so, but you need to be heard and known. For me to keep the Fund functioning, to supplement any errors in work to professional people, but the decision to spend money should be made by those who give money. I represent that interest, and I think I'm clear enough. Are you right? I don't think so. I don't think you're, I'm not trying to, I'm trying to change and on the board to explain why I don't think that's right. Why do I think we have to put aside that kind of decision, that we have to leave the right to people who are filling the Fund to decide the fate of those couples? They're not professional. No, let's give them the profession to be on the board, as I suggested, to help them work. But you're saying that those who charge money, and who give money, aren't capable of having money, is that what you're saying? You're wrong. You're wrong. We're talking about it, I'm going to mention again, we're talking about the problem of funding, there's not enough money, the state is in trouble, and we said that you were talking, standing behind the position of former minister Krstic, that 300 million is surplus in the Fund. A few months ago, we're looking into the eyes here, and you've moved into retirement. There's no money now. There's no way. There's little, there's little. Is there or is there no money in the Fund? Is it the board of directors' fault? No, he wasn't. He wasn't even asked. We've been asked here. We have that power to do. There's a lot of us doctors. You're from state health, I'm from private health, and I'm defending the state's health to keep his money. Okay, I'm trying as hard as I can, and how much mind does it give me? So I ask you once again to think about correcting my unscheduled amendment, there you have the power, you have the votes, and to leave the Fund essentially as it is imagined with all those changes that we've come to here through the conversation, what needs to be fixed, but that the essence remains the same, that those who give money to the Fund have the advantage, the decision to spend that money, that's the essence of the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13430	Thank you, Dr. Bradic. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13431	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, members of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, I will never again report to this amendment. I think he should be turned down for technical failure. So the amendment promoter didn't even read his amendment and cited the structure as missing one member, he listed nine members, and eight are in this. So, let me remind you of something else, he talked about all the health problems, he listed waiting lists, these lists aren't from six months ago, these waiting lists last, I don't know how many years. He was talking about tenders. What were the tenders during the earlier period? But I don't think this amendment and these amendments that bid on the number of board members should be discussed at all and I think this amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13432	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13433	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I wonder who this ninth member would be under the proposed amendment of fellow Bradic, if all are listed and written here. It's a joke on the side. What I'm saying is that what the Fund has been doing so far, what the Fund has been up to now, is dealing with itself, not dealing with those who are filling the Fund and not dealing with those who need to spend that money on patients. The most perfidious are the ways in which the Fund took out money for itself and for its people. Let me give you an example - the EU invested some 2006 or 2007, in a large number of health centres in Cačka in the production of parenteral solution for the production of infusion. Infuzione solutions have been very successful in building health centres throughout Serbia up to five or six years ago, when the Fund's decision to stop using the facilities to produce parenteral medicines was suspended. For the general public, one bottle of half a liter of infusion solution, sodium chloride consists of four and a half grams of kitchen salt and a little less than half a liter of water. What the EU-funded plant has done for health rationality in Cacca for 30 dinars has now been transferred by the Fund's decision to drive from Hemofarma from Vrsac or from Zdravlja Leskovci. That solution in Chačka now costs 70 dinars. That solution is used on average for 4,000 bottles during the week in Chačka. So multiply it by 40 health centers in Serbia with all clinical centres and with all those who have had the opportunity to produce their parenteral solutions with some small kitchen salts and clean distilled water, and RFZO is for rationalization, I guess spending a pair of people filling that fund, abolished it and determined that it must be obtained through a mediator somewhere on the side. It is a simple logic that RFZO, probably through its intermediaries, has so far made a good deal with those who drive, and infuzione dissolve and drive across Serbia or import them from different sides. It's one of thousands of examples of how money was spent by people who, with their participation and with their money, paid for what's called their treatment. If we didn't go into the analysis of all these examples, but we'd stay for seven days if we talked, I really have to say that it was very creative of them to do what they did, the acrobatics in which they sucked out taxpayers' money, or health insurance, so the cure doesn't come to them at all. The essence of this change is now that we have an efficient board of directors, of course, and a supervisory board that I hope will be as responsible as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in charge, able to distribute money hard-earned and separate taxpayers' money to serve the treatment of patients, to treat them, and to serve to improve the standards of health care employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13434	Thank you, Mr. Radojevic. The word has Professor Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13435	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister of Loncar and the Honorable Guests, I have three observations concerning the amendment to Article 1 of this bill, which he defended just before here, Mr. Bradic. (Ninoslav Girić, from the post: Which member? ) Article 1 is amended and reads...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13436	Please, Mr. Giric, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13437	Please, gentlemen, let's follow closely. Some objections here are being told to opposition MPs because of technical mistakes, and here we have MPs who don't know what we're discussing today, apparently.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13438	Go on, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13439	Thank you. So there are three observations, gentlemen, and I'd like to ask you to pay attention because I'd like to make these observations and see how to fix this text of the law. First observation, Minister Loncar, to you. When Mr. Bradic here explained his amendment, you of course announced that you were refusing the amendment, but one argument is expected for refusal. One government minister is not expected to ask questions to the MPs, and then the MPs answer the question. It's not a practice in the Assembly, Your Honor, Mr. Lonchar, here's the Constitution, just to let you know. In the Constitution of our country in Article 99 says – The National Assembly oversees the work of the Government. People's MPs, Mr. Loncar, are the ones who should keep asking you questions in the context of the amendment debate, and you are our guest who has come to answer these questions and not to ask them, Mr. Minister. So I ask you to answer all these questions, Mr. Bradic, instead of asking him a question. The second thing, as regards the amendment to Article 1, gentlemen, I have listened very carefully here, one of the basic reasons for refusing this amendment, for even disqualifying the proposings in one part, which we are terribly resenting here, was the knowledge that the amendment has a technical error. Be careful, Mr. Bradic accepted the water that there was a technical error in the form of a kind of indeterminateness. He apologized for this and suggested how to correct this mistake, gentlemen, and I remind you that whenever Minister Loncar comes to this assembly, he sends out bill proposals and explanations of laws that have spelling errors, technical errors, stylish language errors, and then it is not an obstacle for the MPs of the progressive majority here to accept this bill. Here and Mr. Lonchar was here the day before yesterday I confirmed that for the third time he'd made a failure of that kind here. Dear gentlemen, these failures can be repaired, which is obvious or, for example, we had a debate here yesterday, where, for example, Mr Babic, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, admitted that he was wrong to leave the draft law in the light of a bill. What were we supposed to do? Should we say now – gentlemen, we cannot talk about this bill at all today because Mr Babic has made a technical mistake. Please, when the technical mistakes of opposition MPs are observed, then I think we have one normal trail of things, to correct it if we can, and not to cultivate a culture in which the minister can accept everything, all sorts of technical and spelling mistakes, and the head of the parliamentary majority here to accept everything, and when a technical error is observed to the opposition MP, then it's a big problem, we can't discuss it. Third observation on the amendment Mr. Bradic defended here. Members of the SNS, I have recorded it here saying about this amendment and Mr Dimitrov and Mr Girić and Mrs Mrdakovic, now come out, but there was also Mr Peranovic and Laketić, they all called for responsibility, respected gentlemen, on the ethics of responsibility, and what does Minister Loncar say just before in dialogue with Mr Bradic and the other gentlemen? He says -- gentlemen, we don't have much time to discuss different models, to choose between different options, but we have to act quickly and then send here a bill that he says applies from 1 January 2016, and within the framework of Article 59 he says -- and it can last until the first of January 2020. What is this responsibility, gentlemen, when it is said - there is no time, and here it is left to certain actors time from now on. What's that until 2020? Six years to adjust, gentlemen. We stick to that responsibility and ethics of responsibility, first of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13440	I thank Mr Pavicevic, but you will agree, distinguished professor, that it is not the same technical error in the amendment and the interpretation of the amendment or the law. I thank the Word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13441	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting as a patient. I checked in five times, but it looks like the system only recognizes doctors today. The patients in Serbia have eight million, the doctor has 22 thousand. Patients who are professionally farmers have about two million. There's one of us here, there's two of us, so one of us abdicated, stopped being a winemaker. So we're participating with 0.4% in the National Assembly, as farm-type patients to call it that, and this has to do with the composition of the board of directors, you'll see. There are over 20 doctors here, there are 22,000 in Serbia, so there are 0.4 or less, but that's why there are over 10% in the Assembly. When it comes to doctors and lawyers, that's the debate. When it comes to farmers, it ends with pity, tears, sympathy -- our chances are in the country, etc., but when it comes to the allocation, when it comes to distribution, then that debate becomes -- there's no money, there's no this, there's no that. When it comes to lawyers, they say they have to be cobwebs, when they're discussing doctors, they have to be cobwebs. So, when there's a debate going on here, I'd like her to be treated for patients. I'd support Mr. Bradic's amendment, but I've admitted that he's an understatement. I would support it in another version, and it's so unspeakable, I will vote for it, but that Mr. Bradic lists only the parties that make up the electoral list on which he was elected, but without reminding me that I noticed that he mixed parties. At one point, he said the SNS was there, and I don't think so. I can also mention that to the other colleague who spoke before me. Thanks to those they will miss, these coalitions have crossed the censorship, and today they are our dear colleagues. To get back to the board of directors. I support every savings. Yesterday I supported a three-and-a-half million savings, but for the three-and-a-half million we saved on political parties yesterday, on all political parties, and on opposition parties, let's buy 2,000 cows for that money. We saved three and a half million. If we buy 2,000 cows, that's our money. The goods are money. That's what we always have. Those 2,000 cows on milk and meat, to say live scales, will give four million a year. Saves three and a half million, turns into cows, hosts of people, each year we have four million euros in a larger social product in the country. If it's processed in our dairy, and even though it's processed in our butchers and slaughterhouses, it's not going to be four, it's going to be eight million, so these small savings can be big profits. Today, if we pass this law, we will save 100,000 euros, as I understand it. For 100,000 euros, you can buy 3,000 supra-species. Maybe it's funny to someone, but they'll pollinate and create a possibility every year for 60,000 passengers. If we peasants drown them, it will give us 1,200,000 euros a year. If we turn it and convert it into dry meat products, we will have 3,000,000 euros each year from this savings. That's why I'm pushing for all these savings we make to push into agriculture and the processing industry. Why am I saying this? If 6% of gross domestic product goes to health care, if I've calculated it well, if we increase the social product, then you won't have two billion. If we increase it from 30 million to 60, then, gentlemen of health care workers, gentlemen of the patient, we will have far more money in that fund, double money, if we increase the gross social product. That's why I'm pushing for all these savings we create to go into production. Speaking of farmers, I have to tell Mr. Minister, and the future members of the Management Board, one of whom will be a farmer, as I understand it, we will not have on the Supervisory Board, on the Management Board we will have a representative of a representative association, I will certainly look at what a representative association is and who will represent us. Since he's got a problem in the country. Farmers and workers aren't equal, they don't have the same rights. You won't believe me, but I'll explain. If the owner has not reported, unless he has been paid contributions, he can hardly be treated, he cannot have these services, but if he moves to the employer who reports him, from that moment on, he has the right to be treated. In the farmer, that's not the case. If you've had a three-year jump, during that time you couldn't heal, you've had to pay medical services, but no one's gonna erase your debt. If you go, if you're in charge of 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013, they'll come and take your property because you didn't pay those contributions. If you pay 2014 there is no such possibility to pay it. In order for you to be able to heal yourself, you must first niche the soul to pay for the current year, and only then to heal yourself. In the case of employees, this is not the case, and I will be praying to this man on the Management Board, and I ask all of you to think this through, because people are not being paid for their contributions in the period 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 because they didn't pay for it, although at that time they couldn't even use the services, and those who can't pay for it in just 2014, and they can't be treated, until the worker to whom the employer doesn't pay health insurance, goes over to the other employer who does it, he has the right to heal from that moment on. I think it's an injustice that's been done to farmers and we have to find a way, I realize it's hard, any one of us to make it right. As for the total funds, I agree with Mr. Doctors that the funds are small. What interests us patients is that we want to reduce the waiting room lines anyway. We want quality service, and it costs money. We want to cut the lines in the waiting rooms, cut that list and wait time for important surgery, chemo, etc. And we want to have quality medications and quality treatment. To have it, we must, and farmers will try, to raise the processing industry as close as possible to the site of production, to increase this gross social product to have more money for doctors, for medicines, for health services. A poor country this rich in Germany gives doctors. Every doctor who leaves is a gift to Germany of at least 100,000 euros. That's what the Minister knows best. We've got enough medical staff. We need money. Money is made. It's usually where people who know how money is spent, not how it's made. Our problem is great. Our agriculture, our economy was managed by consumers, not by producers. That's why our production is weak and we need to increase production. Otherwise, we'll only be here to debate the redistribution of poverty. I'm here to spend more, but first to produce goods, to make money, to share together, to have doctors have great salaries, not to go to Germany, to have the highest quality medical services, but, ladies and gentlemen, maybe we'd have that if it weren't for 400,000 people in the past seven, eight years, it's been out of the business chain. Now I ask you how many pension contributions, health contributions more, how many goods would they produce more? We must learn from their mistakes. We don't need to learn about our own. Their mistakes and learning from their mistakes is our best school. We don't want to twist people's hands. We need to turn our sleeves and allow our citizens to earn money and no longer deal with the redistribution of poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13442	Thank you. The word has Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13443	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, I ask the question with which Mr Pavicevic's right calls for the responsibility of earlier speakers when most of them did not absolutely participate in the executive government or participated in some short-term law, with which right when it is known that his head was prime minister of state and the party on whose list was elected as long-time holder of power? And after this, in my opinion, underprivileged comments, I really need to turn to political astrology, because by the date of establishment, as far as I can see, I think the New Party in political astrology is a sign of cancer, but it's definitely a sign of tumor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13444	Thank you. The word has Professor Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13445	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Mr. Lonchar, gentlemen, are two things I want to say here now. I mentioned to the respected SNS gentlemen that we are all together here, this morning, today, discussing amendments to one draft law, and here, in particular, the amendment to Article 1. The bill Mr. Bradic defended here. All the gentlemen mentioned, dear Mr. Becic and the esteemed Mr. Laketić, all the gentlemen referred to the principle of responsibility within our country's health system, as I understood. I tried to call on the principle of responsibility to bind one part of the speech of Mr. Loncar, in which he asked to make a quick decision, not to discuss different models. We don't have time -- said Mr. Lonchar. Then I read in the second draft of the law that the application of this bill is foreseen for 2016, and the adaptation of the functioning of certain institutions and other forms of this bill is foreseen for 2020, respected gentlemen. What did I conclude? That, within today's debate on an amendment to Article 1 of this Bill, we have MPs of an advanced party who are calling for a principle that is nurtured in politics in Serbia by the New Party, which is the principle of ethic responsibility, but that this principle of ethics is contrary to what Mr Loncar is now saying and what he is talking about. So I'm asking you, in the future, when we're discussing, we're discussing exactly what's really been said today, and not some past ten years, five years ago, because we can talk about it, but when that's the point of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13446	Time. Thank you, Professor Pavicevic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13447	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, Mr. Chairman. It's no problem that you represent Mr. Pavicevic with - Professor. You don't know that Mr. Pavicevic is not a professor, but a doctor. The problem is that Mr. Pavicevic responds to - Professor. It is no problem that I am not a doctor, which I am not a doctor, the problem would be if you responded to – Dr. Babiæ. But I'm not that. I'm a graduate engineer. Well, is that what Mr. Pavicevic is doing with his party's ethics and his professor's ethics and MP ethics and all kinds of ethics when he responds to something he's not? I say again, you have violated the Rules of Procedure, yes, because you can only violate the Rules of Procedure, by calling him Professor. But the professor didn't. The problem is that, contrary to principles, against ethics, against parliamentary ethics. After all, well, if the parliamentary ethics were of the New Party, Mr. Zivkovic would have been at the office long ago and resigned to the MP's office, but the problem is that we have been hearing about Professor Pavicevic here for days and days, and Professor Pavicevic is not in the O.R. There's no such man. Doctor -- yes, it's okay, but I don't understand how a man responds to something he's not. Why don't you invite some other people to call on something they're not? Surely to stand up here and say - we did not warn you, but like this, you raise Mr. Pavicevic daily on the hierarchical scale and he accepts it, although it has nothing to do with ethical norms, nothing right in this room, but not in our society and thus violates norms and within his party...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13448	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13449	... Because if they shut it down from that party, there'll be only one member left and then he'll be in trouble. So I warn you, but please also warn Mr Pavicevic that it is bad when he responds to something he is not.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13450	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I'm obliged to give an explanation. I'm just reading what it says here, and it wouldn't have been written here if someone hadn't reported it. So, I apologize for reading what's written and apologize if that's true, and I didn't know that, I apologize. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Well, it is plagiarism, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Granny, please don't throw it away. Please, Mr. Granny, let me finish. I will now ask, since I will give my word to Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, may I use the name - Professor Doctor? Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister of Loncar and the Honorable Gentlemen, was injured by Article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Let me explain. It is a great pleasure and I am pleased to see in my speech the head of the parliamentary group of the largest parties in this assembly mention my last name more than five times. If it hadn't been for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I would have certainly had the right to reply, but since it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I believe that, in the context of the use of this violation, Mr Babic did something that should have caused you to intervene, then I am advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear gentlemen, I am a professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade. I reported that title and calling when it was asked of me in this assembly and not only that, but when Mr. Becic and the other gentlemen who chaired the National Assembly were telling me that I was a doctor, I took a session and called to check the stenographic notes here, gentlemen. To tell the honored gentlemen that I still don't have a teacher's call, but to have a doctor's call at Belgrade University. Dear gentlemen, apparently this intervention of mine wasn't enough to prevent, for example. Mr. Becic and the other gentlemen to address me and represent me as a professor. That means something to me. I think that might mean something to this gentleman who's a national MP. When a National MP leaves such an impression on one of the presidents or presidents in his work and in the Assembly, that they think – here is the professor and constantly speaking to the professor, it is a great pleasure for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13452	Let me give you an explanation. I couldn't stop Mr. Babic, as you asked me to, for the reason I had to listen to what he wanted to tell me. He gave some information I didn't know. I apologize to the Assembly for using that title for Mr Pavicevic these days. I was just reading in the amendments, when the Honorable Doctor Pavicevic proposed an amendment, it said – Professor Dr Pavicevic. I was just reading it, that's how I called it. I ask the service of the National Assembly no longer to use the title of Professor Vladimir Pavicevic as Honorable Doctor Pavicevic in the amendments. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13453	Article 104, Honored Chairman. If you, with good intentions or any other intention, were to call and say, the word is Dr. Babic, I would turn around and I wouldn't stand up because I didn't. I'm a graduate engineer. I am proud of my calling at Belgrade University, at the Faculty of Engineering of Belgrade University, but the problem is when someone calls you Professor, and you are not, and we have now learned from the recognition of Mr Pavicevic and you get up and accept it. Mr. Becic, at least it looks like plagiarism to me, to plagiarize something that has not been done, to claim a title that is not his and is heard all months and days in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If Mr. Pavicevic were responsible and you had called him with - Professor Pavicevic, he probably wouldn't have gotten out of place, he would have looked at the hall that Professor Pavicevic was in the House of the National Assembly. There's no such thing, Mr. Becic. Then a man gets up, spends his time, talks, calls out for it, says that the professor's degree and calling is being obtained by the chairman, or the speaker of parliament, seeing, that sort of thing. That's terrible, Mr. Becic. As far as I'm talking here, I'd probably get an academic call by now, using the same models as Mr. Pavicevic. Here, please address me as an academic, Granny. But I'm not that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13454	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13455	I'm not going to get up on something like that, like Mr. Dr. Pavicevic is getting up to call the professor, and it's not. It's very bad that he calls out for something he didn't and didn't deserve. When he deserves it, I'll be the first to congratulate him.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13456	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Fortunately, academic titles don't get that way. I would ask you to state if you would like the assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (No) I am even more confused, since I was even warned a while ago, about a month ago, by the students of Mr Pavicevic on the internet, why don't I use the term "professor" Pavicevic, when I only called Dr Pavicevic. I read it myself on the Internet, and then I made sure that I used the title "professors", because I was convinced that the students of the Faculty of Political Sciences knew that they were using calls. Here you go, Dr. Pavicevic. Sign up, please. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the site: The system is not running. I'll have to delete the list, so reapply. We had to wait for Dr Vladimira Pavicevic to reset the system to remove the professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becicu, the Honorable Mr. Secretary Loncar, the respected guest from the ministry, has been injured, I think, by a member of our 112s Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Allow me, please, to explain why I believe that a certain violation of the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly has been done here. Of course, once again, I thank Mr. Babic, dear Mr. Becic, which is what I mentioned more than five times in this speech, and I would therefore have the right to have the regular course of the session. In other words, I'm not talking about violations of the Rules of Procedure. For the sake of precision and truth, which I think should be the characteristics of our joint work in an institution that represents the sanctuary of political life in Serbia, which is the National Assembly of our country, gentlemen, I must add one more thing. Not only have I always, wherever I should have been, applied in such a way that it implies that exactly what I am is being read, but I have insisted here that both the chairman and president of the assembly always use the information that is correct. I even suggested that when you name my name, when you give me the right to say, you don't even read my title or my title, gentlemen. To me, "docent," that "doctor," when you show up here on this screen, it doesn't mean here. It means my name to me, gentlemen. My proposal, dear Mr. Becic, is that you always say in the future – the word has Vladimir "Pavicevic", as Mr. Babic would say, or "Pavicevic", as Mr. Laketic would say, or "Pavicevic", as he would say, for example. Mr. Vuceta Toskovic, gentlemen of honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13458	Mr. Vladimir Pavicevic, I also have a home education and you cannot prevent me from using your title and with respect I will always call you Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a professor, I'm sorry, MP Dr. Darko Laketic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13459	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I didn't report myself a professor. First that correction. I'm Dr. Darko Laketic, although I'm a doctor of medical science. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 107th and 108th. First of all, you are obliged to take care of the order at the National Assembly session, and I believe that I was led astray because I called my spokeswoman "Professor Pavicevic" under the impression of your calling. So I think it's okay for you, as well as Mr. Pavicevic, to apologize for that. On the other hand, I understand that the wording was good, but according to his age, I really didn't doubt his calling, and for those reasons, I think I've been led astray again. I insist that, as far as that goes, you plead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13460	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. I didn't use the professor's title for you, but it was Professor Slavica Djukić Dejanovic in turn, so I wanted to give her my word before I could see that you reported to the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by the People's Messenger Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister of the Government, in resignation, as I understand... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13462	This is what we end up with, Dr Pavicevic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13463	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Professor in resignation, we have just learned that you have resigned to this title, but I am advertising Article 103 106, 107, 108, and in particular Article 109. He says: "If he interrupts the speaker in the exhibition or throws away, or he interferes with the speaker or otherwise threatens freedom of speech. Whoever here wanted to speak, when we look at this side, the professor in the resignation of Pavicevic, stands also with his waving, standing, distracting speakers who are on this side astounded and surprised that one lecturer allowed himself to be referred to as "professor". It has its own consequences. He was an authority to me as a professor, while you called him that, Mr. Chairman. I didn't consider him a lecturer. I thought he was a professor. I voted in favour of the amendments several times just because they were proposed by "professor". That's how you called him. This has implications and I ask to verify that this is ethically responsible, academically congratulating how many times has this been used, how many times has this error occurred, how has someone who is a lecturer been referred to as "professor"? How come you don't call me "professor"? That's where someone had to introduce themselves. Maybe it's a fake representation. It's not ethically responsible. There's something else that needs to be checked out. You can't make a new car out of the used parts, so I'm asking, ethically responsible, to see if any used politicians can be made a new party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13464	Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Dusan Milisavljevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13465	The Honorable Chairman, it doesn't matter what you call who you call, it's important to mention his name and name. I am advocating Article 106, and I appeal to you as chairman to return to the agenda, because today we are discussing two important laws in the health sector. I've always struggled to keep health from being the subject of political bickering and outwitting. I urge us to return to the agenda, work with the amendments and send a picture to the citizens to take care of the health sector. It is my pledge to talk about the agenda here, and it is certainly an improvement in the quality of health care, and what we all stand for here in the O.R. and slowly to return to the health sector, not politics, and to return to the sector of decision-making on amendments, not titles and other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13466	Thank you, Mr. Milisavlovich. I can't break the Rules of Procedure if I give the MPs a word based on the wording of the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13467	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If we go back to the amendment, I think the amendment promoter, through his discussion and through the proposal of this amendment, brings again, especially with his discussion, the insurance company, i.e. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia. With your discussion, you are not defending insurance rights as you say and how you control the spending, but you are defending the autonomy of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. From all the discussion and all your defenses, it only comes out that as much as possible, that is to leave the RFZO a complete autonomous institution that will take the money and fully autonomously dispose of it without any control and without the possibility of affecting how that money will be spent. Another thing is that RFZO is very often acting as a complete regulator of the health system of the Republic of Serbia. We were in a situation where we had to ask the Republic Fund for permission to fill our jobs, to get some new funds, so, absolutely, the Ministry had no option, but it was all just the Fund's decision. So now with this law and this change, that is, this law that we are now passing, we are still introducing order into this system, introducing one regulatory factor such as the Ministry of Health, which in any case works in the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not one party that is in power and never will be, so let's not defend the autonomy of the RFO in this way. Let us allow the Ministry to have a regulatory function, it must have an impact on the work of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, in no case can it be the RFZO, an autonomous institution, which will decide everything without any control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13468	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Gordana Zoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13469	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, has already been here for two-and-a-half hours to discuss two similar amendments. I suppose our citizens from all this discussion can hardly draw conclusions about what is good for them and what is not good and whether their rights are compromised. It is the following - the proposed amendment should certainly not be accepted because the government has proposed to amend the Health Insurance Act where it is planned to reduce the number of members of the RFZ Management Board from 21 to seven, which is a significant savings in the situation where the money does not exist, it is important that every dinar is saved wherever it can be saved. This move saves significant resources. What is more important, which is why the proposed amendment, and the previous one should not be accepted, is to propose a different composition of the board of directors. What the government has proposed is that four members of the board of directors of the seven proposed ministry, i.e. the minister, have significance because citizens blame the government for anything wrong with the health system. If the government has no influence on the functioning of the Health Insurance Fund, how can it implement health policy? That's impossible. Therefore, the Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of the government's proposal and give the government the opportunity to influence the functioning of the Fund, because in a situation where an average of 211 euros per annum is allocated to an annual new one, if I have heard well, it is a very small sum and with this sum it cannot provide adequate health care for our citizens. So, you have to take care of every dinar to get out of the raised funds maximum. That is why the Serbian Progressive Party will support the government's proposal and will not support the proposed amendments that would change the composition of the board members compared to the government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13470	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Gordana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13471	I would like to express my regret at the beginning of this presentation and this discussion under the amendment for the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Articles 105, 106, 107 and 108. As a psychiatrist, I often feel like I'm in an office here, not in this high house. Otherwise, as regards this amendment, a fellow member of the opposition is to Article 1. The bill amending the Health Insurance Act, I find it unacceptable for a number of reasons. First of all, it clearly states that this amendment is unacceptable because the proposed amendment is contrary to the provisions of Article 219. Health insurance laws. I wouldn't talk about other reasons, and I wouldn't repeat myself, because it's clear. On this occasion, I am trying to understand my fellow opposition that they are struggling so much to make any changes in these amendments, and they want to show us their desire to make some changes in health insurance, but I don't understand when they were in the last 10, 15 years in the past opportunity to change and the ministers from this portfolio, why they supported them. Therefore, I call on my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party not to accept this amendment without accepting the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13472	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13473	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, this amendment, when it comes to the Supervisory Committee to clarify some colleagues, we are not asking to eliminate the government's influence, because we are asking to eliminate the government's influence on the board of directors and supervisors, we would not propose an amendment in this form but would already vote that there are no members of the Government on a proposal from the Minister responsible for health affairs. We wanted to reduce the influence of the Government's representatives in the Republic Health Insurance Fund and in the Supervisory Committee of the Republic Fund, because, again, I repeat, it's a disenfranchisement of the Fund. Why did we propose to include one representative and the Supervisory Board of the Association of Persons with Disabilities, because you also said in the light of the draft law of the Minister that it is necessary to maintain the participation of the most numerous categories. I remind you that the representative, or person with disabilities in Serbia, has over 550,000. I repeat by who knows which time, in the Republic Health Insurance Fund is not only the money of political parties representatives, there is money from all citizens of Serbia and we believe that all Serbian citizens through their representatives should have an impact on the availability of money from that fund, and this process puts the Fund into operation exclusively political parties and exclusively day-to-day policy developments. I remind you once again that, as is the role of Parliament to oversee the work of the Minister, so is the role of the Supervisory Board to oversee the financial operations of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. I can ask one question - who guarantees us that such a situation will not happen, that when there will be the next government reconstruction in January that is announced, that the ministers may not change you, along with you and those members of the Management and Supervisory Board that you have proposed, and if the Republic Fund does not work properly, then the next government that is there will not follow the hands of what you have done, what those members of the Management and Supervisory Board have done that you have proposed. I am talking about the need to introduce the principle of personal responsibility, not political similarities. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13474	I thank Miss Jovanovic. The word is Dr. Slobodan Gvozdenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13475	You can see for yourself that the government has rejected this amendment for the same reasons as before. It has really become a custom now, I think, to write these amendments like when children in fifth grade write on the theme “First Day of Spring” or “My Mom”. Simply, the defence of the RFO is no longer possible as a liquid of real socialism. I also expected perhaps that some amendment would arise for the RFO Management and Supervisory Board or the Republic Health Insurance Fund to enter and self-government stakeholders and a staff of workers and working councils. So the government has a clear concept and a clear view that Serbia should go further. Serbia has stepped deeply into changes or reforms, whatever they call them. It just can't stop it anymore. Therefore, the amendment, as before, is unacceptable. To say that the government should not have an impact on the money they have, i.e. what money the citizens of Serbia, and these same citizens are the same government and they chose really exist comically. But it's not a problem that it's comical, it's a problem that RFO can't be alienated from government control and from the competent ministry, because it's simply a number of abuses from 2000 to here after the five-octobaric revolution and the arrival of these so-called. Reformers, revolutionaries to power have discovered a number of malfeasances. Let's just think of an affair with vaccines, and just like that one thing must be interrupted -- money must be put under control and any reduction of government influence, chosen by the vast majority of citizens, who in fact received plebisitarian support in previous elections, represents an ordinary political demagogue. So I suggest that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13476	Thank you. The word has been given by the MP Dr Dusan Milisavljevic, following the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13477	The Honorable Chairman, you violated article 107 and again my attempt to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13478	I'm sorry, a breach of the Rules of Procedure or an amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13479	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Article 107. I don't need to read because you know very well that the use of offensive expressions is not allowed in this room. I am reporting because when a colleague explained the amendment, a colleague is a young Member of Parliament and whoever the MP is should not be characterised negatively by his attempt to contribute to the improvement of any amendment or law. So the qualification of colleagues who said very much offended the proposed amendment. I'm not a bearer of this amendment, but in desire...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13480	I'm sorry. Please, because I didn't hear what you're saying right now. There's a little noise in the O.R. Sometimes I don't hear anything like the chairman. I really don't know what you're talking about. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13481	... The stenographic notes are here. Insultingly, the speaker addressed writing the proposed amendment, and I do not want to use those words. So, I respect every colleague and I want to discuss it in that tone, especially when the health laws are.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13482	It's okay. I'll take a look at the stenographic notes. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day? (No) National MPs Dr Blagoja Bradic, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Branko Karavidic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13483	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, distinguished professors, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, colleagues and fellow doctors, my dear citizens of Serbia, my dear Nishlia, here, I will try in these four minutes, five, how much more time I have available to sum up what we have spoken through this amendment, which is the same as the amendment one, and which is the basic premise that the Republic Health Insurance Fund remains the Fund, and all the funds have a rule of how they are founded and how they are managed. That's what we stand for together for Serbia, and that's what we advocate for both the SPS and that's what we stand for from our coalition party Green Serbia. ( National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, from the post: From the SPS? What? No, I don't. ‘P’ not ‘N’. ( National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, from the post: SPS? That's right. Let's not disabling this story. I think the subject is very serious. What the congregation majority will vote today, i.e. It is quite evident that the decisions taken so far by citizens who have given funding to the Republic Health Insurance Fund will no longer be on their side, but will decide, as my opposition colleagues have said, daily policy i.e. On a proposal from the Ministry of Health, we will have four representatives compared to the three representatives of those categories represented in the Fund on the basis of the percentage representation in the payment of that contribution to health. This, respected citizens, is quite legitimately the right of the congregation's majority, but I fear that this will not make any better in Serbian health because what has been decided so far, despite the board of directors who were presented as presented, are percentages, decisions have been made that I do not, as far as I can see, go to the benefit of Serbian health, but have gone in the package as a political decision. I will remind you that beyond the decision of the Republic Fund which is now changing and the Supervisory Board, a decision has been made to transfer 2% of contributions from the health position to the pension position, thereby reducing the health budget by 30 billion dinars or 300 million euros annually. At the same time, we have a problem with specializations, we have a problem with participations. We have a problem with insufficient personnel. We have a lot of problems in Serbia. What's interesting is that in this room when you have to take money from health insurance then there's money, and when you have to invest something, and when you have to approve specializations in health care institutions about the cost of the state, there's no money. I don't think we're going to help Serbian healthcare with this. Whoever's right, we'll see very fast on the RS final account, the RS budget. We'll see about the adoption of the 2015 budget. We'll talk about it again, and once again, I insist that we leave the Fund as it is. to be in the hands of those who give money to the Republic Fund. Should members be added to help professionally? Yes, that's what the amendments give, but the essence of the Fund is that those who give money to it and manage it. With this, dear colleagues, we take it right away from them. Please think again in voting day and accept my proposal with the essence that citizens have the right to decide on how to spend the money they give. With all due respect to the Ministry of Health and their efforts to make health care in Serbia better quality. One is health policy, and one is to decide on money and how to spend money. These are two different things and instead of decentralised the way we decide, to bring it closer to the citizens, we what is centralized now, and he is now centralized, we make it even more centralised by abolishing the decision of the Fund's board of directors, i.e. Those who make up the budget of that Fund, who fill it and put it just to be one drop of the Ice Coast of the Ministry. I repeat, you have the right to make that decision. I don't think that decision is in favour of the citizens of Serbia. It is not for the benefit of Serbian health care, so I ask you to reconsider and accept our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13484	Thank you, Mr. Bradic. The word is Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13485	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, of course I am against this amendment, another in a series that wants to keep the status quo in this area. Why am I against it? Just to remind an esteemed colleague that for the past 12 years, how many of his ruling majority held health care in their hands, the incredible 27 billion euros were spent. It's a huge amount of money that went towards patients, and it ended up somewhere along the way. The essence of these initial, first amendments to this law and these changes in the functioning and supervision of the Fund's work is precisely to restore control of the work of the Fund, to regain control of the spending of money and to enable that money that has been raised by the taxpayers of this country to direct to patients, doctors, sisters and employees who care about the health of our people. What's tragic is that some people don't realize what's been going on in the past 12 years in the health care system. I'm going to tell you one half anecdote, a half sad thing, that for 20 years working in the office, 2010, in 2011, I started changing my patient history system, because it turns out that from the therapy I prescribe to patients very often, they don't get to buy, buy or get to the medications they need, so instead of asking the first question, did you use the prescribed therapy? I was surprised when they told me they only used a small fraction of what they could buy, which was the cheapest. It started in 2010, and in 2011, they started looking for and ordering me to write them cheaper medications that they could afford. These are the direct consequences of your 12 years of management of both the state and the Health Fund and the health system. That's why this is just the beginning of what needs to bring responsible people to power, responsible people to the RFZO supervisory committees, responsible people to boards, and responsible people are already in government. The Serbian Progressive Party will support this amendment to the law, and I am sure everyone will be better off in this country, especially those who need it most, the sick people in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13486	Thank you, Mr. Radojevic. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13487	As an authorised representative. When the debate says that the former regime has done a lot of damage in the health sector over the past 12 years, from 2000 to 2012, I would ask you to try to beat it all together and turn to what we're going to do next, because if I told you, I've been working at a clinic for 21 years, if I remember what we had in hospitals from the 1990s to 2000, if we hadn't had antibiotics, we didn't have drugs, we had to give Chinese and Indian antibiotics to our citizens, that all European houses had escaped from Serbia, that we were getting paid 2.5 stamps, so what are we going to talk about then? For the first time in my life, I'm saying it with a wish, the chairman, to return to these reform laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13488	Please speak in the spirit of this amendment, which has been submitted to Article 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13489	He is the chairman, but as chairman, you must have the same arches to all MPs. You can't let the previous speaker say that someone destroyed the 12-year system, and I'm telling you that we inherited the disaster system, where both the SRS and the SPS were. Then we go back to history all the time, and we're not going forward at all. My wish is to move forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13490	Mr. Milisavic, please. I'm just repeating what you're saying. Secondly, I don't know what the SRS has to do with it. She's in the coalition with you now. Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13491	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13492	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dr Blagoje Bradic, you have 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13493	Thank you. I just want one more time, I won't replicate, there's no need, I really don't see the basis to say something, I don't see the essence of what you said, with all due respect, I'd just ask my colleagues to think about it one more time. The amendments I submitted to you were made in collaboration with the Institute of Public Health, behind this is a profession, not all of this is in my mind. The people whose job this is, they said what defects are and how they need to be corrected. Once again, I would like to thank the Institute of Public Health from Nis and Dr Dragan Nikolic, who has worked hard to make these amendments, so that Serbian citizens know that there is a different way of thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13494	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Dejan Nectarijević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13495	Dear colleagues, ministers, chairman, the essence is constantly avoided here. The point is that the RFO or the Republic Fund has not worked well so far, even in this form of boards of directors. This is where the boards of directors, 21 members, all representatives of staff, pensioners, farmers, and I would respect that if they really decided something in the Republic Fund by now. It is evident that a former colleague worked at the Fund and that he would have left the whole situation as it had been, and then it was not good until now. Something has to change. I'd like you as an opposition to give us constructive suggestions on whether we're doing something wrong by transferring control, I wouldn't even call it responsibility, control over government. Here, in all these details we've been listening to so far, there's a lack of control of budget spending. So far, he's done the RFO the way he imagined it. I think this is just the beginning, along with this electronic networking, the beginning of how control of overall health needs to be established, because a lot of resources are being spent non-transparently and not subject to control. I would therefore reject this amendment and would also support future government proposals, i.e. the Ministry, to establish control. Whether it was liked or not now by someone who was slowly subject to centralization, it is obvious that it must be so in order to get a titlemaker who is responsible for controlling the funds themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13496	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13497	In short, since counterpart Bradic does not see the essence of the story, and the essence of the story is difficult to see from the RFZO cabinet, there are thick walls, there is very separate from the patients. The essence is seen in the office, the essence is seen in a patient who needs help and who you must first send from an institution to the so-called. The fund to verify his instructions, and the Fund doesn't work on Saturdays and Sundays, and the Fund doesn't work this afternoon, the Fund doesn't have time for emergency patients, and then it's returned five times to verify the unfortunate instruction to get to someone called the therapeutic level of protection. In doing so, you have a signature, a seal, a facsimile of a doctor who stands and corresponds to his name, last name, diagnosis and search for the mentioned service at a higher level. Instead, you have invented dozens of commissions that are very often out of the profession and are not at all in a story that happens on a particular patient and they determine whether or not the patient will be provided a service. To see the essence, you have to enter the office, you have to enter the O.R., or the patient's room, to go through with the patients, and to continue the treatments that started the day before, when your sister tells you – there is no medicine doctor, and then you first turn to your sister on the third or fourth day, and ask – what's there to do with the medications, so you can continue these treatments. That's what you've done for the last 12 years with this kind of health care system and this functioning of the RFO. That's why it changes, which is why this is the beginning of a change that needs to enable a comprehensive reform of the health system and to bring money to the doctor, to the nurses, and especially to patients.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13498	Thank you, Mr. Radojevic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Replica, it's not in a negative context, but please briefly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13499	So none of the directors are sitting behind the thick walls of the Republic Fund, not fat, giter peck is not a fat colleague. In order to know how to function, you must read the Statute of the Fund and the normative act. So, the Fund's statute is healing to read and you need to know that. The commissions you're talking about, they form a profession, not a Fund. The profession prescribes standards of conduct or good practice guides, however, and the minister advocates it and I absolutely support it. You must know how to treat yourself, but it's not a topic. Here's the subject of who will manage, whether those who have formed the Fund or will do it politics, that's the topic. I'll bet if it's the Fund, it's got to be so conceived that it's managed by those who give money. You say politics. It's okay, it's legitimate, but it's not a fund anymore. It's not a fund. That means you have the right to transfer all money to the budget, and that's how people function in the world, but you have to say you want absolute political control over the funds. And the fund is made up of a board of directors, no matter what number of members, make up those who are full of money and they decide how they will be used for treatment. They don't heal. They pay for that money treatment that the ministry and you as doctors devise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13500	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13501	The Honorable Chairman, a respected colleague and ministers, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, is a system of health and we are all trying to raise him. So it's not five or six years, as you say, a colleague, the health care system has been collapsing for more than 20 years. There are numerous reasons for this collapse -- sanctions, bombing, isolation of Serbia and the Serbian economy, but what is most important is to say -- because of one crime and corruption that exists in the sphere and in health, that is something many ministers have said, but did not go to the end. I'm telling you, big funds have come in. Here, I will agree with you, since 2000, there have been large donations, both the EU and the World Bank and individual donations from European countries and European health ministries, to improve the health sector, which was completely destroyed from 1990 to 2000. It was a much worse situation then than it is now. But what's the question, that's the corruption that happened. It's not just a solution to say -- it's corruption, it's a former regime. Everyone has to have a name and a last name. So I'm in favour of having a name and a last name and who did such things to be processed. What is more important is that the money that was given to Serbian citizens paid off those loans, that they return to the citizens and that we finally have the names of people who have abused their position, who have brought this health care into this position. And today, you're doing different machinations. And today, there's corruption that eats up our society, especially in the health sector. As far as health care is concerned, we should not argue and return to the 90s or 2000s periods, but rather see that we sanction individuals who have made numerous failures and try together, and authorities and oppositions, that this health care that is bad, we all see it, and doctors and patients, to fix it and to help some good suggestions, good actions, help to keep our health going. I would ask you not to go back to the question of who it is and what it is, but to leave it all to law enforcement authorities, because I am also asking questions – there are large indications and doubts that the many loans used for the reconstruction of clinical centres did not go to the right places, that the money that the citizens of Serbia are returning, that some companies have profited and that we have to say that there is corruption. There's also corruption in a number of tenders that have been made in the last 15 years, there's a number of corruption when we've been getting software for this information technology that the hospitals have done, but that's what the name and last name have to say. We can't run away to the floscule anymore – well, it's a former regime. I am the People's MP of the Democratic Party. When I became an MP for the DS, for three years I was on the Committee on Industry. I don't want to accept any responsibility for me to wear that someone was doing something and telling me – well, you're all the same. We're not all the same, believe me. That's why I'm saying-- I'm looking for the name and name of the individuals who did it. I support the minister if he goes into this one fight with health corruption, which is very serious, both in pharmaceutical circles and in circles that supply medically large and expensive equipment. This is a serious issue and should be unique, as far as parliament is concerned, that it has the support to insist on fighting corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13502	Thank you, Mr. Milisavlovich. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Dejan Nectarijević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13503	My fellow Milosavlevich, you surprise me. Just move over here to our side. I welcome what you have said, but what does this sentence mean – unintended spending of budget funds? And who's responsible for that sentence in health care? A large number of hospitals are in big trouble precisely because of the accidental spending of budgets that the ministry has so far been unable to control, or controlled by the RFO, and that's what anyone wanted to do. In this whole story, there needs to be an Institute of Public Health, that a little better everyone does their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13504	Doctor, I'm asking you to just come a little closer to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13505	I welcome the Minister's proposal and we will continue to support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13506	Dr. Bradic, you don't have a chance to replicate. The word is from the MP Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13507	The Honorable Chairman, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, only briefly said this about the deliberate and non-intentional spending of money. The previous system was a real master to make a purpose for something that is essentially not a purpose that is good. Let me give you an example. Seven or eight years ago, the maids who worked in the department were suspended, so it's being transferred to the agencies that are going to hire the maids to save. Since you have infectious wards, which I'm working on, you hire maids who work on some contract, who can't wait to...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13508	Mr. Radojevic, please, we are now talking about an amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13509	I'm just making an example of how unintentional money is being spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13510	I know, but you need to get close to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13511	So that engagement was about to save. However, damage has also been done to people who were employed, who worked for a decent salary in health institutions, and patients and doctors, because these people no longer knew the elemental postulates of hygiene, asepsis and antiseptics, just watched them escape from that department to someone easier. Therefore, for significantly lower money through agencies they did significantly worse work, which is another example of non-purpose spending, i.e. dedicated spending, under quotes, the money of all taxpayers, of course, under the control of the Republic Health Insurance Fund in that previous composition and the previous concept.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13512	Thank you, Mr. Radojevich. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th point – Proposal for a Law on Health Documentation and Evidences in Health Area You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Milan Petrovic and Borislav Stefanovic, as well as the Committee on Health and Family. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Mr Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Petrovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Violet Lutovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13513	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable fellow MPs, the amendment to Article 13 to point 12 after point 11), where it is said that there is a need for sister documentation, in fact, I do not think that such an amendment should be accepted for two reasons. The first reason is that it is clear in the law that in all paragraphs, from the first paragraph to the eleventh, data on the patient is actually listed, and sister records are not patient information. I can certainly understand the proposal on one hand, because in different countries there is actually the keeping of sister documentation, but such a bill is actually one concise bill, absolutely clear, including the work of a team doctor, specialist doctor, nurses and absolutely all the data is available to all members of the team, so that it does not recognise the possibility of having sister documentation at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13514	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13515	Thank you. I don't think this should be accepted for the simple reason that we have otherwise agreed in the principle of discussion that the law also introduces such changes that will definitely determine what is going on, and what is not going on in the documentation that needs to be kept and recorded, and that it needs operatives on the ground, doctors, nurses and other staff, to facilitate work. So, yes, and indeed in accordance with the promotion principle, we reduce the paperwork from which head hair doctors are raised and to the sisters who wrote letters. Why is that wrong on the other side? Because a lot of hospitals, secondary, therapeutic, introduced that sisterly letter. Imagine now, the sister writes when she translates from, say, shock to a lower level of intensive care, a guide on how she's going to nurse him there, and then or vice versa if she goes from lower to higher, what on the lower level is going to write, what she's going to do there or what she's doing. Now it goes into internal quality control, and then internal quality control turns out, that so many and so many percent of the nurses didn't do a sister's letter, or it wasn't valid, so there's no expert college, so there's a circus, a Viciosus, continuous paperwork accompanying documents, which in happier times even existed, the system has functioned incessantly, much, very long ago, not now in the last 10 years. So every attempt to reduce unnecessary paperwork, to include the degree of education and education of our healthcare professionals, that they are qualified to know what to do, not to re-write and re-send to someone else, and create continuous communication. The Serbian Progressive Party will remain at a position wherever there can be a cutting of the rules of such a species, so the paperwork says it will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13516	Thank you, Dr. Pocurica. The word has Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13517	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, I would also suggest that this amendment be not accepted for the following reasons. Each healthcare professional in the case of medical records, therefore, shall record the documents of the patient and his work in a common list. What's an advantage and what's, to say, the advantage of this way of keeping records is that the joint documentation is problematicly oriented. Practically, the patient’s health problem is located in the center of the system itself, and this allows all data, all information on the patient and his health problem, to be found in one place, to be available to all members of the team. What is also very important is to point out that it is necessary that this documentation is not too extensive. It is also necessary not to be immeasurable, with unnecessary details etc. Also, sisterly documentation can be conducted especially in the so-called so-called “sisterly ” documentation. source-oriented documentation management systems. In this case, all healthcare professionals have their lists, but it is noted that this way of joint documenting is better and more transparent and in any case better for the patient than this original one, therefore I support the absolute proposal of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13518	Thank you, Dr. President. Elbow. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragana Marisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13519	I find this amendment unacceptable because it clearly states that the amendment to Article 15 is not accepted because of the provisions of Article 98. Health care law, and Article 146. The Health Insurance Act is prescribed who can be chosen by a doctor. I don't understand so much of my colleague, Milisavljevic, when they just destroyed dental services during the 2006 rule, and now they're so committed to returning dentists, general dentists, to elected doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13520	Thank you, Dr. Barisic. Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, you have no ability to address another MP. Here you go, Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13521	Dear Chairman, thank you so much for your timely reaction, for warning your colleague. I'm not going to use any similar words, I just want to show by one example that in a peaceful, tolerated atmosphere we can end up discussing these important laws. Who destroyed, why did he destroy, believe me, everything is known in this Serbia, don't make any statements so casually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13522	Here's Dr Dragan Barisic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13523	I would like to point out once again that this amendment is unacceptable and clearly standing, but Serbian citizens should know that the opposition's parliamentary benches are down to only three MPs. So much for their efforts and how much they want better for this Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13524	Doctor Barisic, the ruling majority's parliamentary benches are not exactly full. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Petrovic and Borislava Stefanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13525	The proposed amendment is not acceptable. We all know by the Health Protection Act, article 99, among other things, I quote – that the chosen doctor is conducting a complete medical documentation on the patient’s health condition. As far as this amendment is concerned, where sister records are mentioned, sister's history, we still don't have a sisterhood law in our country. I assume that the amendments were governed by laws in Croatia or in other EU countries. We are only on the verge of reorganising the health system and the new Health Protection Act, and I hope that this will be a matter that will be resolved in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13526	The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13527	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, ministry members, co-workers and colleagues, I also believe that this amendment should be rejected by the MPs Petric and Stefanovic. Article 17 adds a new position and reads – sister's file contains a sister's history with a diagnosis of the health care plan and sister's release letter. I think it's quite correct that the government's explanation, or ministry, that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the data in the basic medical history and diagnosis file is presented by the competent doctor, or the specialist doctor. So, a perfectly correct explanation and I think this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13528	Professor Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 17th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13529	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Professor Vekic, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, entered the debate on the second law, on the Law on Health Documentation, one law in one place, which after many years covers the procedure of medical documentation. Very well systematically he regulates it. As MPs of the opposition, I want to say that this law is very good. I want to say what you may have known, perhaps you didn't know, the resolution minister and the republican government have accepted the four amendments that I have made. I would like to send a message to other ministries and other MPs, to try to work in a peaceful atmosphere and to work well on purpose in the making of the law, and with the condition that we give Serbian citizens a better life. As Minister Loncar was so brave that he accepted four amendments, I want to say publicly that I thank him for one collegiate thinking, because health care should not have those policies but should have the collegiation to try to make this health care that colleagues of the authorities say was destroyed for 12 years, which the opposition colleagues say was destroyed for 22 years, to put it a little bit aside and see how we can all put together this health care that is bad, which is a lot of temples, every day we see to fix it, to fix it together. As far as I'm concerned, I'm always at the disposal of constructive examples, suggestions, criticisms, to try to draw attention to some things that haven't come well in health care. But today is an example of how the authorities and the opposition can work in the interest of the people, without that classical policy that every day, I, as a professor of medical school in Nis, listen here. It's a lot of times hard for me, you see me a lot of times when I get out of the O.R. because I'm sick of day-to-day bickering, out-of-work, and our country's getting worse and worse. So this is one good example, I thank you, these were amendments that I tried to fix the bill. The law is good, and for this law, the DS parliamentary group in voting day will vote. I am pleased to say - that we will continue to make these consulting proposals in order to improve some of the laws we expect, which will finally start with health reform, reform of health care reform, health insurance which, unfortunately, for 20 and a few years, have been promised, and have not been implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13530	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. The government and the Committee on Health and Family have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Mr Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Committee on Health and Family have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. The government and the Committee on Health and Family have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 25, was submitted by the Committee on Health and Family. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a minister, please make your statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13531	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13532	Thank you. I find the minister accepted, the government's representative accepted the amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to article 33, was submitted by the Committee on Health and Family. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a minister, please make your statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13533	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-11-07-0.u13534	Thank you. I find that a representative of the government has accepted the amendment, which has been submitted by the Committee on Health and Family. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Continuation is tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
