ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u251	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the first session of the regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 158 MPs. I remind you, Article 168 is Section 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are scheduled to put forward proposals for selection, appointment and resolution during the session of the National Assembly on the agenda provided that most of the total number of MPs attend. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 160 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding within the meaning of the stated provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next MPs, or one MP, Miroljub Stankovic. Following the urgent procedure, we received, as I said, the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group on 24 April 2014, with a proposal to join the agenda of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2014. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 165 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted— 15 MPs, out of a total of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We continue our work and move on to a unique search on the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE MEMBER STATES' DECISION AND REPLY OF THE MEMBER STATES' COMMITTEE (No) Do any of the ambassador groups want a word? (No) The length of the debate is in line with the Rules of Procedure. I am concluding a single search, since no one has even reported and the motion for a decision is put to the vote, in the voting day that we will set after a single debate on the next agenda points. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – PROPOSE OF THE MINISTRATIVES You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Zoran Zivković, Dr Vladimir Pavićevic, Gordana Komić, Snezana Malović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanović-Korac, Ivan Karić, Aleksandar Senić, Marko Đurišić, dr. Gordana Zorić, Natasa Vučković, Marijan Rističar, Irena Aleksić, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagić, Dejan Andrejević, Andrijana Anastasov, Mirjana Andrić, Dragan Bojanić, Zoran Babić, Brana Blažić, Igor Bević, Dr. Dragan Barišić, Nebojša Berić, Boban Birmančević, Ljiljana Berović, Zoran Bojanić, Zarko Govdnović, Dr. Slobodan Gvozdnović, Nezidar Vučetić, Vladica Vukmirović, Sonja Vladjan Vlahović, Bratimir Vasjić, Mirja Gović, Dr. Slobodan Gvozdenović, Ninović, Milov Drovan Drovan Drec, Vladov Drov Drovan Drec, Vladović, Vladjan Drović, Vladović, Vladić, Vladić, Vladić Vc, Vladić, Vlaković, Vladić, Vladić, Vladić Vktović, Vladić, Vladimir Žktović, Vladimir Vuković, Vladimir, Vladimir Žktić, Ivan Žktić, Ivan Žukić, Ivan Žktić, Ivan Žktić, Ivan Žktić, Žktić, Žktić, Žktić, Žktić, Žktić, Žktić, Žk, Žk, Žk, Žk, Žk, Žk, Žktić, Žktić, Žik, Žktić, Ivan, Žk, Žk, Žktić, Žktić, Žk, Žktić, Žktić, Žktić, Žk, Žk, Žktić, Žktić, Žktić, Žktić, Žktić, Žk, Žktić, Žk, Žktić, Žk, Žk, Žk, Žktić, Žktić, Žktić, Žktić, Žktić, Žktić, You've received a report from the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President, as we announced two days ago, the two of us, Zoran Zivkovic and I, have submitted 38 amendments to this bill and, as is appropriate, we have set out in order, from Article 1. We have analysed all these members of the proposal for a law on ministries from three aspects – legal, political and linguistic. Our amendment to Article 1 concerns this language aspect, primarily stylish. Article 1(2) provides that special organisations may be educated and their work may also be established by special law. We believe that the Serbian language is more suitable for the following formulation: special organisations can be educated and their workaround can be established by a special law. Let me explain, instead of the infinitative that stands here, which is one incomplete modal verb with additions, we believe that the formulation should change, since this is more appropriate in Serbian. I would like to add that it wasn't just the two of us who worked on these amendments, but it was helped by two lawyers, Professor Vesna Rakić Vednelic and Ljiljana Shantic Benac and a professor of Serbian language and literature, who is also a member of the New Party, Tanja Roganovic. So we believe that this proposal does not go into the essence of the content of this here, but is about adapting to what the rules and customs of the Serbian language are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u253	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is actually the essence of all these changes that we offer through 30 and some amendments. All day, there's been a debate about whose government is the smallest or whose government will be the smallest, fastest. Not in this direction, but in the direction of real reform of this part of the regulations that define life in our country, our proposal, the proposal of the New Party, which is part of that broad proposal for reforming our political system and state administration, is here defined as the amendment of Article 2 where the ministries are listed and where these 16 ministries, which are in the bill, are changing and we propose that this member be deleted and that the Government be composed of nine ministries by amendments to Article 2. I'll read them again. These are: Ministry of Finance and Economy, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, Ministry of Justice, Human Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Agriculture, environment and spatial planning, Ministry of Infrastructure and Natural Resources, Ministry of Health, Labour and Social Policy and Ministry of Education, Science and Culture. It is quite enough that everything that is the authority of the Serbian government should be covered in these nine ministries, where the government has another member on our proposal, and that is the Prime Minister. You'll agree, it's immediately a smaller government than this one of 16 plus I don't know how much it's going to be without a portfolio. So if it matters what's less, this is less definitely, but certainly there are much more important arguments for this proposal besides that less important argument. First, in this way, all the competencies of the Serbian government are most properly grouped.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u255	Time, two minutes out.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u256	Let me finish. After my time is up, I'll give you detailed explanations in the following reports.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u257	I ask the MPs to stick to the Rules of Procedure. We've just started working, so I'll be tolerated, but in two minutes, you have a Rules of Procedure. Please, let's just stick with it. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u258	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, just to point out that the previous speaker can speak for longer, but he refuses the five minutes he has the right to use for all other amendments. So he can step over, but count him in. As far as this amendment is concerned, I like it at first sight, and I'd like to see such a government with so few ministries. But we have strange behavior and what looks like this: when I'm a government, 20 ministries aren't enough for me, and when I'm an opposition, then 10 ministries wouldn't allow it, and then I'd cut it to nine. It's so roughly this amendment and it's no wonder. It's only when people fall from power that they know what they'd do, but they didn't do it when they held the government, not to say and usurp. Whether the government has 10 members, whether there are 19, whether there are 16 ministries and if there are nine, I've said it before, it's not that important, it's the government's results, that one government finally shows the results and that we finally have a government that will try to build a state. Let me say one more thing about this amendment. After these nine ministries, I would add the tenth – the Ministry of Rare Wine and Winemaking. In that case, I would support it. Now, for me, the point is that we need a government. Finally, we need a government that won't have a state, we need a government that will have a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u259	Right on line, MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u260	Dear President, I am very pleased that one of the MPs from the assembly majority has reported that at least one part of the amendments that we have submitted have been supported. I'd just like three brief interventions. Mr. Risticevic said that while they were in power, they had an idea of 20 ministries, and when they were in opposition, they had an idea of nine or ten. I must remind myself that I have never been in any government, and I am the applicant of this amendment. The second thing, Mr. Zivkovic was in power, was the Prime Minister for a period of less than 12 months and, as far as I was doing my research, and I did a good research, there was then a proposal to change the structure of the government and to focus on what our proposal is today. The third thing, if we ignore for a moment what happened, and this congregation majority here is trying pretty much to ignore something that was in the past, I think that the approach to this proposal is to check for this congregational majority. From this congregational majority come proposals to focus on austerity, on efficiency, and on the first test on which this congregation majority is located is a proposal for the structure of the government. It is the effective and thriftful government that would make up nine ministries and the Prime Minister, i.e. a total of 10 members. So, to conclude, this proposal is a test and a check of these congregation majority, not any one of me that preceded this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u261	The People's MP Marijan Risticevic came forward. Excuse me, but on what grounds? You're not mentioned by name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u262	Unlike the previous speaker I didn't mention, he did mention me at least twice. If anyone thinks they're not, I'm willing to give up this replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u263	Here, you have your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u264	As for my performance, he referred to one of the two promoters. So not only did Mr Pavicevic propose that amendment. I was talking in general about the behavior of people who hold power, so when they lose power they have a completely different opinion and think they should know what they were supposed to do when they were power. Whether someone was 12 months or not or was more, it's not that important, it's whether things moved forward or things got worse. So, during the government's rule that I was talking about, we had such masters of transition that on the one hand those masters of transition, with the help of those who ruled, got everything, and on the other hand the poor girl lost everything. That's what I wanted to talk about about this government, but I said that I would support the proposal if there was that Ministry of Wine and Rare Wine, but I would now add that I would support this amendment and that there is no ministry, but that a new ministry will be inserted which will be called the Ministry of Newsleading. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u265	National MP Zoran Zivkovic does not have the right to reply. You didn't mention it. This was an answer to the replica of the previous MP. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u266	Dear People's MPs, I am pleased that the proposings respect the SNS opinion that it is necessary to cut red tape and have fewer ministries, because we want to behave rationally and reduce costs in our country. For two reasons, however, we cannot accept this proposal, and above all, the minimum per difolt does not mean optimal. I am also sorry that the representatives, i.e. the promoters in this proposal, did not put the Ministry of Youth and Sports at all, because they obviously do not care about young people in our country, to develop a sense of sport, in the sense that youth is not on the street but in the physical halls. I am also sorry that this proposal wants to present centralised, i.e. to put everything in as small a frame as possible so that they can decide and implement decisions, i.e. that they have the power to decide in all segments of our society. Like I said, it's not necessarily optimal. But apparently the nostalgia of certain people who had a chance to show how much they could and what they knew and were even in the role of prime minister and obviously want to relive that role, which means when you suggest something, but we saw that it was in the past and that, in fact, for Serbia, nothing was done for the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, we cannot accept these proposals because we want Serbia in which we do not have centralised. We want the ministries to have personnel who are doing their job responsibly, who will earn their wages at work, and all for the sake of the better lives of our citizens and the prosperity of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u267	The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u268	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I answered by amendment. I wanted to say something. It's the right of every MP to propose amendments, but something else here is disputed for me. Most in this room can say that the government will be more effective because there are fewer ministries. That's not true. If that were the case, then the government would most often have one ministry or maybe none. The effectiveness of the Government and the efficiency of each system are determined on the basis of the degree of implementation of the objectives set. Thus, this also applies to the government, as well as to how successfully it realises the objectives it sets, it will determine its effectiveness. I have no objection to future governments having 50 ministries if their efficiency will be greater and if citizens will live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u269	The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u270	Thank you. With the amendment I propose that point 3a be added to the list of ministries foreseen by the proposal for a law on ministries, which reads: "The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Spatial Planning". The reason is that, according to the proposal, it is now a common ministry of agriculture and environmental protection. That's not a good solution. Sooner or later in this term, with or without one of the government's reconstructions, we will jointly conclude that this is not a good solution, because what agriculture is waving by the nature of things environmental polluter. Environmental protection, on the contrary, concerns conservation, environmental improvement. I'm going to give you a tragic example, recently, of how the pesticides in the fields near Choca were killed by 19 cranes, nine eagles of whitefish the other month. The ministry's plant protection agency reacted on February 28th and banned pesticide traffic, but it is still in use and we still have an obvious tragic situation on the ground. I have no hope that we will already understand today how much it takes for these two ministries to be separated by the nature of their powers and because of the negotiations in the EU and I will not tell you – did I not tell you at the beginning, when we will have amendments to this law and the creation of two ministries during the term of office of this government. It is my duty to propose this amendment on behalf of both the Ministry and the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u271	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u272	Dear President, honourable fellow Members, in principle we had a topic that we opened, which is the issue of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection and what colleagues who proposed this amendment did not want to hear, but came out of the hall, that is, that is, the EU's recommendations to apply all environmental protection measures in agriculture for the sustainability of agriculture, and with such recommendations, it becomes an imperative for our agrarian policy, but also for environmental policies. If that were the case, then the European delegation would not have an entire component of the link between agriculture and environmental protection. On the other hand, your colleagues from the New Party, who are on the list with the New Democratic Party and with the Democratic Party, have in some way tried to show the public that it is very important to protect the environment, have put forward a proposal in this previous amendment, that there are nine ministries, that agriculture and environmental protection should go together. This is an indication that we are in favour of a modern government, a government that will meet European integration, to meet all directives that need to be addressed in one place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u273	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u274	I thank you for reminding me of the recommendations made by the European Commission. The situation, we will see it in the joint work of the Committee on European Integration, still stands in several different ways. When you mention that there are amendments with which you agree, then accept the amendment of colleagues from the New Party, who have proposed a joint ministry. You can't both, and be against my amendment and remind me that there are colleagues who have submitted different amendments. Of course there is, it's our job to endure the amendments, but you can't go against both and agree with each other because they rule out each other. I hope that the co-operation with such a ministry as it is in the Assembly, and in submitting the report of the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection on the Committee on the Environment Protection will benefit and apply recommendations and serious discussion on what the negotiation process means and, of course, serious control and supervision by our members of the Committee on the fact that such a large ministry manages to prevent future tragic situations, such as the poisoning of rare birds, cranes at Choka or belorepan a few months ago, because this is a common damage. It's not about who submits the amendment, it's about having a dialogue, having a common goal, doing good for both agriculture and environmental protection, not conflicting the development of the economy and sustainable development, and understanding that our proposals only go to that end, my amendment in any case.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u275	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u276	I'm sorry, Chairman, no one here has spoken of any conflict. Just to avoid conflicts in any country on any subject, and especially on the topic of agriculture and environmental protection, is exactly this model. That model has Hungary, Austria, Great Britain. Therefore, if this corresponds to high-level EU countries in terms of agriculture and environmental protection, then surely in this direction this government shows that it wants to go. That's what state policy must show at this point, not that we are dealing with certain situations that relate exclusively to inspection surveillance. That's what the inspection authorities do. Governments are created not because of our work of inspection bodies, but because of state policy that has to produce certain results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u277	The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u278	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the honor of speaking for the first time. I come from the environmental protection sector, where I was a ten-year assistant to the circuit secretary for environmental protection. On this occasion, I would like to support Mrs Comic's amendment, precisely because I consider agriculture to be one of the biggest polluters in contrast to being in the same ministry with environmental protection. A series of examples is from practice, especially when it comes to dairy, slaughterhouses, scattered pollution from the surface of the earth. We now had a case of pollution in Užica, or the impact of agriculture on the area of water, or drinking water. That's why I think the environment should be re-separated to a separate ministry. Unfortunately, she showed back-to-back practice that the environment is like the 13th pig, she was constantly under some other ministry. If we remember, in 2000 it was the first independent ministry, and after 2004, it was abolished, entered the science package, and then after that it was part of urbanism, or energy, it is now part of agriculture. I wonder which ministry remains to be added to the protection of the environment. Just to look back, even the legislator of this law, when he explained this ministry, he didn't pay enough attention or even think he didn't even mention it in the context of the environment, but he focused precisely on the area of agriculture. I think we'll all get a lot of pain in the head when chapter 27 comes under consideration and reaching standards in the environment. That is why I repeat, I support on behalf of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u279	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u280	Dear President, dear colleagues, I disagree with my colleague. I consider myself competent enough because I have 20 years of work behind me as a hygienic specialist. As someone who deals with food safety and who deals with absolute environmental protection. It's not agriculture. If the inspection bodies are doing their job quality and how they work, we've seen it in the previous period, then we get what we get, that agriculture is the biggest polluter. Agriculture should be the basis of this country's development, not the largest polluter. There is a problem with the work of the inspection bodies. This is exactly the kind of ministry and the coordination and inspection bodies in the Fitosanitary Inspectorate, and the inspection relating to environmental protection, or environmental inspection, we will pre-warn these events. So what we have on the ground is catastrophic, neither the Karence nor the rules of conduct are respected, when artificial fertilizers are questionable, so we have incidents like this, but I think, when it's protected by water streams, and that also belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture, the protection of land, the protection of air, is inevitably related to food safety, and that's what we have in the future. This country should advocate the development of agriculture, as I said, as branches that will be the basis for both the driver and the motor power for all other industries. Our export chance, not environmental pollution. There must be one coordination and inspection body and people on the ground and the Institute of Public Health and other local self-government, agencies, not the government sector. So, one synergy that will ensure that agriculture is what it is, that it is, and we are one legal, orderly, state-run, modern state that will be an example in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u281	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u282	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, perhaps I could agree with this view about the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but respected colleagues had the opportunity in 2011, they knew what the EU required of us, knew which chapters were being opened, and they did not then vote for a special ministry of environmental protection, but it was called the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. You'll agree, spatial planning has less to do with it than the Ministry of Agriculture, which inside it has various administrations now involved, in a way, in protecting the environment. Unfortunately, in that period, apart from some of these demagogues, we had nothing in the field of environmental protection. The only thing we had was that the ministry paid for pointless environmental campaigns with certain agendas, so that these daily papers would later serve in a pre-election campaign to help someone. I think it's even a little bit dishonest on the other hand, and I'm saying this amendment refuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u283	Mrs. Comic, on what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u284	I'm reporting by the time of the MP's group. What the Ministry of Agriculture has done over the past two years, obviously I did not say enough that I commended the intervention of the Plant Protection Authority. We have an unusual situation here, paradoxical. I'm saying the Ministry did a good job, and colleagues who won't accept my amendment say that the inspections at the Ministry of Agriculture didn't work and that nothing worked well. What didn't work out well, didn't work out well. In this case, the ministry led by Mr. Glamočić, who I have been the opposition for the past two years, and Mr. Goran Knezevic before him, as I am now the opposition to the future Minister of Agriculture, has done a good thing. The plant protection administration has banned pesticides that produce the death of cranes and eagles. This obviously remained out of sight for all who wanted to make observations, comments, the challenge of this amendment and the idea of talking about what the government was doing between 2008 and 2012, the Government in 2007 to 2008, the Government in 2004 to 2007 or the Government in 2001 to 2004. For some I was an opposition, some I supported. To those whom I was an opposition, they did several good things, as Minister Aleksandar Popovic, who led this ministry during the period of the government in 2004 to 2007, regardless of what I was an opposition. We won't get far in dialogue if we don't listen carefully. If I am and when I want to criticize what anyone has done in surveillance, in inspection services, in the proposals of the law for the past two years, I will make it very clear from now on, but I don't think there's any need for that. The election's over. The results of the government, which some of the MPs have supported here, some have been the opposition, are partly embedded in the election result that has been achieved, which I congratulate you on, the winners of the election at the Constitutional Session. It is now a matter of using the right to propose an amendment which I claim is fortunate that there are stenograms, that at some stage of the work of this government, which I wish to succeed in negotiations with the EU, I ask you to understand this, since the success of this negotiator, the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment, as proposed, or failure leaves consequences for all of us, whether we politically support one or another party, one or another president, vice-president, minister, minister, whoever. It's a subject I'd like to ask you to focus a lot more on than on not listening carefully enough. I repeat once again, the Plant Protection Administration, the ministry led by Mr. Glamocic, did well, reacted in time and banned pesticides, but the damage happened. I cite details of how and why the damage occurred, as I say agriculture is a contaminant of the natural environment. It will be, regardless of whether the ministry is headed by the minister who is supported by this or any other majority. The measure to delay the time in which all investments are to be made, to ensure that environmental protection and the transitional deadline are determined as easily as possible by agriculture is the measure concerning the negotiations, and that is the measure that makes it good for the agriculture and environmental protection ministries to be separated. I hope I don't get a chance, and there's no way I'll ever mention that because of the use of pesticides that the Plant Protection Authority has banned, there's been a murder of any number of rare birds in Serbia, which is otherwise a migration area for birds, fortunately the habitat of rare migratory birds. I'm just stating an example, because I find it illustrative enough for everyone to think about it carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u285	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, I disagree that agriculture has turned out to be an exclusive environmental pollutant. I agree that to some extent it damages the environment, but also contributes to the quality of air. Plants produce oxygen, and environmental protection is not only about protecting land, protecting water, but also about protecting and air. In Europe, because of the quality of land and due to the excessive use of herbicides, pesticides, because they once had a separate agriculture ministry from environmental protection, they set out to take care of both agriculture and environmental protection, realizing that they had lost due to the excessive use of herbicides, pesticides and mineral fertilisers to the quality of land. Today Europe of 104 million hectares of its agricultural land, due to the restoration of the quality of land and in a certain way to protect that land, protect the environment, rests 7%, almost seven million hectares each year, by not processing it to restore that quality. I don't think we've lost that quality yet, and with gratitude we should look at this proposal. That agriculture and environmental protection are together, which doesn't mean, and here it's so interpreted, that agriculture will dominate the environment. On the contrary, agriculture and the environment will go together to take care of one another. So it's best to be in one ministry, even best to be in one building, that these people work together, of course they don't dominate each other, they don't dominate each other over each other. As far as agriculture is concerned, it should also be stressed that it is important for the environment to be there because of the examination of various quality and maintenance of certain standards that we have adopted, especially with regard to the quality of water, air, etc. I don't agree with the assessment that in Užica agriculture is guilty of water pollution. As far as I know, these were cottages and facilities that were created directly along the waterway and that it caused the algae that polluted the water and that water wasn't for drinking. I don't remember that happening with agriculture, although I claim that mineral fertilisers, especially when they're being overused by herbicides, pesticides affect agriculture, but the intensity in Europe and ours will be to move more and more on organic food production, so we'll need this co-ordination and coordination and great co-operation between those two parts of the ministry. I think it's a good thing that agriculture is connected to environmental protection, since agriculture covers large areas of land, it has special authority on state land, it covers water, forestry, etc. In my opinion, it is most natural for environmental protection to be together with the agriculture ministry, which does not mean and I do not agree that it is less important than agriculture, but simply to be one ministry with two areas of equal importance. There's one more thing to say. When someone objectes to the quality of the water in Užica, especially when it happens and when it is said – the provincial secretariat etc., I want to present the following fact. If that was the case in the province's secretariat of quality, I wonder how this province's secretariat, which received the transfer of competence to an appropriate environmental responsibility, allowed a factory for recycling and production of lead accumulators to be built in India on regional waterways, and waste water to go into a sizable channel above the Inji waterway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u287	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic, Article 158, attitude. 8, five minutes of total debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u288	Thank you. Here we hear two kinds of arguments. One argument is that the promoter, the Proposer, should separate this as a special ministry of environmental protection, and another argument by the authorities, or the previous promoter, that it is perfectly logical for it to be together for the Ministry of Agriculture. There is also an argument that in some previous government that ministry was together with the Ministry of Spatial Planning. Both sides offer excellent arguments to support our proposal where this ministry is called the Ministry of Agriculture, the environment and spatial planning. It's not a farm contaminant, nor does spatial planning affect negatively. Bad agriculture, bad farming, bad application and all the bad that can be applied to agriculture is a real problem. Agriculture is Serbia's development chance, and I guess we all agree on that. Spacious planning if done well reduces the risk of pollution. If it's done badly, as in the last ten years and as in the last fifty years, then we have a problem with both the environment and the constant development of the economy, with small investments, with unemployment, with everything that has plagued this country both in the last ten years and in the last two years intensively. Therefore, if you listen to your arguments and each other, I understand that you will vote for our amendment to change the number and composition of the ministries and that you will support this reasonable proposal that puts in the field of environmental protection exactly the same subject who are potential contaminants and those who can prevent it. I think that this work in a preventive sense can be very effective, precisely if it is one ministry with powers to be applied and with powers that will be applicable to everyone and with the composition of that ministry and with the Minister and with the Secretary of State, officials who will be brave enough and educated to apply all these laws in a valid manner. We'll agree that if good laws apply that the chance of damage is very small, whether it's the environment, foreign policy, health care, the police or anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u289	The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u290	I would like to refer to the mention of the province's secretariat and the transfer of jurisdiction. I'm glad it was mentioned here for another reason. Transferred jurisdiction is one story, and the money transferred is another story. Unfortunately, the province has no funds from the pollution charge, and unfortunately two years ago the Environment Fund was abolished. So that story about jurisdiction is fine, but if there's no funds, then it can't be conducted by any regional secretariat, no local self-government. If he hasn't transferred the funds, and he has jurisdiction, he can't do his job right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u291	The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u292	As for the Environment and Transfer Fund, I can tell you with responsibility that institutions such as public health institutions have been constantly monitoring the quality of air in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for 40 years, as well as the Environment Protection Agency, which has installed the Horiba mobile air monitoring station in the previous period until it has functioned, has not transferred a single dinar. The Fund's money has been wastelessly on "Let's Clean Serbia" campaigns on various propaganda materials that have not benefited this country. These are huge funds, and these facilities were completely on the market, they were doing their best to know and know how to provide a healthy environment, healthy air for our citizens. I think we're done talking about the Fund once before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u293	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u294	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course we will not accept this amendment, nor the amendment of the gentleman, our distinguished colleague Zivkovic and colleagues, Marijan Risticevic, for a simple reason. I explained it two days ago in a principle debate. Simple. All these solutions are possible. That's not at all controversial. Absolutely everything that is written in each of these amendments is possible, as is possible and well as possible what is written in the bill. Don't let us deal with the form. We won these elections, we won 2/3 of the majority in parliament, and the citizens expect us to deal with the essence, not the form. We had a special ministry. We had a Environmental Protection Fund. At the same time, we had a lot of riverbeds with plastic bottles and other dirt. It's true that agriculture can be a polluter. Those of us in the hunt know it very well. It's true that industry can be a polluter. It is true that each of us can individually be an environmental pollutant. The Environment Fund transferred money to the Public Company "Parking Service" in Smederev to buy a truck that would drive through the city centre to collect garbage from the can in the street, which was like Knez Mihajlova in Smederev, King Peter, to hire a few more members of the Democratic Party, because the director of the "Parking Service" was from the Democratic Party. No, that way we will not protect the environment and we will not do it, but we will do it in a responsible way as all responsible European peoples and European governments do. That's why the citizens chose us. This is the form under which the government will be formed, and the essence is what will be done and I hope that the opposition will then be ready to help and show when it comes to the essence - whether it is good or not. Now I think that this is just someone using the situation to get more at the time of the weekend talking about it and taking pictures on TV, but I repeat to let the citizens know further -- this is a form. The point is what will be done, and it will certainly work much better, because it is a great responsibility for us and for the people who work there and how responsible they are for the difference between the previous period and a much better organisation of agriculture and, in any case, the protection of the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u295	Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u296	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just two sentences to say about this bill of law that the government has delivered to us. Right now, let me say that I support the bill the government sent us, not the amendments. The explanation, if true, is what colleagues and fellow MPs say is the biggest polluter of agriculture, then there is indeed reason for the ecologicality along with agriculture to be combined for reasons of preventive action. Unfortunately, for years, we've always dealt with the consequences. We don't deal with causes. We will not have a pre-election parol in the future – let's clean Serbia, but rather – let's not pollute Serbia. That's the problem. It's essential, and of course, that the work of inspection is important. They will work daily to prevent pollution. I have a feeling this is about who's going to be Minister of Ecology. It's side effects. For us, what the predecessor said is the essence of things. Serbian citizens expect the government to be really effective, and to make this ministry effective this bill is an extraordinary thing. In education and education, we also know that we are wrong sometimes. We're dealing with violence instead of parenting. It's not just about protecting the environment, it's about improving the environment, and I think the government made an extraordinary suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u297	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u298	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a good thing this amendment committee has not accepted for several reasons. One of these reasons is that each of these ministries could be redistributed to some other ministries so that we would have maybe 30 or 40 ministries and so many ministers and so many state secretaries, etc. This government and its president were considering a little rationalizing, not spending on all sides. Any one of these ministries could... When it comes to agriculture, we could have had the Ministry of Plains, the Ministry of Vojvodina, for mountainous areas, and in the Ministry of Justice to be the D.A.'s Department, for this or that. It's not good. It's not good of the promoters for the simple reason that they've had all the opportunities and chances in the last 12 years that everything they're proposing to us now, so that we now see these results of their work, not that they've ruined this country and that we can't get it out in a few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u299	The word is Hope Lazic. Let me tell you that your group has three minutes and 30 seconds left. I was obliged to tell you that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u300	I'll be brief. When it comes to the fund, the Environmental Protection Act states that there is a budget fund that collects dedicated funds from pollution charges. Does this mean that this member of the law will be thrown out in the next period and that we will throw out the fund as a category, because in the meantime, funds are being raised from these fees and we don't know what it's spending two years back? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u301	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was very interested in this topic that was now discussed when it comes to environmental protection. I would not like to talk about how the previous ministries worked on this, but obviously that the understanding of the state administration and the way the state administration works or possibly perhaps not knowing about their fellow MPs, should have been questioned, the environment ministry determines the strategy. You have regulatory bodies within the government that carry it out on the ground. You have the Environmental Protection Agency, so you have the Environmental Protection Authority. The problem is that we had in some other governments, not in the previous one, ministers who were not very interested except for the good of these administrations who did not give their results, who did not establish a environmental protection strategy, which involved promoting their personal and promotion of the ministry and abuses under environmental protection. Is it environmental protection to import municipal waste that has been poisoned in Serbia, old batteries to get subsidies from the state? If this is environmental protection, I ask fellow MPs who supported such ministers to tell us and what did these ministers do while supporting them and what should new ministers not do? This way when it comes to whether it's the Ministry of Agriculture... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The Ministry of Spatial Planning. As a promoter, can I from the time of the parliamentary group? (President: You can. You're wasting your time from the parliamentary group. We're interested in the results. We are interested in the result in every area that some government, including this future one that I believe will be elected tomorrow, to achieve in the next period. We are also interested in the mistakes of the previous governments, for according to that people, a wise man learns from other people's mistakes and someone else learns from his own mistakes. We others don't want to be you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u303	The People's MP, Snezana Malovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Proposer Snezana Malovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u304	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, I have proposed an amendment to the proposal for a law on ministries, to Article 2 of point 7, where the term "Justice Ministry" is changed to "The Ministry of Justice, Human and Minority Rights". We proposed a special ministry because we respected the system of the proposal for a law on ministries. Although in our national history there have been different practices regarding where protection and improvement of human and minority rights are foreseen, we believe that the Office for Human and Minority Rights has done quite well, but we believe that the degree of protection and promotion of human and minority rights, especially because of the obligations our country has in terms of European integration, should be raised to the level of the ministry. In two minutes, it's a little bit like saying the reasons why you should do it, but in the shortest lines, I'll try to point it out. I think the most important thing to point out is that in 2006, the UN General Assembly adopted a Resolution establishing a new control mechanism for the human rights situation. As I said, the Office for Human and Minority Rights has done a lot of things, and I believe that their activity with regard to discrimination of certain groups should be highlighted, especially with regard to inclusion within the Decada Roma. However, this is not all that needs to be done in terms of, as I said, promotions and protection of human and minority rights. Human and minority rights include one wide palette. There is a special part in our Constitution that is provided for in terms of their protection and the very rule of law rests precisely on the protection of human and minority rights... Time, two minutes. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u305	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? There are no reports. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 2. At its meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word is for Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u306	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I came forward shortly after that amendment Mrs. Snezana Malovic gave as a member of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on... (President: You were not in the system at all as reported, we moved on to the second amendment. I checked in, but you didn't realize that I applied. (President: You weren't in the system, we moved on to the second amendment. If you want to talk about that amendment, you can. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u307	Thank you. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u308	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the ministry's law on Article 2(1), and I have proposed that the Ministry of Education and Science, as proposed, be changed to the name and that the ministry be called – the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. The promoter did not accept that amendment, without explanation. My explanation for this amendment was this, I will read to you: "It is important that through the very name of this ministry the importance of technological development is highlighted, because education and science without technological development do not represent a rounded continent. Technological development represents an improvement in scientific and research work in the function of economic development technology. The strategy of technological development should include both education and science, as an integral part of it. The training of scientific and research staff assumes that a strategy and technological development has been established. In addition, technological development involves the transfer of knowledge and technology to the economy, as well as the improvement of the innovation system. If it is a country, and we have heard that it is, turned to relying on science and technological development, it is necessary to express it more clearly through the name of the ministry. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” I think this argument was clear enough. The promoter didn't accept my proposal, did he, Mr. Arsic? But something very strange happened. Namely, the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government, Mr. Petrovic is not here, he has submitted an amendment... (President: Time. I will use the time of my authorised representative. So he proposed an amendment in the same text, i.e. it differs in one letter "and", which, as a technical correction, I could correct, if you had the will to accept this amendment. You have accepted the amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, which says - in the Proposal for a Law on Ministrys, in Article 2 of point 12, it is amended and reads as follows: "The Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development". One letter "i" is the difference. The explanation is four or five words – it is proposed to retain the current name of the ministry and underline the importance of technological development. So, my argument is more complete, you'll agree, this is an explanation just to give an explanation, so I ask you, Mr. Arsic, did the amendment I submitted and you did not accept for the reason that he was unacceptable to you or because he should have gone to the media that no amendment to the opposition was accepted? Was this amendment of mine bad? No, because the same amendment of the Justice Committee was accepted. I ask Mr. Peter Petrovic, the chairman of this committee, who is not here in the O.R., and it would be good if he were here as a proposal for an amendment that had previously been adopted - which is why they have, in some way, been used to adopt, not to say the more difficult word, by alienating my amendment? I'll take the opportunity to say something about the abuse of intellectual rights. Today's paper was transferred from US Ambassador Michael Kirby's visit to a rally yesterday, which said that the Serbian economy and budget lost about 250m euros annually to illegal trade, and most of it to piracy and intellectual property abuse. It is said that if only 1% reduced intellectual property abuse, which is now 72% and is the world's largest, the global average is 35%, so only one percent of the reduction in intellectual property abuse would bring 1,200 jobs. Gentlemen, you've been talking about new jobs. What example does fellow Petrovic give that in the assembly building, he takes my amendment, to make him an amendment to the Justice Committee? I don't think it's at least correct, first of all that you've called the opposition, or invited all the parliamentary groups, and that was your announcement, to work together. What motive do you give the opposition's MPs to propose amendments if my amendment will be submitted to the Office 25 hours and 30 minutes before the amendment of the Justice Committee, and you accept the amendment of the Justice Committee? So you're waiting for amendments to the opposition MPs and then turning them into amendments to the Committee. For starters, it's not correct, and I hope this isn't going to happen anymore, so we can work together. In any case, I will take another chance to point out that technological development is an integral segment of the development of modern society, and there is no technological development without science and education, nor does it have science and education unless it is implemented in technological development, or the state has no use for it. The greatest possibility of our economy and job creation is in technological development, therefore, to raise the level of technological equipment through the implementation of knowledge that, unfortunately, in our country, stands in drawers and scientists most often work for themselves. The circle closes at the institutes and these knowledge cannot be implemented. I hope that, regardless of how this amendment was adopted, the essence will still be achieved, and that this is the Ministry of Education of Science and Technological Development in its further work will be turned towards economy. This ministry should be the key, because many developed countries that are now pretending to become the first to develop in the world, such as China, such as India, etc., have achieved their success right through innovation and through the scientific achievements of their personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u309	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u310	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I can only thank my colleague for taking care of the quality of the law. I think he's even a member of that Justice Committee. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: I did not. You're not a member. Okay. Let me tell you, this "and" bond can cost a lot. We thank you for one good idea. There wasn't time for the speed of law-making to invite you to make amends, although it wouldn't be business, but it's been in practice so far. We also thank you for taking care of the quality of the law, and we were prepared to accept that amendment. Basically, he was also accepted, Mr. Veselinovic, only added one ally. If it meant a great deal to you that your amendment would be accepted, here we are, ready in some future work some committee amendment to give in to you, which you will sign. Basically, that committee amendment is your amendment. The ally "i" means – on all administrations that are in the responsibility of the ministry, the board should be changed. Do you know how much it costs? We need to change the IDs of the employees. Do you know how much it costs? You need to change the seals. Do you know how much it costs? That is why the ally is "and" added, so that none of this would change. Basically, your amendment has been accepted and I thank you for one good idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u311	Janko Veselinović, on what basis, do I apologize? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. I thought the pleasure was mutual, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u312	Mr Arsic, you say the amendment of the Parliamentary Group, Boris Tadic – New Democratic Party – Together for Serbia – Green Serbia has been accepted. You could have said that yesterday. This "i" wouldn't have cost the state anything if we had made a correction, so I thank you, but I don't want to compensate, to change the amendments in some future period. I'll be free to endure future amendments, and if you have a wish, you accept them, and if you don't, do it as last time, turn it into a committee amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u313	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u314	You know what, I've never been angry. For example, I have experienced far worse things than my colleagues, I have written amendments that were smoothly rejected at board meetings and at the Parliament's plenary session, not even the following committee amendments. You were talking about intellectual property. Then my amendments were prescribed to a law where the motion was government or a certain ministry. They were governments you supported. They prescribed amendments and in six months my amendments were in laws, amendments and additions to the law. It took time, we didn't want to harass you to come from Panchev to write an amendment, to come back, etc. Basically, it's your amendment, through the correction of the amendment submitted by the committee in charge. You're free to be proud and boast about it. We have no desire to challenge any good idea, whether it comes from parties representing the former regime or from parties supporting the current government. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u315	Are you mentioned by name? Yeah. ) The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u316	I really wouldn't have called if Mr. Arsic hadn't told me where I came from, and I'm not actually coming from. So, I'm from New Now and I'm proud to be from New Now, I'm not from Panchev. In Pancheva there is the street of Janko Veselinović, perhaps you have replaced it. Mr. Arsic, don't call on how badly the previous governments have done, so you can copy that. Try to focus your work on being well rated by Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u317	Thank you. So, we're all from New Now. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u318	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, when we discussed the law as a whole, I said that during the campaign, and of course we were now handing out arms to all parties and we were willing to talk to everyone, regardless of how many votes we won, we did not act. We also wanted the New Democratic Party, which belonged to Mr. Vesenovic, to join the government. In this regard, we are also open always to new proposals, to good ideas, and we will incorporate every amendment to the bill, whether it comes from opposition MPs or come from the ruling majority MPs, if these amendments are compatible with the legislator's ideas and the desire for the new government to be effective. It is our wish that tomorrow we have passed a law based on which to form and choose a new republican government. In that sense, as a member of the Committee on Justice, the Committee in which Mr. Janko Veselinović is not a member, but at any time as a MP, I am sorry that he did not do so, but we accepted a good idea of him and I call on him that every time there is an idea and whenever there is any law on the agenda this law is inaugurated by giving an idea of its own, and we will accept it and I will be very happy to support it with my vote on that committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u319	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u320	This is about the essence. So if you have an idea and if that idea is worth anything, that idea should remain owned by whoever put it out and who wrote it, put it on paper. That's what I was talking about earlier, not signing Peter Petrovic under that idea. In particular, the president of the Committee is called Petar Petrovic, which is why I say Petar Petrovic. So that's all it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u321	Both MPs Branko Karavidic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Ivan Karic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u322	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is good when there is not too much tension when we talk, because over the past two years there have been too much tension. It seems to me that this amendment does not challenge the importance and value of agriculture and its share in the Serbian economy. But here we think we should look for special care and a new single ministry. I'm going to read all the countries here, because it was mostly a partial truth in some of the exposés on both sides. The Ministry of Energy has France, Greece and Switzerland. The Ministry of Agriculture, you didn't mention Spain, has Spain, Austria, Great Britain and Cyprus. But, much more interesting, more developed and European, if I may say so, countries have unique ministries, so Finland, Sweden and Norway, which I would not compare with, have special ministries. Belgium also has a special ministry, as does Italy. As for countries in the environment, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Poland, Slovenia and our two favorite countries, Russia and Germany also have special ministries for environmental protection, for natural resources, for spatial planning, both by countries and by which ministry. What defined us as comparing ourselves to Germany is remediation and development in East Germany, which is particularly apostrophe. The former SFRY, today's Serbia, looks very much like East Germany. That's why we believe that historical pollution, that everything we inherited in these 25 or 60 years, so that no one... Time, two minutes. Let me just finish my sentence, please. In order for no one to feel guilty, we think they deserve this country's special ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u323	Thank you. The word is Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u324	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, speaking of a partial truth, it is important to stress that countries that are similar to Serbia have a combined ministry of agriculture and environmental protection and the greatest examples of Slovakia, Austria and Hungary. It is important to stress that the environmental segment to monitor water control, and the water is normally under the authority of the Ministry of Agriculture, or agriculture, which means that these two things are certainly something that can be productive and is not conflicting with one another, so to speak. We reiterate the importance of having a rational ministry, a ministry that will not spend money on Serbian citizens and will not make any new agencies, or create additional administrations, as the DS did in earlier years. One Democratic Party, given that we now have a new one, but we must not forget everything that has been done and how it has been thrown and spent the money of Serbian citizens. I therefore believe that this is a good proposal for the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection to be in one place and that it will bring results in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u325	The word is Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u326	I also think that this is a good proposal, as my predecessor said, but I think it is an excellent proposal to find spatial planning along with the Ministry of Transport, Construction, and to have one co-ordination, correct co-ordination with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. You know, we need to set priorities to see what each other needs more. When you have a car building, it's very important to take care of the so-called green belts. It is necessary to protect the environment, but it is also linked to the proper use of the land that is here and will be taken away from agriculture, and to be eligible for the construction of infrastructure projects. Therefore, we should take care of this together, and I think that this distribution is excellent, but what we should insist on is coordination between these ministries, because it is unartificial and simply in such a way that we can have both the protection of the environment and the good roads and the good green belts, which guarantee not only protection from aero-pollution, but also a major problem of noise protection which is one of the great contaminants and to which it is increasingly important both in Europe and in the world, and it has a devastating impact on health. Therefore, ambience and health impact is something that we also need to take care of, and if we want to go on forever, then with full right we can say that the Ministry of Health also belonged to a part of the environment. The health ministry, according to the "difolt", controls the correctness of drinking water. So what do we do? Then we'll go on forever, but we need to properly deploy the ministries, see what's more appropriate, and insist on coordination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u327	Ivan Karic. On what grounds? You can take time from the parliamentary group. These are the amendments. So you're aware that you don't have the right to a replica. You can spend your time with your MP group. (Ivan Karic, from the post: I can only interpret the amendment, not directly, only the amendment. No, I won't waste my time with the MPs' group. So you're aware that you don't have the right to a replica. You can spend your time with your MP group. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u328	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable President, we have proposed to amend Article 3 in two ways in terms of the name and in terms of the content of that member. We propose that Article 3, which in the Proposal for a Law on Ministrys, is entitled "The Ministry of Finance" be changed and that the new term "The Ministry of Finance and Economy" stands. Whoever carefully read the proposal for a law on ministries could see that the jobs that fall within the work of this ministry were divided here into three paragraphs. We believe that not only should the economic real estate be added to the finance portfolio, but all the jobs that fall within the work of the finance and economy ministry should be defined as accurately as possible. We did it here, so we divided those jobs into 13 very clear continents. These are the jobs of the general state administration from the department of finance and economy. Then we state very precisely what kind of business these are. According to this business, the state administration has to encourage development, the state administration's affairs to coordinate, the state administration's affairs to direct regulation, the state administration's affairs to analyse and propose measures. Special business of the state administration and proposing rules in the field of corruption elimination, the affairs of the state administration with a foreign element, the affairs of the state administration relating to taxes, customs, payment and securities of value, the affairs of the state administration relating to accounting, audit and accounting. One in ten are the affairs of the state administration relating to privatisation, the rehabilitation of technical regulations and bankruptcy, the affairs of the state administration relating to the forms of property, the affairs of state control. We have like 13 continents of special business that we put in the finance and economy ministry. We especially single out the Tax Administration, Customs Administration and the Directorate for Measures and Expensive Metals. We believe that accepting this amendment would make a significant contribution to defining the effectiveness of the government's work as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u329	Thank you. Pursuant to Rule 157 of Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government has submitted an amendment to Article 3. At the session of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Proposer accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u330	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've only volunteered for the public who's probably following this transmission. Since my name is mentioned as the signatories of the amendment submitted by the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local self-government to say that it was only possible for the Committee to submit those amendments at this time, given that the debate was in principle started and completed and only the Committee could submit these amendments to the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I would like to thank some colleagues who have submitted good amendments, but the professional service has assessed that they should be improved for technical reasons, spelling and some others, and that is why it was as if the Committee were a proposing of the amendment, not a respected colleague. I thank my colleagues on behalf of the Committee for having good ideas, but for certain reasons, how the professional service evaluated them should have made them a little better. The promoter accepted that and that is the only reason it goes as an amendment to the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u331	The names above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u332	It is formally before numbering, and it is a fundamental suggestion that instead of "the Ministry of Foreign Affairs" we have "the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration". Foreign affairs without European integration do not exist for a country facing negotiations with the EU. Who will not put it into his law, he obviously does not mean seriously to continue this country's path towards the EU. It would be very strange for someone to accept the foreign minister's position if part of it is related to European integration outside the ministry, and it is particularly ugly and difficult to explain to anyone who wants to do good to this country, to deal with European integrations, or as we hear a minister without portfolios. I think it is one bad principle that continues in relation to the last government and I call on you to adopt this amendment, because this is the only way we can show that we are one serious country in which, right now in parliament, all parties who are ready to contribute their way to the EU, in this way simple, formal that belief will be clear to all Serbian citizens, will be clear to all our friends in Europe, it will be clear to our enemies who do not want us to continue that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u333	Thank you. Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u334	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I advocate, of course, that this amendment be rejected, because there is no basis. European integration is something that our country has routed as its own path, and it is something that must be developed in particular and I must stress the great satisfaction of these announcements that Mrs Joksimovic will be in charge of such a thing, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in addition to European integration, of course also deals with other activities, i.e. the development of great friendships and with some other countries, not only European integrations. We need it because this country is the most important thing, that we really have a special portfolio that will only deal with European integration and I call on the Assembly not to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u335	Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u336	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we know Mr. Zivkovic's policy, when we talk about European integration, and you promised citizens to join the European Union already in 2007, but unfortunately because of one destructive policy, destructive policy, personal interest policy, it did not happen. However, the Serbian Progressive Party in the previous government, since it was also the biggest responsibility since it was the largest then, began negotiations with the European Union and showed seriousness and commitment to this path and therefore there is no need to deal with formal or I do not know what principles to add or combine in the name itself, but we do show it in the works. There's one saying that's important and I like to repeat it often, which is that one gram of action is worth more than a ton of theory. We have seen a theory in the previous 12 or 15 years, and now we will see for the first time what it means to work in our country and how truly the true Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party are struggling to raise the quality of life and standards of our citizens, and also for membership in the European Union that will soon come, already in the next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u337	Right on the line, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u338	Thank you. I think it would be a good idea that when you hold a session to direct MPs to talk about the subject, but we want to deal with political bickering, it's the same part of parliamentary life, so we can do that. To remind a young colleague, I don't remember the name, that I was last in an authority of government ten years ago, that it's been a long time, so in those years as I was Prime Minister, it's hard for Serbia to enter the European Union, with all the good things that were done then. On the other hand, as I recall most of your colleagues sitting here with you then promised Karoblag-Ogulin and Virovitica. So, please, if we talk that way, I'll remember a lot from your past, which, not to you, because you're very young, but for many others to remain as an eternal mark. I have nothing to be ashamed of from my past, unlike many here. Part of the MPs sitting on your side voted for the government that I led, participated in the five-octobaric changes, burned down this assembly, and now they act like that part of their life doesn't exist. I call on all my colleagues to deal with what's on the agenda, if anyone wants us to deal with the past, I'm willing to talk about it for days, hours, weeks, years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u339	All in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the time you have. I call upon the Members of Parliament not to make a difference in gender, a difference in the age of Members. Here you go. Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u340	Mr. Zivkovic, I will try to remember my name, but your name people remember it in one bad time for the Republic of Serbia, and don't talk to you about European integrations, we remember various affairs, among other things, the Serbian Progressive Party will not be led through personal prosperity and wealth that in terms of state it gets huge loans in terms of credit, because we heard you advocated agriculture, and I'm very sure that your vineyards and what you have at the expense of these citizens are still making good progress today, and you have profit from it all. Do not deal with the past for the simple reason that I was 15 years old when I watched you on television and believe me that I have a bitter taste in my mouth, because of everything you've done, and that after your successors sitting on your left and right, they've been torn apart, they've led Serbia, they've destroyed the Serbian economy, and as long as they've brought Serbia's budget and Serbian citizens. We will be guided by each other, through action and be sure that the Government, led by Alexander Vukic, will succeed in raising the economy that you have been destroying for years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u341	You certainly have the right to a replica, Zoran Zivkovic. I call upon the MPs at the beginning of our work to keep an eye on what we are going to say to each other and not to speak to each other personally and not to use the qualifications of our lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u342	I've been informed of my predecessor's last name, and now I've remembered that it's a councilman in the Belgrade City Assembly, and yesterday he repeated it on a gram of promises and tons of work, that poor metaphor. As far as my assets are concerned, of course, no matter what you're a little over 15 now, you know a little bit. I don't have any vineyards and whoever tells you about it is on a level that I won't comment on, and I'm giving you a recommendation not to listen to. I never got any subsidy, it got one company where I was co-owner, and your Alexander Vukic got an apartment from the state from 20 and some years to 15 days before the start of the bombing in 1999, when he was still a patriot, when he was still talking about Ogulin, about Karlobag, about the banishment of these or those over these and those mountains, and that's the question, and you Mr. President paid taxes on extra profit, it's not my libel or my sense, it's a fact. Therefore, it has been proven by law that it is not judicial, that it has earned extra profit, which, of course, for any of my business activities since 1986 until today, has neither been established, regardless of the great efforts of various authorities. Finally, my heirs are alive and well, not in this House, not directly through the metaphor and I, the people sitting in this House, none of them, neither individually nor collectively, consider my successor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u343	Please close the circle of replicas with this, but right on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u344	Article 106,107 injured the dignity of the National Assembly. A colleague who spoke before me also mentioned a prime minister who is not in this room and cannot answer him, he mentioned some time when MPs came in here in jeans, torn shoes, and for 12 years in power today wear suits and watches that I can't earn from a parliamentary salary for 20 years. He mentioned some MPs who took down his government. He mentioned MPs who voted for his government, so they voted against his government. He mentioned some apartments where people live, and no mention of apartments that were built to make someone rich. He mentioned the law on extraprofit tax, and only two people paid it because those who really needed to pay suddenly became favorites of the regime. The time of successful European integration is mentioned by breaking the shifts to sugar exports to the EU. The work of a more democratic parliament has been mentioned, and television transmission has been excluded. A successful Rules of Procedure is mentioned. This is the continuation of the first Rules of Procedure. It's all those ugly times I'd like to forget. If someone like a colleague who talked about all this... (President: Time. Here, I'm done. ... He has seen his mistakes from his past and wants to correct them in this House and to... (President: I thank you. Time for the Rules of Procedure's breach is two minutes. )......................................................................................................... Here, I'm finishing the sentence I started. Let me finish. (President: You have extended to another five seconds. Here you go. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u345	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure by not preventing MP Zoran Zivkovic from expressing his kind of replication. Mr. Arsic, if you wish, the National Assembly can plead on the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote? (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: No. I thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u346	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know, there's a saying in our people that says, "It's not a neck, it's a neck." That's what my colleagues used to say -- I didn't get it, but she got my company where I own it. Of course, these were directly received funds and recognized everything that fellow Jovicic made very fundamentally. On the other hand, the mention of Alexander Vukic and his political action... You know, behind Alexander Vukic and his political action and the operation of the SNS, there are not hundreds of thousands of people left without a job in the past 12, 13 years, and there are no broken businesses as we found it two years ago, when we took responsibility for the government, there was no economy left to the tycoons to do whatever they wanted, no economy left to the privatisation of the Kumsky, the Burazer, the Bahatim, no state left to float and wander in the waterless new borrowings that were given in consumption without new values, no welcome state with built corridors, with a regulated judiciary, with an orderly system. No, the rest is broken down, destroyed, without any measure or principle. I will not accept such a label on Alexander Vukic and on the SNS, especially that our policy is a building policy, a zero tolerance policy for corruption crime, a policy of facing all the challenges of our society, and I do not want a label that does not stand and is not sincere.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u347	National MP Zoran Zivkovic, right on line. Since you're away from the subject, I'm closing a circle of replicas after you. Please pay attention to what you say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u348	Of course, I'm not going to fall into a trap to tell the truth so I can get my colleagues' applause already ordered. Of course it's part of the parliamentary practice, and I don't mind. I just want to remind you, since you, Mr Babić, are a little older than this colleague whose last name I managed to remember, which is that at a time when I was involved in politics these few months ago, which has been behind us since 1997 as President of the City of Nis Assembly, from 2000 to 2003 as Federal Minister of the Interior, from 2003 to 2004, as prime minister and a few times over MP, which is federal, which is what the republican parliaments, this state did not owe, but the debts were paid back. Five billion debts were paid back in one year. Employment was positive, i.e. that the trend was positive. What the Socialists together with you and the NATO Pact destroyed in the 1990s has been restored. The collapse of Serbia began in 1990, and of course it was not interrupted, unfortunately for me, on October 5th, it was only one small chance that was not used, especially in the period from 2004 to today. I do not see a significant difference in the time from 2004 to today, no matter who was then in power, in the consequences that these authorities have applied from 2004 to today and to the economies, both to the citizens, and to the right, and to the respect and honor of this country. In the 1990s, it's the worst time in Serbia's history. If you will, both from Karadjord or if you will from Nemanja or if you want from Radovan someone great, great, it's the worst time in the history of this country. Don't call on that time, it's not good for you, it's not good for anyone. Of course history does, and of course people who want to remember facts know that very well. I have no intention of talking about it. As you've seen, we've submitted 36 amendments. (President: Time. That was our idea for today. (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: The Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u349	On what grounds? Which member do you advertise?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u350	Article 106, 107 and 108
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u351	This was a replica of Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u352	It was a replica, but when someone talks about their government results, I can't help but remember...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u353	So it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u354	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. That little insults the dignity of the National Assembly, because I can't forget one piece of my biography. All right, I agree, but when it was such a successful government, why was the current President Tomislav Nikolic so convincing in the 2003 presidential election beaten by the candidate proposed by DS, whose office you were then acting? If these are successful results, don't tell us what to do anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u355	This closes the circle of replicas because you completely left the topic. National MP Olgica Batic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u356	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. I'm advocating a violation of Article 108(1), which says it's the turn of the National Assembly session of the old National Assembly president. If you are already allowing someone to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, do not allow the MP to keep replicating within two minutes. Today, from the beginning of this session, it has been permanent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u357	Thank you. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. Do you want us to vote on that in the voting day? (Olgica Batić, from the place: No. I thank you. By adopting your suggestion, we move on to the next member. (Marian Risticevic, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u358	I'm advertising the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u359	According to article 107, we just had...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u360	I'm sorry, he's listed more members. So, Mr. Arsic listed three members.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u361	And before that, also Article 107. You have no right to appeal to the Rules of Procedure this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u362	Wait a minute. First of all, you didn't give me your word when I answered the amendment. I have the right to speak by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u363	National MP Marijan Risticevic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u364	Madam Chairman, first you skipped me when I answered for the amendment, then you wouldn't let me...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u365	Here, you've got the word after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u366	I'll discuss it by amendment. The amendment concerns the Ministry of Finance and Economy. It's a ministry where various responsibilities are listed, all tasks can be done by the ministry. I may accept this amendment, but the amendment lacks text or part that would relate to the payment of subsidies. So, the truth is, it wouldn't be good for the finance ministry to, if it refuses this amendment, pay off subsidies in the way they've done it before. For example, on 15 November 2007, the Ministry of Finance, after the solution of the Ministry of Agriculture, signed by Dobrivoje Sudjum, paid the winery "Zivkovic" over 40 million dinars of anti-value. (President: Time. I'm using the MP's time group. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to finish. Following a solution signed by Dobrivoje Sudjum, the finance ministry paid off the equivalent of 525,000 euros to Zivkovic Winery. Since 15 November, on the basis of a phytosanitary inspection from 11 November, the solution has been requested since 15 August 2007. subsidies relate to the spring planting in 2007. Nothing would be a problem if the Ministry of Finance paid for it and it was all regular, but the land on which the vineyard was planted in the spring of 2007 was the Vinarija "Zivkovic" only rented on November 7th 2007. Now I ask you how was it possible for the Ministry of Finance to pay off the grant on the basis of a August 2007 solution for the 2007 spring planting, although the state, this same ministry, leased land only in November? Is it spring in November in Serbia or is the Ministry of Finance...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u367	I ask the MP to discuss the amendment exclusively. You've come completely out of the subject of the amendment. Please finish your discussion. You're putting me in an awkward position to apply measures immediately at the beginning of our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u368	I'll finish. The amendment refers to the Ministry of Finance. I'd like all the peasants to have a chance, not just some, of the Ministry of Finance under this amendment. I'm not out of the picture. This is an amendment to the Ministry of Finance. I assume you've read the contents of the amendment. I'd like it to say in that amendment that all peasants can get 525,000, not just some.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u369	The People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u370	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Members 106 and 109. Article 106 states that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. We were just talking about our amendment to Article 4, not about our amendment to Article 3, which has already been discussed. I very much appreciate the efforts of the president of the National Assembly, who wants to have order here and I appreciate that she warned Mr Rističević about the agenda point, but I ask the president of the National Assembly that on the basis of Article 109. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly give notice to MP Risticevic, who, despite the warning of the National Assembly president, continued to talk about a point that is not on the agenda. I think that all of us here should try to perform so that we speak with dignity, because today, I think, unlike Mr. Shormaz, who claims that the government's proposal is one formality, that it doesn't matter what the ministries are going to be, I agree with Mr. Atlagic that today we are talking about the essence of things. A new government is starting to work, and we need to stick to the agenda. Mr. Risticevic has injured the Rules of Procedure here and I ask that the president give the warning measure on the basis of Article 109. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u371	You saw for yourself that I was trying to bring the session into progress to talk exclusively about amendments. I'm asking for help. I won't give notice to the MPs. I said at the very beginning that I would try to run a session together with you in a proper and dignified way and that everyone would pay attention in the way of exposure, how he felt he should create a picture of Parliament for himself, so that I would avoid any measures. By the way, I think it was quite enough to turn off the speaker who came out of the picture. The word is made by MP Marijan Risticevic, and continues to insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u372	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, this time I'm advertising Article 108. It's not a member who's been advertised. The president of the National Assembly is taking care of it at the meeting of the National Assembly. I am grateful that the president, or chairman, does, exactly, but it seems to me that some MPs are giving themselves the right to decide for themselves what is the order at the National Assembly session and what the chairman should do. I don't think the MP, no matter what parties he's from, can take over the intelligence that the president has and ask him to do almost certain executions and the way he said it. I may have hurt the Rules of Procedure, but the Rules of Procedure say the MP can't do it, only the chairman can. I apologize to the chairman if I hurt the Rules of Procedure, even if I did not harm the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u373	You can't hurt the Rules of Procedure, but allow colleagues who are new MPs to get to know our rules. Thank you. National MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Marko Djurisic submitted to the 4th and Article 39th amendments. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u374	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues from our parliamentary group and I have tabled an amendment to Article 4(1) and to Article 39(2). Proposal for a law on ministries. Namely, Article 4. The draft law regulates the ministry's jurisdiction and, among other things, says the ministry is responsible for determining strategic objectives, improving work and business, monitoring and preparing proposals for acts on the appointment and resolution of managing bodies in public enterprises. We suggest adding the words behind these words: "out of their jurisdiction". This would retain a solution from the applicable Public Business Act, which says that the competences over public enterprises are provided for the resolution ministries, i.e. that each ministry has jurisdiction over certain public undertakings in accordance with its resolution. By retaining this existing solution, it would prevent all public enterprises from being placed under the authority of the Ministry of Economy, as this would in some way create a monopoly within this ministry, resulting in a build-up of a large amount of work, a slowdown of work, and would also call into question the expertise in creating strategic plans, as public enterprises from different areas and selecting experts for managing bodies in public enterprises. So, we are in favour of remaining the solution for public enterprises to be under the jurisdiction of resolution ministries and, accordingly, in addition to this supplement in paragraph 1, we propose that Article 2 be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u375	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u376	I just wanted to add something that was a topic of discussion when we talked about this law in principle. I criticized then the fact that Article 39 changes a law that is not a topic of the agenda at all, and then the legislator, Mr. Arsic, told me that it was a practice in some past time. I remember a discussion from that last time, when we criticized such a practice. Now I ask Mr. Arsic – does he have a problem with the truth? Is it... (President: MP, are you talking about the amendment? ) On the amendment to Article 39. (President: I understand we've been talking about the past all morning. Please, let's talk about the amendment. ) Article 39 amends a law that is not on the agenda. Mr. Arsic said it was possible. I wanted to ask, if it wasn't possible in the past,... (President: Please connect the discussion with public enterprises. )......................................................................................................... What did you criticise, why is it possible today? I am talking about the fact that the Justice Committee has proposed an amendment that is now changing and is proposed to amend the Central Register Act. I want to ask Mr. Arsic, who spoke this morning about what the people think about people who don't learn from other people's mistakes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u377	You cannot speak directly to an MP. You're an old MP, so you know you can't address him directly. Get out of the context of the amendment. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u378	Of course, we do not accept, as a member of the Justice Committee, yesterday we discussed such an amendment because so far we have had through the ministries of pure party feuds in public enterprises. It's a good thing this is going to be centralized in some way, getting better control. So far, the practice has been such that we have had some public enterprises that have gone into losses because of this kind of work and control. As for what Mr., a respected colleague said, we here do not change the fundamental law on public enterprises of this law, but we only refer these laws to this Ministry Act, and I believe that in some future period, such an intensity will lead to a complete change of the Law on Public Enterprises, i.e. we will have a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u379	The word is proposed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u380	I don't understand my colleague saying that one law cannot suspend the provisions of another law. What if you have two laws and you want to make one? What's so controversial about that? Are we going to pass the law of termination of the law, and then join the draft law? I've already given you examples from the past, that this was happening. The laws you voted for, you changed the provisions of other laws. You've changed the provisions of 25, 30 laws in one law. That didn't bother you at the time. Now all of a sudden, it bothers you. You put provisions in laws that had nothing to do with what was written in them and you voted for it. That didn't bother you at the time, and now all of a sudden, it's starting to bother you and it's stabbing your eyes. I said, I even cited a few examples. If you want, I can still, no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u381	The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u382	That's exactly what I'm talking about. You criticized that practice, and now you're doing the same thing. I ask you, when were you right, then or now? This morning, at the beginning of this session, you said you were talking about how you're going to learn and you're not going to make mistakes. Did we make mistakes then, so now you're repeating mistakes, or were we right then? If that was wrong then, you mentioned, you said you could mention it many times, you criticized it, you and your colleagues, who were here in parliament, and you say I voted for that kind of thing. Now I ask you, if it wasn't wrong then, why did you do it and criticize it? I'm telling you again, don't repeat our mistakes if you want to be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u383	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u384	We don't want to repeat your mistakes because, let's say, in the Budgetary System Act, you put criminal provisions, which is the subject of the Criminal Code. In those forest regulations, the state authorities couldn't work, and that's why it was an insult to us. It took you seven or eight years to make it right. I understand that when a law is written to take effect, so it wants to prevent its abuse, some provisions are introduced, and in six months, they are suspended by another law in which it should be. It's been years for you. You've been making parallel legislation for years. Now you identify it with this. He can't, he's not going. You can't mix that up. This is a law that firstly is one of the laws that defines how the government works. The ministries are nothing but the highest authorities of the state. Public enterprises, where the founder is the government of the Republic of Serbia or the competent ministry, are extended bodies of the state administration. You can, through the roof law, suspend or repeal the provisions of some other laws. Most importantly, we don't want it to be for years, but only in a few months until a new Law on Public Enterprises is passed, which will in detail process and regulate this matter. Because of the possible adverse consequences, we want this to be introduced into the law until the new law enters into force.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u385	On behalf of the 5th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u386	The amendment under review in particular is that the title above Article 5 is amended and reads as follows: "The Ministry of Agriculture". It is a consequent amendment, given that I have tabled an amendment proposing the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Spatial Planning. These two minutes, I want to earn your attention to the reasons I gave in the amendment, and I say that this amendment complies with Amendment 1, and the content of the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture requires a special amendment, as a consequence, in the event of the adoption of Amendment 1. I want to explain, this argument is in a few sense that parliamentary practice must be respected, and even more respect for Parliament and all the acts that we have in Parliament. In the light of the adoption of the previous Ministry Act, the committee responsible is the amendment, in which I, as a substance, had the responsibility of the changing ministry, refused as incomplete and offensive. It's obviously a parliamentary practice for me. It is no longer a question of what I think about the way this committee has decided, it is not even a question of what the chairman of the committee then, MP Vladimir Cvian, was talking about, whether or not the amendment can be considered. What is a fact is that I did not submit the amendment of the title and the introduction of the Ministry of Agriculture to the Assembly and content, i.e. Amendment 5a or 5b, whatever would be called, where jurisdiction would be indicated. I did so, and this congregation told me that such an amendment is incomplete and offensive. For this reason, I would like to suggest that in the event of the adoption of Amendment 1, it will be necessary to adopt the resulting amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u387	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u388	I'm sorry, but I'm going to have to react, because it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I answered...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u389	You didn't answer the phone after the Rules of Procedure got hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u390	I answered the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u391	Then you have no right. We've moved on to the second amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u392	I know we've crossed over. This is the second time. I ask you to watch well when MPs report, since when the replicas...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u393	Please raise the Rules of Procedure, because if you answer in the system, you can't see on what basis. Thank you. The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment. The proposer is the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government who did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u394	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would just like to make a brief argument in favour of our amendment to Article 5. Namely, the proposal for a Law on Ministries provides that there is a Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government in the government of Serbia. It is our proposal to create, instead of an existing member of the 5th, a new ministry that will be called the Ministry of Justice, Human Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government. As you can see here, we want to bring together two intended ministries with this proposal, but to add one coin to mark a very important area for every modern state, which is human rights. For the sake of precision, we believe that all transactions in the work of this ministry should be grouped into six continents, dealings relating to the organisation of the judiciary and the preparation of material and procedural regulations, the affairs of analysis, co-operation, records and statistics, coordination operations, the organisation of representation of executions, the affairs relating to data protection and the business of keeping a register. It is particularly important for me to point out here that, in the work of this ministry, there should also be the creation of conditions for the enjoyment of human and minority rights, governed by the Constitution, international documents, as well as the concern of gender equality. I agree with Mr. Jovicic when he says that the minimum number of ministries does not have to be an optimal solution, but we did not say – we want a government of one, two or three ministries. We have a country in which, for example, there's a government with eight ministries. We believe that the government with nine ministries that we are proposing is responding to the precisely established criteria of forming the government, responding to some of our important principles, such as austerity and efficiency, and above all to social needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u395	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u396	The truth is, dear colleague Pavicevic... I'm sorry. The truth is, you may not have read the law properly. Now the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government are splitting up. You probably made a lapus, so you said that according to this law that will follow it is connected. I think it is good to separate the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government for a simple reason because we have a lot of obligations, especially on our next path to the EU. We have a lot of obligations in the department of justice, and we think that the Department of Justice has to commit itself to this business in a decade, and that we leave the development of state and locality to one special body. I think it's kind of the essence of this law, with what we were just talking about in public enterprises, so we couldn't accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u397	On what grounds? (From place, Vladimir Pavicevic: Replica, mentioned me by name. He apologized for the mistake he made. Right after your name, he said, "I'm sorry." There's no basis for replication. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Pavicevic's amendment is not acceptable for several reasons. First of all, areas such as justice on the one hand, i.e. the judiciary and the state and local self-government on the other side are two completely separate areas of social life because the judiciary and the administration are two different functions of state authorities. Since the RS constitution rests on the principle of dividing state authorities into legislative, executive and judicial powers, there is no logic then that these two functions are merged within the same ministry. As for your proposal to bring into the name of the ministry a syntagma of human rights, then it turns out by that logic that only one ministry deals with human rights. Every ministry in the Republic of Serbia has the right and obligation to care for the protection of human rights and freedoms in those areas for which it is responsible. So, not only the Justice Ministry, as you suggest, but all 16 ministries are obliged to care for human rights and freedoms in those areas for which these ministries are responsible. Finally, the fact that you artificially combine several different resistors within a single ministry does not mean that this will lead to the rationalisation of the state administration. On the contrary, it can only lead to an increase in the number of civil servants, i.e. officials in ministries, when you bring together justice, human rights, state administration and local self-government within a single ministry. Imagine, Mr Pavicevic, how many state secretaries it takes, the assistant minister to deal with all these completely different areas of social life. When the government is said in a broader sense, it is not just about the Prime Minister and the ministers. The government is actually an executive government. Your government is also in a broader sense state secretaries and ministerial assistants, etc. When your proposal is analysed in detail, if adopted, and we do not accept it, not that it will not lead to a reduction in the scope of the state administration, but rather lead to an increase in it. Your amendment would cause a counterproduct. Not to save, but to spend extra, which is not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u399	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u400	I'm also reporting for an amendment that my predecessor has already said a lot of what I wanted to say. I think it is absolutely unacceptable to propose now a super ministry that, in addition to justice, state administration and local self-government, will also contain human rights. Remember that at the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic, as well as at the time of the government of Mr. Zivkovic, there was the Ministry of Justice, State Administration and local self-government, remember which number of employees counted such a ministry. Remember how hard it was to work in a ministry like that in the first place. Now you're adding human rights to one of those ministries you're proposing. I'm sorry, but a minister headed by such a resort would have to serve ten assistants and at least ten state secretaries. That would only require additional costs. That would be a more expensive solution than the solutions proposed. I don't know what need to combine things that aren't connected. I especially don't know why human rights are in place. You were the prime minister of the government who had the Ministry of Justice, the state administration and the local self-government, and you are very well aware that this was a very difficult situation for the ministry to bear on the shoulders of all those affairs that were in their portfolio. Imagine adding human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u401	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u402	Since I've been mentioned as a prime minister, and I'm afraid I'm the only man here who's been appointed. It is true that this ministry was what you said and that the ministry was doing great because it had a great minister. Not just that. There's a lot of evidence why it can be together. I don't want to go into a law hearing with you in a minute and 20 seconds. It is, of course, an area where you are absolutely superior to me. In the organization of government work, there are many examples in Europe where they are ministries that are not by name, but are essentially. The justice ministry also includes local self-government and state administration and protection of human rights. Therefore, it is a possible solution. On the other hand, it is true that the minister in such a ministry should have four, five state secretaries, and that is the concept of the government, i.e. a system on reforming the political system and state administration proposed by the New Party. That we have nine ministries, nine serious politicians who will be headed by these ministries. Serious politicians who will take full responsibility for the work of these ministries, while at the level of state secretaries being experts who could continue their work when the government is changed and when the minister is changed and that stability of the work of the state administration is given. So, politicians as ministers who define the government's goals, and experts as people who, in their own knowledge, can, in their experience from the existing potential of state administration, give the best results to achieve these goals. That's how serious companies do it, that's how real governments do it, that's how serious families do it. I don't think there's any reason for that to be an obstacle. Of course, most have the right to their...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u403	Time. Thank you. Time. Olga Batic, you have no right to a replica. You didn't mention it. I listened very carefully. You warned me to use my right a few minutes ago. I listened very carefully. Thank you. He's got a word for it. Vladimir Marinkovic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u404	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the case of this law, the Proposer obviously well evaluated and defined the structure of the state administration itself in a very good way. When it comes to the area of human and minority rights... express the view of the SDPS that good practice should not be changed. [[off microphone]] I will remind my colleagues that there is a Office for Human and Minority Rights, which is conducted in a good and quality way, which brings European laws into line, European legislation very well with domestic ones and that in the field of human and minority rights in the last few years we have achieved very good and recognizable results. Therefore, I also think on behalf of the SDPS I express a clear view that this good practice should not be changed, and, as suggested and predicted, we retain the Office for Human and Minority Rights. Therefore, such a proposal represents only, as Mr Martinovic said, would represent additional costs, increasing the administration and changing which we do not know if it would give sufficient quality and good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u405	On behalf of the 5th and 5th amendments, MPs: Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ivan Karic and Aleksandar Senic together. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u406	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, precisely because of the complexity and importance of agriculture, we are asking that the Ministry of Agriculture exists as an independent ministry and because of the importance of the EU accession process, given the laws and sublaws and everything that should be regulated in the area of agriculture, we believe that this particular important area must be independent. The arguments of the last two years that he was supposed to be with energy proved to be bad. Now these same arguments are only replaced by agriculture. As in the previous two years, environmental protection or that part of protection has failed to control energy and mining probably will not be able to control agriculture either. But to be clear, this proposal for agriculture and environmental protection is far better than the one from 2012, something better than the one from 2013. No matter what we want to try and propose a German model, we as "Green" will be ready to do so and unless you accept these amendments because of the importance of the topic, because of the pre-accession negotiations, because of Chapter 27, let me say, everything we have planned, everything we see as a development opportunity. We see that over the next six months we can help the current government create 10,000 new jobs through the reform of the waste management system, and we can help achieve a minimum of 150m euros, to protect the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u407	Time. Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u408	By amendment. I would very much like all of us to be able to compare with Germany, but we have to go a long way to get into a situation so that we can compare ourselves with some of the EU countries in this way. Therefore, we have certain obligations. Negotiations on chapters 10, 11 and 12 on agriculture have been launched. We will have a situation in the Serbian Parliament in September of implicit and explicit negotiations on the preconditions for opening Chapter 27. Those chapters should go together. We have recommendations from the EU that we need to make this cross-sectoral co-operation and coordination as best and as firm as possible to ensure that agriculture is sustainable. It's just impossible. Another thing, in the past, we had environmental protection related to natural resources, but we also had to do with construction and mining, if you will remember, in some previous construction. Where do you have bigger contaminants today than in construction? Just by applying the energy efficiency measure, only then can we talk about applying environmental protection. When we move on to this part that's about agriculture, it's a question of the survival of our people for the simple reason that we have big food problems today. That's what this government has shown responsibility for forming this concept of the ministry. He needs to be accepted. We need to work on this, European integration and negotiations firmly, and that's not going to work out by one man, because we hear one person here all the time. It will be a large team of people headed by negotiators, such as Mrs Miscevic, but now we will also have a minister without portfolios to deal exclusively with European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u409	Time. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. You have the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u410	It's a business thing. Please grant me the right to replication on the basis of Article 104. I'm advertising Article 104. Not to quote the first part, attitude one...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u411	You're welcome to quote. You have to make a call.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u412	Article 104, paragraph 1, if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is offended about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and function... You've mostly given your word, despite the fact that this condition is not...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u413	Here you go. I don't see what it was an insult to mention your name.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u414	That is to say, the wrong interpretation of his exposure, the MP of the people to whom the presentation refers, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u415	You have two minutes. If you'd answered the line, you'd have your word right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u416	You didn't give me last time a line based on a member I read.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u417	I'm sorry, you can get a line based on the discussion of the previous speaker. Use your two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u418	Thank you. We're here saying that because of the complexity of the Ministry of Agriculture, we don't have enough space to help from the field of environmental development of agriculture. We mentioned organic farming. We also mentioned organic production, some specific plantings, return to autoctonic varieties, and in this sense I also report that I further interpret why there must be a special ministry of agriculture because of this important area, and on the other hand, especially the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Spatial Planning. We estimate that 30,000 people can work in the gray waste collection zone and that it has to be arranged as soon as possible, that the answer to that is the formation of collecting cooperatives and that means employment for 10,000 new jobs. Agriculture is a certain source of pollution. Certainly mining or industry is a little bigger. It turns out that these incompatible ministries shouldn't go together. As a result, we insist that agriculture be a special activity, that environmental protection be a special activity and, of course, in all other areas, environmental protection through agriculture and through spatial planning in cities and construction, energy, forestry, fisheries, industrial production, tourism, traffic, waste management and water management. This does not mean that it can now be with each of these areas, but that it can manage the environment of resources and thus help all these ministries to be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u419	Thank you. National MP Gordana Comic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title and Article 5a be added after article 5. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u420	Thank you. With your permission, I'll use the MP's time after I've used two minutes for the amendment. The content of this amendment is, in fact, the responsibility of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Spatial Planning, since each ministry law implies how to give the Ministry the name itself, and what the ministry will deal with. These are key members of every law. In the text ahead of you, I propose that this ministry perform the tasks of state administration relating to the fundamentals of environmental protection, environmental protection and environmental protection, environmental protection control, environmental protection, the application of the results of scientific and technological research and development in the field of energy and environment, the implementation of the Convention on Public Participation and Access to Information, the right to legal protection in the field of environment, the protection of nature, the protection of air, the protection of ozone, climate change, cross-border pollution of air and water, the protection of water from pollution to prevent the deterioration of the quality of surface and groundwater, the establishment and implementation of the protection of natural continents against the importance of the Republic of Serbia, the setting of environmental conditions in the planning of the site of building facilities, the protection of major chemical accident and radio trafficking in case of chemical disasters, the protection of wastes and wastes, the protection of waste management of wastes and waste management of wastes under the laws, the laws, the law, the law of waste management of waste management of wastes and waste management of wastes, the laws and wastes of wastes, the laws and wastes of wastes, the law, the laws and wastes of wastes and wastes of wastes, the laws and wastes and wastes of wastes, wastes and wastes and wastes and wastes of wastes, wastes, wastes, wastes, wastes, wastes, wastes and wastes and wastes and wastes and wastes and wastes and wastes and wastes and wastes and wastes and wastes of wastes, wastes, wastes, wastes, wastes, wastes, wastes and wastes and wastes and waste and waste and waste and wastes, wastes, wastes, wastes and waste and waste and wastes, and waste and wastes, wastes, and waste and wastes, and wastes. (President: Time, thank you. I asked you to let me use the time of the parliamentary group. (President: Please. I thank you. So, the way the regulations of the environmental protection system were introduced into the legal regulation of our country was, thanks to good work, professional work and the hard work of people from various political parties, from the academic community, from the non-governmental sector, the various ministers I had the pleasure of working with, by Minister Zoran Mihajlovic, who led again in the past meeting a ministry that had both energy and environmental protection in the past two years with the reconstruction of the Government and the amendment of the Ministry Act, the area itself was divided into at least three ministries, one of which was agriculture. I regret to say that in the previous session, it was at least done to improve and protect the environment and that there were many misunderstandings about what to laugh about and what not to do when it comes to the environmental protection system. That's why I'm reading these responsibilities, because it's important that we know when we vote for or against one of the laws, what it actually says, not what it says about writing or how it's interpreted. Minister Oliver Dulic, as well as Minister Aleksandar Popovic and Minister Angelka Mihajlov, have done, each part of their obligations to build and improve the environment, working in various ministries. Why do I mention a series of several ministers from several governments when it comes to this area? Because it's the core of environmental protection. Because it is an area in which, in mature political societies, political entrenchedness, political glares, political indiscretion, political populism and political ignorance, because everyone has the agreement that the objectives, if the state has already decided to pass the Law on the system of environmental protection, are too large to be used for anything other than working together. I also hope for this joint work in the future Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, regardless of how firm I am in the belief that the proposal I have made is better for all of us. There will be opportunities on the Committee on Environmental Protection, as well as on the Committee on European Integration, that in less than a month's time, the future minister submits a three-month report, as ministers in the previous government have made it a little easier to understand their commitment to submit three-month reports on their work, so there have been delays, and now we have only a delay since the new minister, by nature of things, will have to present to us the work of another minister, but this is the kind of work, so that the new minister or minister will be welcomed with knowledge from the environmental protection system and with very focused and detailed questions about what is going on. In previous meetings and the Committee on Environmental Protection has done a great job thanks to the efforts of all MPs and all parliamentary groups. I must mention the president in the former assembly, MPs Milic Vojić Markovic, who devoted and with knowledge led the board and did useful things, as did all the board members. I end up with whoever is chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection, having a kind of institutional memory of the jobs that have been done. Whoever dares to ignore institutional memory, on behalf of the perception of a policy that is in conflict with institutional memory, or because of a policy that he wants only to create a good impression, with a demand to listen to what is said, and not what is done, will cause common harm to everyone, and primarily to whoever he thinks he is working for, not using the institutional memory of this National Assembly. The big job is in front of the board and in front of this ministry in all responsibilities since June, and I will be pleased to remind many of us, who have shared the view that agriculture and environmental protection are excellent in one ministry, I will be pleased to remind many of us of the first obstacle, when it turns out to be wrong, that together we can come up with a better way for the job to be done, that the environment is improved, and that we do not enter into a painful process of amending and supplementing the Ministry Act. With the hope that we will have the awareness that environmental protection is above the usual political issues, I would like to thank you for the patience that you have heard from the president, that is, the chairman now, that is, the opportunity to combine time separately for the amendment and the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u421	Thank you. On behalf of the 6th and 6th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u422	Thank you. This is an amendment aimed only at aligning the text in the amendment to Article 2 with regard to the description of activity, only renumberation. The interior ministry has been in one other member in the draft of this law. Of course, there were no significant changes in it, and thus another counter argument, namely a non-argument, was raised, the wrong argument that our proposal for a resolution of the Ministry Act was due only to the desire to get some political promotion. No, of course, this ministry has to stay the way it is in the bill. It's totally acceptable for the New Party. The interior ministry must always be an independent unit, with no connection to any other jurisdiction. It is true that it gives, someone mentioned, a major contribution to the protection of human rights and how it works and how it fights crime and how it does not abuse at various levels of its jurisdiction. I hope the members of the Ministry of the Interior, and especially the police, will have a little more luck with the minister than it has been in the last ten years. But if the announcements are correct about the human solution, I'm afraid my hopes are in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u423	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u424	A fellow chairman, an injured member of 107. I do not think it is correct for Mr Zoran Zivkovic, who served as interior minister, to express himself uglyly about the candidate for the new interior minister. On the other hand, since they have just insisted, he and his counterpart Pavicevic are talking about what the agenda topic is, the subject of the agenda are amendments to the draft legislation on ministries. Tomorrow, if he likes it or doesn't like the candidate for Home Secretary, let him talk about it, but today he can't talk about a candidate for Home Secretary, and in particular he can't give personal qualifications about a candidate for Home Secretary someone who was Prime Minister at a time when more than 10,000 people were arrested in action, and then it turns out that these people were arrested without a legal basis, and then the state of Serbia had to pay millions of dinars in damages to unjustly arrested persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u425	Thank you. I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt. I did not notice, and I did not get the impression that my colleague Zivkovic thus addressed and thus expressed his voice on the candidate for the future interior minister. I'm asking you, do you want the National Assembly to come forward on your proposal? (No) The word has been made by counterpart Vladimir Djukanovic, after the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u426	I am advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure in Article 104, where it is said that if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insolently expressing himself about a National MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. I just have to point out that Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic is still an MP in this Assembly, and Mr. Zivkovic has in some way made a rather inappropriate turn at Mr. Stefanovic's expense, although he is not present here. I really wouldn't say it like that, Mr. Stefanovic took the place where you're sitting really outstandingly, regained citizens' trust in the National Assembly at a good percentage and made certain savings and I believe he'll really be a good interior minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u427	Thank you. As in the previous case, I believe that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken, because I must stress that I would have reported the word that by any chance I have assessed that any insult to the People's MP, still current Mr. Neboja Stefanovic. I'm asking you, do you want the Parliament to make a statement on this in Voting Day? (No) The word is a colleague of Borislav Stefanovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u428	I'm reporting for an officer. 106, 107 and 108. Mr. Chairman, there is, in the last two hours, a strange habit of fellow Members of the People, and especially those who are either with a huge break and have come or come here for the first time, that they are very restrictively interpreting what the opposition may or may not say, and then, depending on who is the chairman, we from the opposition need those famous vaginas to measure the word who will tell who here. I have no intention of defending anyone, but my colleague Zivkovic said he was afraid for the Interior Ministry when he saw who the candidate was. Now someone is interpreting it as an extremely offensive exposure. The same MP came out yesterday and told reporters that I was talking about the physionomy of someone's face, which absolutely doesn't exist, let him check in the stenogram, since the truth wouldn't have guessed that he was clashing with her on the street. Please make sure that if we really bring this up right now that we're talking -- we can't talk out of context, we can't tell who's thinking, we can just talk about a specific member and what's in it, we'll soon become, I'm afraid, the ideal of some people in this room, and that's the North Korean Assembly. Make sure you don't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u429	Thank you. I believe that I did not violate the Rules of Procedure and that, as well as the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I want the dialogue to be opened and that the simple exchange of arguments between MPs runs in one quality and democratic way. You don't want to? (No) The word is a colleague of Zoran Zivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u430	I'm reporting by article 107, and these are offensive terms. I think a few SNS colleagues spoke very negatively about their colleague Nebojsa Stefanovic and my concern for the work of the Ministry of the Interior have linked with their negative relationship with their colleague, which I think you must prevent. I didn't mention anyone's name in my presentation, nor did I mention who I think he'd be running for Home Secretary. As far as I know, there is no document in the procedure in this House that contains the names of the candidates. Therefore, you cannot draw such conclusions. Finally, for one lawyer whom I heard was a student of the generation or of all time or whatever, you would have to know that only 4,000 people were arrested in the "Sabbe" action, that 5,000 criminal charges were filed, that they were brought in for interviewing 12,000 people, that thousands of final executive verdicts were ruled, and that the number of those who made compensation for allegedly, I repeat, allegedly illegally detaining and retaining less than statistics five years ago was "Sablje" and ten years after "Sablje". So last year, more people were entitled to compensation for misrepresentation than it was in 2003. Apparently, because those who got it and were tied to "Sablja", they only got it because their lawyer was then the minister of justice. Otherwise they wouldn't be able to get that compensation. All who were arrested at Sablja, with two or three exceptions, deserve to be arrested, detained and sentenced.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u431	Thank you. The word is from counterpart Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u432	The Honorable Chairman, the Rules of Procedure in Rule 103, where it is said nicely that the MP cannot point to an injury to the conduct of the National Assembly president if it is already indicated. I'll remind you, Mr. Zivkovic pointed out a violation of article 107, which was already indicated here. Of course, I would ask you to take care of those who in one indirect way address other MPs, especially when they talk about the truth. The citizens of this truth, who's talking, have assessed it in the elections. They are where they are, and the SNS parliamentary group is on 158 terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u433	Thank you. I will remind you only of a member of the Rules of Procedure who says that I am obliged as chairman of the National Assembly to warn fellow Members who do not have the right to directly address the MPs, anything else is an assessment of who is chairing the National Assembly. Therefore, I believe that I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, and I suggest that, if you wish, the National Assembly is to be declared on your proposal in the voting day. No, I don't. Thank you. By amendment, MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u434	To get back to the agenda point, I'm not going to talk about whether court rulings are alleged or not, nor am I going to comment on why someone, for various reasons, can be afraid of why someone is a candidate for Home Secretary, or be a Home Secretary. There are various fears in people, so I don't consider myself competent to talk about it. I'll just say that I'm against and, of course, the entire parliamentary group of this amendment, and I'm staying in the position that this debate that took place after the amendment was explained. Because if you explain the amendment and then, in the course of the amendment, you comment on the election of the interior minister, that means that your goal was to make up for what you went through in the elections, and by writing a large number of amendments, that you can speak today, because tomorrow these same MPs will only have five minutes to talk about the government's election. Then let's go today, over 30 amendments submitted, to make up for it. That's my impression, maybe I'm wrong, maybe it's trivial, but the citizens of Serbia, of course, as they have so far appreciated, will appreciate this and this way of work. We in the SNS will deal with the essence and problems of Serbia's citizens and solve them in order to be much closer to joining the EU in four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u435	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear that the proposed amendment, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, will not be adopted today, and the SNS will not support its amendment. But I want to call him, given his findings expressed by concern about the future of the interior ministry, that there is no need for him to express concern for such a thing, that Mr Stefanovic will certainly be better and more dignifiedly run by the interior ministry. In any case, it's better than you led that ministry on a federal level when you were a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u437	Thank you. Replica, colleague Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u438	This is what I'm saying very seriously right now, without any wrong intentions, you can hear very little. So I don't hear much of the speakers here, and I'd like the technical service to see what's going on with that. From what I understand, you said that Mr. Stefanovic, whom I did not mention, would once again tell you, in the capacity of the future interior minister, that he would perform this function better than I did. That's impossible, that's absolutely impossible. First of all, if you study it a little bit, if you turn yourself in to reading, which is one good thing and it doesn't hurt, and it knows that if someone does it seriously, I was never the minister of the interior of the Republic of Serbia, but I was the federal interior minister. Fortunately last, so no one can be a better federal interior minister than me, at least because I was last. As for the state of affairs at the Home Office, I think that should be a concern for all of us here. In the past ten years, the state of the ministry has not been well, there have been a lot of bad things. In your campaigns, you pointed out a part of which was fully justified by the bad things that marked the ministry's work where it was that the minister had practically not managed his ministry, that he could not have appointed his own driver, let alone someone else, that the director had more authority than the minister, that the director was tied to another post as Head of State, Prime Minister, and not to the post of Minister. It's all part of our past. Finally, the cops we see on the street in uniform and I don't brag about it, I'm just saying how bad it is, the last time they got their clothes and shoes in 2003, and the last time they got serious police supplies was in 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u439	I think we have to stop this because it threatens to turn this debate into a debate about Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic. Please close this circle of replicas. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. We're talking about Amanda and I wouldn't want to, since Mr. Stefanovic isn't here, if this conversation were about talking about him as a candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have made myself very clear and fenced and used the term "on the federal level" at the end. So, the interior minister at the federal level. I didn't want to come back on purpose, or remind you of your role on the republican level when you were prime minister. I think the consequences of your role all felt.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u441	Please do not address the MP directly. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u442	The Honorable Chairman, thank you. I won't blame you for the fact that some MPs and colleagues use the violation of the Rules of Procedure as replicas. I respect your tolerance towards the opposition. As for the amendments and the MUP amendment, I would understand, but the promoter is difficult. I mean, I'm a man who's remembered for a long time, so I remember the actions of the promoter. More than 10,000 people have been arrested in Sabrelja, only 3,000 criminal charges have been filed, and that is why this amendment is not acceptable to me. Someone who wants to edit and propose how to arrange the MIP would have had to have impeccable credibility, but someone who arrested 10,000 people from whom only 3,000 criminal charges were filed, he should confess, and we are witnesses, especially us older, in that time that someone 7,000 times leg, someone without reason, because there was no criminal charges later, broke down the door, scared the family, scared the kids, arrested him, arrested him, and that there were no criminal charges. Of these 3,000 criminal charges, I'd like one of my colleagues to explain to me how many of these criminal charges have been prosecuted until the end. Then we'd see the credibility of the promoter. He's talking about the credibility of the promoter and that's...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u443	Please, colleague Risticevic, let's get back to the amendment story. This is not a talk about "Sablja". Please return to the amendment and introduce the session into one normal stream.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u444	I'm talking about the amendment. So, I wouldn't want this amendment to change anything in this law because I remember those times. It happened to me that they killed my prime minister. The promoter was at that time... (President: Time.) Hold on, I'm using the MP's time. He was a federal security minister at the time. (President: Do you agree to use that time? That's not what you're asking. Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure to ask? That's understood. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure will the chairman ask the Head of Parliament if I have the right to speak and to use the time of the parliamentary group. As soon as I sign up, I'm using the MP's time group, otherwise I'm not the amendment promoter. I remember those times and remember that the prime minister was killed and I know that someone was involved in security matters. But even worse when he became prime minister of the republican minister to whom the prime minister was killed he did not replace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u445	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. By hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u446	Thank you, Chairman. I am advertising the violation of Rule 106 of Rule 1 – the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The previous speaker reported that he was talking about the amendment. You also warned him to talk about the amendment. I did not know that this amendment was contained, nor was the "Sabbe" action, nor was the number of people detained in the "Sabbe" action, nor the number of criminal charges filed, nor the number of proceedings processed, nor was the explanation of the amendments, nor was the amendment talking about the murder of Dr Zoran Djindjic's premium, nor the federal interior minister, and I ask that the future of every MP who reports after the amendment, then speaks exclusively of the amendment, rather than using time to talk about anything, because we do not have a number of points on the agenda, but we know what is being discussed today and this represents a debate in particular. On the other hand, the Rules of Procedure and that, in Article 96, are foreseen that someone has the right to speak. The heads of the parliamentary groups are just there to be those who would give authority to the MPs whether they can use time or cannot use the time of the parliamentary group, so that the head of the parliamentary group is asked and how many minutes they will receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u447	I agree with you, colleague Batic, and as you could see, I have warned MP Marijan Risticevic to return his discussion to the section of what defines the amendment by the promoter, Mr Zoran Zivkovic. I cannot accept that I have broken the Rules of Procedure, and I ask you, are you in favour of giving the National Assembly a statement on this proposal in the voting day? Yeah. Thank you. Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u448	I think it's really high time to put order in today's session. I don't mind it, against any failures, frightful or such attempts by anyone to insult me, especially if it comes from across the street, especially from individual MPs. Those attempts of insults are compliments to me, I'm sorry. Every time you mention "Sabbe" action, thank you. I'm proud of it, every one brought in by 12,000, every one held in custody of 3,800, every one against whom 5,000 criminal charges have been filed, for each of the 30 murders solved, 20 and some murders in an attempt, millions of rounds of ammunition, tons of drugs, all of what 1,000 thunderstorms that happened in the last two years can't even replace with 1%, but I don't think that has anything to do with the subject that we're talking about here. Finally, just to inform the public, the SMUP was not concerned with protecting individuals at the republican level, that's one thing. The second thing, Minister of the Ministry of Interior was not able to replace the prime minister as well as today, but only the Assembly, and it seems to me that someone who was flirting on the subject had just been close to parliament and voted for the same minister's election twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u449	Thank you. Please don't use the terms you just used in the future. Even I didn’t understand the term “fleet, ” that’s my assessment. Please don't throw away. We're closing a circle of replicas. Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u450	To help you, Mr. Chairman, and to get out, you see, these are the kind of reactions resulting from the violation of Articles 106 and 107. What did you do wrong, Mr. Chairman? You are now introducing a new trend in the Assembly and now some MPs from the ruling majority, some veterans, some airmen think it is a great thing to use the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, to use the agenda, and to talk about the tenth thing and to see how much you can do to them now, without warning to let them speak. I think this is very important for you, but it's also very important for the Assembly. If you allow without warning that, within this point of the agenda, we have this amendment, and then the story of "Sablja" begins and that this is a disaster of action, as the previous colleagues have said, I only appeal to you, that MPs will always try to do. I appeal to you and ask you not to be as you have now done, to point out, so he continues on his own, but, as according to the opposition, not you personally, and Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic hastily, in three seconds, twice says a warning and away from the session. So, you can't appeal, and he keeps doing the old thing and you say, "I told him." What you told him doesn't touch him, understand? He's thinking that "Sabela" was a criminal action. So he doesn't understand what you're saying. Since he doesn't understand, you have to give him a warning. If you don't want to give him a warning, then you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. Look, what we're doing here, everybody can start doing it like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u451	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u452	I'm done. Just now, a colleague has stood up who doesn't know what the Assembly is yet, has spread his arms and stories to the messenger, and you don't react. We were just scared.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u453	I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. As you could see, I warned the MP and returned the session to its course, of course, in the coming period a soundly reasoned debate between the MPs. According to the Rules of Procedure, counterpart Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u454	I'm advertising a breach of Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure. - a reminder is given to the People's Messenger if he uses swearing and offensive expressions. Mr. Chairman, I really must commend you for in some way pointing to the person who boasts over the period when people have lost their right to an attorney, and it was indeed a period worse than the time of Pinochet. You had to give him a warning, because he really insulted all those people, who don't give God or force of opportunity, have a speech flaw, and those are many in Serbia. So you had to give him a warning, and you didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u455	I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. I have warned of the use of the People's MP's term and I believe that you can make a statement as to whether the National Assembly should declare your proposal in the day of the vote? Yes, thank you. Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u456	Mr. Chairman, I've been looking for a replica...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u457	You can't get a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u458	Hold on, Article 104(1). - if, in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly, the MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group is offended, stating his name and name and function, or incorrectly interpreting his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. One of the previous speakers said, pointed his hand at me and said that the previous speaker was something “flying. ” In doing so, he also hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, Article 107 of attitude 1 because he made one notorious lie. He said the president of the government doesn't change the police minister, he can't replace him, it's what MPs do. For the sake of the truth and the dignity of the Assembly, I must remind you that, when the prime minister dies, God forbid, the entire government falls, and that the minister of police remains in the next government proposed by this very prime minister and became Prime Minister. Not that he didn't replace him, but he suggested that he be the minister of police again. Why? I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u459	I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure, for the reason that the MP you have alluded to has not directly addressed any of the MPs, and you have the right to vote in the day of the vote, please do not throw yourself out of place and listen to me, say that the National Assembly will plead on this proposal?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u460	I just wanted to cut short, I said – I'm not looking, I wasn't throwing away.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u461	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the next speaker in the Rules of Procedure, I would like to appeal to the MPs to introduce a session in one order and continue to work on the amendments and in the best possible way to bring this discussion into play and to reach the best possible solutions and laws that will be better. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u462	In order to introduce order, since I noticed some of the woods during the session and I'd like to appeal to Article 158. Look at article 158. All of them. This is about discussion in detail. The amendment promoter has the right to speak for two minutes, the parliamentary group has its time. The debate in particular never provides a list of MPs who speak, and every MP has the right to read Article 158, it does not say anything that there is no, but only what time of the parliamentary group, and until now, parliamentary practice has been that every MP has the right to report and to speak about it and not to interrupt, as was the case before. I was amazed when my colleague Tomic was interrupted after two minutes, and she was not an applicant for the amendment. So, the applicant of the amendment speaks for two minutes, the MP club is wasting its time. Please introduce order. That's how you do it. We just heard from the Rules of Procedure again that there should be authority. It's never been until now... It's for discussion in principle, and for discussion in particular, there's never been a list delivered. Believe me, if the list was delivered, Mr. Marijan Risticevic would be on the list, if he were one of the authorized and involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u463	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure in this case. I didn't say you broke it, I was just suggesting. ) Thank you for the suggestion anyway. National MP Dr Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u464	The President-in-Office, members 106 and 107, as well as a member relating to the possibility, namely the authority of the chairman to interrupt the session and to discuss the conditions for normal work with the heads of parliament. I think the conditions are met. This does not look like a parliamentary session that should enjoy the reputation you have advocated. Now I see that even within the ruling coalition there is no unity by whether you are properly running the session. There's multiple advertising of the Rules of Procedure, and there's no talking about the subject. I think some MPs took advantage of today's Saturday as a day when people are home watching TV, and it's not a good time, so they're taking advantage of the opportunity to promote themselves. I don't think this is a good promotion of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and that you are the most responsible for not disrupting the Parliament's reputation. If this continues, I invite you to interrupt the session and call for a meeting of the heads of parliament to agree on a follow-up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u465	Thank you. I'll take into account the decision you've proposed. I believe that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken, and I believe that this is just one exchange of arguments between the MPs who belong to the positional and opposition parties, nothing unusual, so we will continue, in accordance with my decision, to continue such a reasoned debate until the end of this session. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Are you advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexander Jovičić, from the post: I responded by amendment. I'm sorry. National MP Olga Batic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u466	Thank you. Chairman, I know you're a gentleman, as well as a colleague, Jovicic, so you gave the lady your word. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure and several members - Article 105, Article 27, Article 109. First, Article 105, which regulates the maintenance of order at the session. You just said - I appeal to you to introduce order. You cannot appeal to us as messengers of the people, for you are as chairman, who is obliged to take care of the order of the sitting. Secondly, you've allowed the advertising of the Rules of Procedure to be done here. One of the predecessors said earlier – so I did not advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I only suggested, and you as chairman say – I accept the suggestion. You see, the Rules of Procedure are not advertised for suggestion, but for the injury that only you can do, and not by the MPs. After all, if you can't provide working conditions, and in accordance with Article 109, then start making warnings, as the president of the National Assembly did in the last session, and we've worked great. After all, those fines aren't that terrible. People's MPs are disciplined, money goes to the Solidarity Fund, and it's meant for those who need it, and to bring it into progress, so I ask you to... It's been broken more than once here. In fact, the Rules of Procedure are being broken all day, and I agree with Mr. Janko Veselinović's proposal to interrupt the session, because all the conditions for such a thing have been created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u467	Thank you. I am not a supporter of punishment, which does not mean that if conditions are created for this, I will not apply it because as the chairman of the Rules of Procedure it gives me the right. I believe that I did not violate the Rules of Procedure in this case, and I did not even appeal to the MPs to introduce order in the National Assembly, but to do everything possible to make the debate constructive and to return to the topic, which of them, you will agree, and their discussions and direction of action depends. Can you ask the National Assembly to make a statement on your proposal in the day of the vote? (Olgica Batić, from the place: I want to. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u468	I'm reporting for the amendment. Dear chairman, MPs, of course, that the SNS will not support Mr Zoran Zivkovic and Pavicevic's proposal. We believe that the future ministry and future Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic will do their job responsibly and honestly and the SNS has shown responsibility when we talk about fighting corruption and organised crime. The Serbian Progressive Party wants to introduce a system in this country where it will know who is doing what and how it works, and those who have worked against the law will have to respond against Serbian citizens. It will be one ministry that will be effective, quick, that will solve problems. We hope that the future minister will not have a situation in which he will speak can't or won't. I'm sure he'll always deal with citizens' problems. On the other hand, Mr. Zivkovic said earlier that he was afraid that the interior ministry would work. Depending on what aspect we're looking at, maybe that fear is justifiable. So we'll let time show its own. One more thing. I don't understand, in addition to your proposals for the ministries, why didn't you suggest that there was a Ministry of Culture and Information, since we know what you were doing before the election campaign? Obviously culture doesn't matter to you at all and is missing in your case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u469	National MP Zoran Zivkovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u470	Thank you. Since this little course of political intolerance continues, then I will not enter that discussion. The Ministry of Culture is scheduled. The Ministry of Information exists only in countries that have a problem with freedom of speech. It was never in our visor, nor with any desire for the state to deal with it. Just to warn all the speakers who said they were against this amendment. It's the same text from word to word, from letter to letter, with all points and points as in the proposal made by the parliamentary majority, it's just prenumeration. So you said this was wrong? Ask Proposer Arsic why it is not a good text. The text is exactly the same. What would the Serbs say, copyright-pate variant completely. So read it a little bit. You might want to see what they're talking about. As for the fear of the work of the MUP, young colleague, I am in politics more...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u471	Please do not address the MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u472	Young colleagues, I've been in politics for over 20 years. For the first time in 1994, I entered this home, came out in 1997, was in various positions, changed many regimes, various police ministers, information and similar witnesses, when those who abused the state killed their political opponents... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u473	Time, Mr. Zivkovic National MP Alexander Jovicic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u474	As for the Ministry of Information, we knew the times when there was also the Information Bureau that censored everything that was written about this country and where orders were given that the citizens could not know what was true. But again, sir, with years of age and a great experience of 20 years, which has left us with the only bitterness that citizens of Serbia can see today, because we inherited Serbia in which the economy was completely destroyed, the economy of all of us Serbian citizens, and one of whom has made progress with various subsidies, loans that they never had to repay again. I like to drink wine, too, and I like to hang out, but you know how, when you earn something with your honest work and when you finally don't do something at the expense of Serbian citizens, then your experience will really be of some importance and we'll be able to talk about it. At this point, there is only a bitter experience left that leaves a huge hole in the budget, along with other colleagues from those days when you were a minister or prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u475	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica once again.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u476	So, at a time when I was prime minister and before that, the federal interior minister this state was paying back its debts. The total foreign debt was then reduced by six billion and some euros, which is one data. Employment was higher than it is now. There were real, serious investments in tender privatisation and greenfield investments, the only one in Serbia's history since then and before today, and take a look at it, read it. The third time, I repeat, it's very good. Try not to be dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u477	Please, Ambassador Zivkovic, just don't speak directly to the MP, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u478	It's nothing direct. You know me, so if I did it directly?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u479	Of course, I've known you a long time. Please just stick to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u480	There was once a Ministry of Information in this country, as I recall, over the last twenty years. At a time when there was this ministry, which had its minister, who is the prime minister for the new government of Serbia, Slavko Curuvija was killed and then sacrificed journalists and workers in RTS were only reminders.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u481	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that, apparently, a colleague of the amendment, when it comes to the Ministry Act, has a problem. It's not my fault that while he was Prime Minister, there was an emergency, which was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court's decision. It is not my fault that this unconstitutional decision has been brought against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by many people who were to serve their sentences. The Republic of Serbia has quite a lot of compensation requirements, but this state of emergency, regardless of what state was in the state, was a crime against democracy. They were then even suspended, and later tried to introduce it as a practice to ban the transfer of the session of the Serbian Parliament, as if MPs were going to carry out a coup. What are you talking about? During the state of emergency, Sartid was sold. Someone says it was sold by a bankruptcy court. Yes, but not the one in Pogorevec who was in charge, but the one in Belgrade who was not in charge. Only someone from your government could have ordered that. What about the Agency for Rehabilitation, Liquidation and Banks Banks, which for this Sartid, wrote off all the debts that banks could do and that could be liquidated, wrote off all the debts to privatise and counterdate both you as a member of the Government and the one you're asking to be director of that agency you're not responding to? That's a billion dollars.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u483	Time. Thank you. I've been notified, seven replicas, twice between you. You don't have the right to a replica anymore. Pursuant to Article 104, the President shall decide on the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2. There's no replica. We're going back to the session agenda. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ivan Karic and Aleksandar Senic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u484	Thank you. Dear Presidents, dear colleagues and colleagues, this amendment refers to space. The space really is the environment and the planning of space is of extraordinary ecological importance. That is why we have singled out spatial planning from this ministry and we have made an effort to propose the creation of a new ministry, which is the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Spatial Planning, precisely with desire, and that is what my predecessors have said, if we change form, whether it will be 16 or 17 ministries, it is more important to us than the form. That's why we're asking here to change the essence, because it's important, and we're going to formally increase the number of ministries. If we don't have a special Ministry of Environmental Protection, we'll catch up and water agricultural areas with fourth-class water. We're not cleaning up industrial and municipal waste. We will have, unfortunately, public utility companies of local environments that are not involved in the waste collection and recycling system. We'll still have 30,000 citizens who are employed in the gray waste management zone. We'll have imports and exports of waste left to the black market. That's what my colleagues were talking about, both from the position and the opposition. The sooner we should work on a new waste management law, which still hasn't been adopted, and what's very important, we won't have just 15% of the recycling packaging waste, but that number has to be 60, 70, or 80%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u485	The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u486	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, our proposal is that article 7 and the name above article 7 be changed. I'd just like to explain why we have this attitude. We have a specific situation here, as well as in the previous amendment and in the member. Therefore, Mr Arsic's proposal of the Ministry Act implies that there are 16 ministries of the future government, and since our proposal implies that there are nine ministries, then it is necessary to carry out a kind of movement when it comes to the content of members of the Ministry Act, in order for our proposals to be harmonised well. So, this amendment concerns the Ministry of Defense. The text of this amendment is in this section that is changing, compared to the members, with what came from Mr Arsic. I'd just like to add two things. One thing is that there is not a single criterion that we can take here for an argument to this Ministry of Defense, based on which we could conclude that there should be no Ministry of Defense in Serbia. If we take this historic criterion, simply, it is an old ministry, there is a living criterion, we have to edit our country, and even in this area, and we agree with the content of your Article 12, or Article 12 proposed by Mr Arsic, we only suggest that this member be relocated and positioned in the Proposal for a Law on Ministries as a Article 7. I just need one very brief addition. To participate well in this debate on amendments, we need to read all the amendments. And this suggestion of mine is directed towards Mr. Jovici. I just want to tell him that our proposal implies that there is a Ministry of Education, Science and Culture, and that is foreseen as point 9, or Ministry number nine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u487	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Ivan Karic and Aleksandar Senic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u488	Thank you. We have here suggested that the Ministry of Energy and Mining should separate some of the natural resources and join into a new unique Ministry of Environment Protection, Natural Resources and Spatial Planning with the desire to raise the area of protected areas in Serbia from 520,000 hectares to a global and European level, to say that there is insufficient planning and strategic exploitation of natural resource management activities and natural resources and land, and that with one good strategy, through one new ministry, we manage these systems in the best possible way. What is also important is that over the next six months, if we had one special ministry, we can guarantee 10,000 new jobs, first of all, in the area of waste management, and that 150m euros in direct investments in the field of environmental protection, renewable energy sources and the green economy can be allowed. What the UN estimates for the next 20 years is that only green energy investments will exceed $350 billion, while $200 billion will be invested in the development and greening of the traffic sector, $134 billion in the construction and tourism sector and more than $100 billion in waste and water management plans, and $76 billion to increase industrial efficiency. That's why it means green economies, green economies, and that's why all these amendments of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u489	The names above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u490	Thank you, President. This is one of the essential amendments where, as you have had the opportunity to see, we propose the Ministry of Agriculture, environmental protection and spatial planning. We have heard more concepts, more ways to look at this area, and of course everyone has the right to defend their relationship with it, but the idea of putting these three responsibilities into one ministry is that such a solution is best co-ordination between these three important segments of society. We've had a lot of opportunities both individually and as citizens, and as politicians, businessmen to meet the situation that about certain things that are related to construction, the Ministry of Environmental Protection is returning you, sending you to a counter at the Ministry of Construction, planning or not talking about agriculture, it's an even worse case. If it were in one ministry, whose head, means one of these nine, would be a responsible politician, meaning not someone who fell from this branch or that branch, but a real politician, I'm not talking about any of the ministers so far in the future to make it clear to you, and that underneath it we have three state secretaries, one for agriculture, one for environmental protection, one for spatial planning, with all the services, with everything that the current ministries are doing, we would have a situation where we have one working together on the same thing. It would prevent one ministry from playing with other ping-pong with people, with clients who want to get this or that license, confirmation, consent or anything. It would make a very fast concept... . (President: Time, I apologize, two minutes.) )......................................................................................................... . which is now in a weak way trying to replace this office for quick answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u491	The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u492	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, the SNS has been talking about this problem for more than two years, and this concept of the government is trying to solve in the most efficient way possible by forming a quick response administration within the Ministry of Economy. Why? Because this is what all relevant entities in the country have presented as a major problem, and this is practically too much of the documentation needed to obtain a building permit, which is one of the conditions, in fact, decisions that investors are making whether to access investment in Serbia or not. Such part of the proposal, which has been given through this amendment, has simply been adopted through the Management for a Quick Response that says that it would take part in the process of exercising the right to build, as well as other tasks of a certain law, all ministries with all their solutions will have to give this administration a quick answer to give certain solutions for obtaining a building permit within a maximum effective time frame according to the legal provisions. I think this amendment of yours may be a good attempt to draw attention to this subject, but it's just that there's been a lot of talk about this, a lot of talk, and it's kind of a separate problem that you've put through your amendment proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u493	On behalf of members of the 9th and Article 9th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u494	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed presidents of the National Assembly, all of our amendments, including this to Article 9, are aimed at discussing today whether it is possible to make as effective as possible, a more thrift government that will be formed on the basis of the correctly established criteria. Our amendments form part of a single continent. This amendment to Article 9 is, for example, very important to me. It implies that the areas submitted by the draft ministry law by Mr Arsic are joined by areas that, according to your proposal, are located in two ministries: the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Mining and Energy. Our proposal is that in the government of Serbia, which we hope to quickly form, there is a ministry that will be called the Ministry of Infrastructure and Natural Resources, that there are jobs within this ministry concerning traffic, construction and urbanism, natural resources in the field of energy, in the area of mining and other natural resources, as well as in the area of telecommunications, so that all these jobs become part of this ministry, therefore, which would be called the Ministry of Infrastructure and Natural Resources. We believe that such a well-organized ministry, which would cover all these jobs, I think, would undermine what our criteria are today, primarily efficiency and austerity in the work of the future government and its structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u495	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 132 MPs of the SNS parliamentary group. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is based on Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected this amendment, and the rejected amendment, according to Article 4, cannot be discussed and are not voted on. National MP Dr Gordana Zoric submitted to the 9th amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The names above Articles 10 and 10 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. (From place, Zoran Zivkovic: You did not ask if anyone wanted a word. No, you don't. You're required to sign up. This is where it comes out in the system. (From the city, Zoran Zivkovic: I have a reminder. ) Reminder, you know it's a reminder. I'll keep that in mind next time. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 10. At its meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment is an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? Nobody. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Vučković. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Gordana Komic, without reminding the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u496	I'm using the MP's time group. In addition to the amendment tabled by counterpart Natasa Vukkovic, which is said to be in Article 10, which is added to the words "preparation of rules on human and minority rights", they are deleted. This amendment speaks more of how used attitude we refer to amendments than who signed them, and not about what their content is, except for the obvious course of this debate, where many of us don't even read the content of the amendments, and then some of us who read or read, we see that the discussion is completely different from what is written in the papers. It is no longer a time when it will flow easily and simply during the debate. On behalf of the People's Parliament and by agreeing with its amendment, I propose that in the day of voting, the National Assembly, by a majority of votes, make a positive statement on this amendment. If we carefully read what it refers to, we will see that it is in favour of the text that exists in Article 10(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u497	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u498	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, honourable presidents, we have noticed that in the proposal for a law on ministries submitted by Mr. Arsic there are three ministries within which there are specific areas that we believe should be all part of the affairs that will be dealt with by one ministry. I'll tell you who these are, the Ministry of Education and Science exists according to this proposal as special, there is the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Culture and Information. Our proposal is that the ministry that should deal with all these affairs be the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture. In the argument of one of the previous amendments to one of the members of the draft ministry law, the argument that came from the assembly majority, when we talked about human rights, was that it should not be singled out as a special area, that it is located everywhere in all ministries, in all areas. For example, I now put this concept of human rights against these coins that exist here and have provided a place in special ministries, such as information, sport, youth, etc. We believe that each of these categories, the areas are important, both youth and sport, but it is not necessary for each of these categories to be inserted into some special ministries, but for the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture to be able, if well organized, to do the work of the work in all these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u499	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u500	I'm reporting for the amendment, all of this would be, the Honorable Chairman, very nice, but we have to understand, if we're defined as going to the EU, there are certain areas where you have to simply have a ministry and you can't interfere, which the people would say "grandmothers and frogs" and now put into the same ministry and sports and youth and culture and information, or as we just heard traffic and energy. It is simply some areas that are particularly isolated as a whole, and indeed for them there must be ministries and therefore such amendments are not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u501	Vladimir Pavicevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u502	I'm glad we have one discussion by the congregation majority. When we talk about it...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u503	Excuse me, on what basis did you report for the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u504	I answered on the basis of article 158. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u505	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, you must explain to me...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u506	No, the replica, because that's where it says that MPs both in debate and in detail...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u507	You can only call this time if you're going to waste the time you have, five minutes, no one mentioned you, but you're wasting that time of five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u508	Thank you, there's no dilemma, I'm wasting that time. What was said here? It is said here that there are some standards that some people in EU member states adhere to, but I must remind here that in countries that are EU members, for example. Hungary, there are eight ministries, and there was no argument there, come on now, don't make it all in two, three, eight, but go to 15, 16 or 25 ministries. There are different standards in different countries and one of our criteria for this government structure, was the response to social needs in Serbia, and the fulfilment of some criteria that are generally valid. So they mean there are general standards. In the Netherlands, for example. which has 16.5 million inhabitants, no more than 11 ministries, no need to move each individual and special area and put it into special ministries. Zoran Zivkovic, I think, said it very well. Here it can be misused, in order to settle political games for some politicians who may be leading their parties, but we believe that the government's structure must not be used for this, and therefore I think that all of our amendments are very good and that the Serbian government with nine ministries and the Prime Minister would be the best possible at the moment, and I think for a long period of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u509	National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted an amendment proposing that a new part III be added after Article 11, as well as to the title above Articles 12 and 12. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u510	About this amendment, I'm going to be really, really, really, really short, much less than two minutes as far as I'm concerned, since it's a technical matter. This amendment has been submitted to bring the amendment to Article 2 in line with the description of the work of our ministries. Our proposal is to add, after Article 11, a new part III which has a title - jobs common to all ministries, and the 12th and the name above Article 12 is changed and said: "Joint jobs for all ministries" that after that we have a subtitle - international co-operation and that Article 12 states that the ministry, within its part of the circle, achieves international co-operation and takes care of its improvement and ensures compliance with EU law. The amendment was very welcome and what was the subject of the debate in the previous amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u511	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment. The proposer and the Justice Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u512	Thank you very much. I was fast now. Of course, this is also an amendment similar to the amendment mentioned earlier by counterpart Vlad Pavicevic. I think it would be important to pay a little more attention to the amendments and to what they're talking about, because I think we're getting a little bit more attention. If it hadn't been for that, it wouldn't have happened that the amendment to Article 9 of the Justice Department would have added jurisdiction. I ask you to hear this, the Ministry of Justice will, among other things, have the authority to affirm the religious foundations and contents of the Sava, possibly Serbian national identity, gift travel, religious tourism, the development of religious education and help in sacral construction. I'd ask anyone here who has anything to do with legal science, with the organization of a state administration to tell me what it's got to do with gift trips and sacral construction with the Department of Justice, and you just adopted that? It is an amendment by a 132-nation Serb Progressive Party MP. This is proof that even with 16 ministries you can make freaks out of ministries where they connect absolutely incompatible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u513	The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendments. The proposer and the Justice Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u514	Our assumption was that the assembly majority would seriously consider all our amendments and at some point might accept these 38 amendments, so it was necessary for us to adapt our amendments to the new proposal for a law on the ministries that provides for these nine ministries and the Prime Minister. Hence, Article 14 of the current Bill on Ministrys provides for a description of the jobs to be dealt with by the Ministry of Education and Science, and we believe that Article 14 and the name above Article 14 should be changed, that the name above Article 14 should be – preparation, adoption, or proposal of technical regulations, which is in the later pages in this proposal and that it should be prescribed from there that the ministries, within the framework of their work, carry out the tasks of state administration relating to the preparation, adoption or proposal of technical regulations. This is a technical change, but it was necessary to explain why it should exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u515	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, submitted an amendment to Article 14. At its meeting of the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. No one's answering for a word. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted an amendment proposing that a new part of IV be added after article 14, as well as a name above Articles 15 and 15. The proposer and the Justice Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u516	This is another one of these technical amendments that are now moving agenda points against our proposal to adopt the nine proposal instead of the 16 ministries envisaged. There's nothing more to add. Once again, I would like to repeat the question – what does it have to do with the Ministry of Justice to assist in sacral construction, the development of religious education, religious tourism, gift travel and the social material position of religious bearers, sacred monasticity, religious officials, students and students of religious schools? What does that have to do with the Department of Justice? In which country are the gift trips related to the Ministry of Justice? Who's organizing it? Is it a minister or a special court, or is it a special service for gift law travel, or is it worshipping an authority? I would like, not for my sake, to know what this is all about, but because of the citizens of Serbia, to get some explanation, and 132 MPs were absolutely by law and the Rules of Procedure had the right to propose this. I would just like to know the essence – what does Serbia get by organising gift trips and sacral construction?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u517	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u518	Madam President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SNS respects the differences between us. He respects that we are a state of different nationalities, of religion. We respect all citizens of the Republic of Serbia equally. In the former government, there were ministries of religion and office that described their work and what the previous speaker was saying. In terms of rationalisation and economics, in terms of the effectiveness of the future government, the number of ministries has been reduced to 16, as suggested by counterpart Arsic in the Ministry Law. We do not want any segment of our society to remain uncovered, no segment of our society that has the right answer and concern of the Serbian state. It is normal and natural, and people say there is human and God's justice, to be within one ministry, the Ministry of Justice. It is normal, and it is no cost nor any kind of travel, because SNS policy is a reduction in the waste of the resources of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a reduction in the number of official cars, and so on. But if colleagues feel that we do not need to care about religious communities, if they do not need to worry about the diversity of religion, which we value and respect as the value of our society, then it is more a reflection of their political action. The Serbian Progressive Party will take care of it, and the future government will take care of all religious communities within the Ministry of Justice of the future government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u519	According to Article 87(2) and (3) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to adopt acts from the agenda of the session as soon as possible. Now, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, My rules of procedure determines a regular break of one hour. We continue work at 3:02 p.m. [[after breaks]] After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the National Assembly for the vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the decision of the Republic Election Commission since the mandate of the Members of Parliament to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Committee which has determined that conditions have been met to confirm the mandate of the Members of the People, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), should be approved. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Jelisaveti Pribolac and Krstimir Pantic, elected from the Electoral List Aleksandar Vukic - "The Future We Believe" - SNS, SDPS, NS, SPO, Socialist Movement, as well as Aleksandri Jerkov and Dusan Milisavljevic, elected from the Election List "With the Democratic Party for Democratic Serbia". On the basis of the decision of the Republic Election Commission and the Report of the proposal of the Administrative Committee, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandates of the peoples of Jelisaveta Pribojc, Krstimir Pantic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Dusan Milisavljevic. Congratulations to the MPs of the election. Also, given that MP Srdjan Dragojevic did not take an oath to verify the mandate at the constituent session of the National Assembly, it is necessary to now pass it. Dear People's MPs, please, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, let us approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messengers repeat it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms, and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice. "I ask the People's Messengers to sign the text of the oath. Let me wish you successful work in the upcoming term of office. We'll wait for our colleagues to sign the oath, so they can join us in our work. We continue to work on the agenda of the session. Before that, I would like to establish the resignation of Parliamentarian Marinika Tepic, who you have received, to resign as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation has been brought by the case referred to in Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. Accordingly, and pursuant to Article 88(2), paragraph 2 and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the time of his election, MP Marinika Tepic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. We're continuing our work. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u521	Thank you. After two minutes for the amendment, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. An amendment concerning the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, which has its competences in Article 16. In the previous law, within the framework of this ministry, the Agency for Gender Equality, established by other regulations, laws, the administration that achieved truly extraordinary results in the area for which it was responsible and the administration that was based in that ministry, here are a few words just read from the oaths, about defending human and minority rights, civil freedoms and serving the truth and justice. My amendment is not to abolish the Agency for Gender Equality and to return to deal with what it was founded for. Just in the morning part of the session, it happened that I had to change the concept of a discussion that I wanted to speak in favor of my amendment, in an attempt to earn your attention, and that we understand that it is necessary to return the Directorate for Gender Equality to the Ministry. The event that changed course is that the Ministry Act has put an end to the office, the Office for Religious Communities, the Office for Rapid Answers, the Office for Minority and Human Rights and, of course, this administration. What were we just witnesses to? That instead of an existing proposal to abolish the Church Office and the religious community, the committee had submitted a proposal to set up a administration for religious matters. The confusion over the contents of the amendment, and whether or not it belongs to the Ministry of Justice, stemmed from the fact that the Church Office and the religious community were not part of the ministry, it had a different position, and the text was just copied. By the will of the MPs, who is by no means controversial, we now have the authority for religious matters that deals with the recently mentioned gift trips and sacral construction, which, of course, I don't mind. On the contrary, I am someone who believes that it should be very consistent when it comes to human and minority rights and one Corps of these rights is religious rights, the right to religious freedoms and the right to free exercise and confession. But it also implies obligations. In two moments, I was one of the MPs who submitted proposals for the introduction of churches and religious communities into the tax system of our country, to exempt all kinds of cash that we all know exists in all church and religious communities, and I was, of course, rejected. Just because I'm a minority doesn't mean I'm wrong. I also asked, along with colleague Aleksandra Jerkov, that religious science be in the system of the Ministry of Education, now science and technological development, because I think it is necessary for the state authorities to have insight into the teaching of religion. There wasn't much either. Now we have an interesting situation that makes me change the context and concept of my exposure, that someone has been telephoned somewhere, and that, as a result, an amendment that has become an integral part of the law and now we have the authority for religious issues. The second office, as the Office for Quick Answers, which is in the budget with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, now has the office for quick answers at the Ministry of Economy, which I also have no objection to, and the explanation we heard from the MP Aleksandra Tomic. But the resistance not to abolish the birth equality board is obviously still in effect. I'm afraid we'll have the right, all of us who have read the oath that was before all of us, I'm afraid we'll have the right to ask the question - do all of us who have read that oath understand the importance of human and minority rights and the importance of civil freedoms and do we understand what it means to serve truth and justice? It's no problem, if there's a dispute, I totally understand what I signed the amendment, that the board, as well as in the case of the Church Office and the Religious Communities, do your amendment, submit it as my own, and I will withdraw my amendment. I don't think it's up to me to know that I've submitted the amendment. It's up to me to say that out of ignorance, probably without bad intentions, I don't want to believe that there's any particular intention of abolishing the birth equality management, and especially I don't want to believe that anyone thinks it's being abolished because it costs 3.3 million dinars in total. I will not believe that there is no idea how much support there is from European and world institutions, and I will not believe that hundreds and thousands and thousands and women and men who have worked hard in recent years to create a space where human and minority rights are defended, in which women's rights are defended, in which we have also written down as a member of the Constitution which we have also sworn that our Constitution guarantees a policy of equal opportunities. In order for equal opportunities policies to be, you have to have regulations and you have to have a body to monitor, which applies and which corresponds to this Assembly through the Ministry, whose part is that the policy of equal opportunities is actually realized. It will be unusually difficult to resist the conclusion that most simply believe that nothing that deals with human and minority rights, which deals with women's human rights, has nothing to do with the Law on Ministries, or in the organisation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I know I'll resist, because it's easy. To accuse someone of being impatient about the subject which is European, which is constitutional and which is a legal obligation for all of us is easy, populist, demagogue and I will resist it. I'm not sure whether the general public will resist, when they see the Law on the Ministry and when they see that there is not only the Directorate for Gender Equality and that there is not only the Office for Human and Minority Rights, that they believe that it is not about attitude, that it is not about the idea, that it is not about intention and that it is not about policy that is transformed into action by removing bodies that would enable the development, application and dialogue on an important topic such as gender equality. I fall into those who claim and can prove that gender is a word of dual meaning. The stork contains a word of women and a word of men. It's not just about women's rights. It is not about the problems women in Serbia have with domestic violence, with discrimination in employment, with discrimination in an attempt to advance in companies, organisations, institutions where they are employed, with the will to mock them just because they are women, to discriminate only because they are women. It's not just about women. This is about a strategic definition that is otherwise also in the National Strategy, which is now unclear who will be responsible for implementing it, when it comes to both women and men in Serbia. This is also about women in the security sector, because the Agency for Gender Equality has participated with excellent results in the job that this National Assembly has put high in the respect of the parliaments of the world, because the National Action Plan for the application of Resolution 1325 "women, Peace and Security" on the role of women in the security sector has been adopted. Our country has had great reforms, with many difficulties, in the security sector, in the MUP, in the military, where the Directorate for Gender Equality also participated. All that is written in the laws on the basis of which it is established, now remains to see a promise or see an honorable word that indeed someone will care that all these regulations are actually applied. The abolition of the Agency for Gender Equality is unnecessary damage. Money savings aren't. It's not even a move that could benefit anyone. Which is why it is decided, in this proposal for a law on ministries, that I put on our common, when I say common, I mean not belonging to a political party, but to a common human surface when it comes to the subject of human rights, minority rights, women's human rights, when it comes to changing the quality of life and women and men. In the end, I can only ask you to ask us how there was a sudden decision that the amendment committee established the Department for Religious Affairs. We women don't have anyone to call and we don't have that kind of influence. To be honest, I wouldn't want it. I would like us all to understand that it is a common benefit to either the committee to decide to make amendments to the same content or to make a miracle happen in Serbia and that most votes in favour of this amendment. It wouldn't mean that you accepted something that you don't honestly mean, because I know that most of you think what I'm saying, it wouldn't mean that I did something epochal, it would mean that we respect words to swearing that we all said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u522	Thank you. Just one explanation. One of the MPs asked for your time. You used the full time of the authorized representative, and you still have time for your group, and that's why it took longer. They didn't listen to you explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u523	They don't listen. I said I use the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u524	The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u525	Thank you. Now I'd really like to ask your attention and colleagues in the O.R., especially the viewers who are monitoring this transmission. This is one example that will only happen when the new government assumes its obligations. I'm talking a little slower because it's really hard for me to talk about this. You know I'm the first coordinator of the Women's Parliamentary Network, and when I talk about gender equality, I don't think I want any of these issues to go through the Assembly without me taking it seriously, but I'm really serious and human, and I'm not as much of a party as it's agreed somewhere to vote. So, before that, I am just answering the questions Mrs. Komic mentioned. So should this administration be abolished, should Mrs. Comic think about this amendment, or perhaps in a new way? I'm now going to offer you a different view of these questions. As I said at the outset, it may be a way of thinking in this congregation in the future. Are difficult questions really important to our society, where will they move on, what are some of the moral, spiritual, and ethical values that we will follow in the future? During this difficult period, when truly, in everyday language, many of us have nothing to eat, these topics are not among the priorities of our media, and unfortunately not in many important places. For me personally, this is one of the priorities and should be among the priorities for our public gender equality, but Serbia is still a traditional and patriarchal society. We need to understand this broader framework, that at this point in time, indeed, the future government, and all members of the government, have a great obligation to get the country out of this situation and find ways to keep our heads above water from too much responsibility and to fight with all our strengths to really pull Serbia forward for the next three years, and to place the citizens of Serbia in one normal, that our refrigerators are not empty, that we have jobs. But don't forget that the first task of this government is to repair the previous situation and that we are now coming into the aftermath of what was done many, many years ago. That's why, in this context, we need to think about what to do next. With all due respect to Mrs. Comić, and personally and professionally, there is a lot of what she said, but this appeal that it is exclusively necessary to vote for the Directorate for Gender Equality, or that it is not abolished, with all the arguments she has made, indeed, that I do not have the information and information that I have, I would vote so. Probably a lot of my colleagues and colleagues would vote for the administration to stay. What are my reasons for not voting for the Department of Gender Equality, that is, to vote for its abolition? The decision wasn't made by accident. Analysis has been done and I am sorry that many of the moves of the future government here will use an argument to bring it lightly, under the heading – we have to rationalise, to be thrifty, there are costs. And this time it was -- well, it's only three million dinars for management, they won't save us that three million. This isn't about money. A special analysis requires the result of work, the way money is spent in the Directorate for Gender Equality, the behavior of employees. At this point, the public should be interested in the outcome of the Directorate for Gender Equality. That really sounds very nice, as a name bearing some European values, that's something that awaits us and that we will stand for in the future, but, honestly, I think that all colleagues who were in the previous parliamentary network, and that will be in the future, I don't know if they can remember any results from the Directorate for Gender Equality in the previous 18 months. If I were to measure it, I'd say that the Women's Parliamentary Network without dinars, of its own free will, has done a lot more results than the Management has done in the previous period. So money isn't always number one, and I'm not saying that just for the sake of saving, we want to end management. At number one there are effects and results of work. I will tell you what assessments of institutions that co-operated with the Department of Gender Equality in the previous period, how they assessed this co-operation and how the Directorate for Gender Equality itself made certain conclusions and recommendations that are not now in favour of the amendment by Mrs. Comic. The Agency for Gender Equality itself, therefore, has given the view that it itself has a number of obstacles, i.e. it faces obstacles to the implementation of its tasks due to an addictive position within only one ministry, so the Administration itself has requested that it be organised in such a way that it is given the authority to suggest and make recommendations to other ministries. So, working only within one ministry, it will hardly be possible for its recommendation to apply to other ministries. So it would be much smarter if we organized an office that would have the same, similar powers, covering this area, but an office that could give suggestions to all ministries. So the management itself asked it to come out of it. The Council on Gender Equality of the Government of the Republic of Serbia stresses in its conclusion, and the Council on Gender Equality for those less involved does not only gather members from the ruling coalition, there are representatives of professional institutions, the civil sector, people who have been dealing with this area for a long time, so in his conclusion, he stressed that gender equality is the issue of all areas in Serbia's social life. And it's not just a matter of one ministry, it has to permeate all policies, so it belongs to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The administration has been assessed as a clogged body which, through the position of an institutionalised mechanism in one ministry, has been prevented from affecting policies created and applied in other resolutions. The political council for implementing UN Resolution 1325 in its report also recommended that a body be formed that would implement the principles of gender equality in all spheres. Not to quote you any further. There are also recommendations from international organisations, the OSCE Special Envoy on Gender Equality, which visited Serbia during 2012, and then the European Institute for Gender Equality also said in its recommendations for implementing the Beijing Platform: "In order for an institution dealing with gender equality to be successful, it must also be independent within the government, but at the highest level. The absolute existence of the Agency for Gender Equality within this ministry cannot satisfy the needs of our society at this time, so we cannot act through all ministries or meet the recommendations of international organisations. We are witnesses, and most of you have probably received e-mails and messages from the NGO that are calling for us to vote in favour of this amendment, therefore, against the abolition of the administration, to keep it. But let's think about whether this and this administration, the work on which there are a number of objections, this isn't something I wrote, I pulled this out of a report from a number of international institutions and prominent bodies and institutions in the Republic of Serbia, do you keep it as it is or make a new organisational form, which will be much more effective? At this point, we don't need to talk about money, it's not a priority here at all. It's not true that she was proposed to be abolished just for the sake of money. First of all, because, as I have already mentioned, it was one clogged organ that absolutely did not work, many other institutions have brought a number of significant shifts and have not been within the administration. Finally, many major things within this area were brought without the presence of the Administration and with the help of the NGO sector. The very proposal for a law on ministries makes it clear that public authority operations that had to be implemented by the administration as a special organisational unit of the ministry are not being shut down. That's very important. In a much more efficient, more professional and economical way, it will be set up in a new organisational structure that will, above all, enable contact with all relevant and state and social bodies and organisations dealing with gender equality and non-discrimination. This is certainly in line with the needs of citizens, i.e. the most important thing will be to make contact with reality. The point of contact with reality can also be interesting for those who are doubting whether to vote "yes" or "against" abolitions. So far, management of the administration has been very irresponsible to its obligations. Only the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of which the Administration has found that there is a complete lack of realisation, co-ordination with other state bodies, with an autonomous province, with singles of local self-government in the area of gender equality, transfer and avoidance of responsibilities. No enforcement of obligations relating to the normative legal activity of the Administration, i.e. they did not take part in the development of legal and other rules in the area of the improvement of gender equality. No adoption, no implementation of strategic documents. Work exclusively on projects and not informing the ministry. None of us here are naive and not small. Work on projects is very interesting in Serbia, especially if you have a secure source of funding. Maybe we should think about it somewhere, where the NGO has raised this much trouble at this height. I understand, yes, I agree. Personally, I won't let the field of gender equality get in the corner. It's going to be an organisational structure that will deal exclusively with it. I was personally very interested in being involved in the executive power of this area. I'm always in favour of co-operation, but I think everyone's worried, because one great source of funding will be closed for a particular circle of NGOs, because the administration itself has functioned in a closed circle. I'm writing a project. I know who's gonna fund it. Let's do a good promotion in the media. Everybody calm down. Everyone's happy. In some places, breaking up such combinations and agreements will be a problem in the government's next moves. When we want to break something up, so it can't be anymore, then someone's gonna call on other spin stories. It will be very difficult for us all to chew up that story and find somewhere somewhere somewhere between what's really good for Serbia in the future and where the difference between when we call for certain human rights, and when we need to measure somewhere between where to go, where to make big cuts and where it really should be. This topic deserves discussion, but let's think about whether this administration is something to break it on. Is there one of you who's going to tell me that something I've said is not true, that the management with all of you has been working widely, with open competitions, that there is no objection to the work of the administration. I also know your objections that will be fine if the management of the administration so far were not satisfied, change, but remain an institution. I said at the beginning, both the international and domestic public institutions had a grudge in the way of organisation and work in the administration. I think a wider body, it's wrong to say a wider body, one body that could make recommendations to all ministries would be the right solution. That's what we need to think about. Tomorrow, the prime minister in his broad exposé will talk about it, so there's an opportunity for us to discuss this subject with him. This is not – not gender equality in Serbia, this is not a reduction in women's rights in Serbia, it's not a reduction in chances for the other sex, this is just one effective way to work effectively, cheaper, smarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u526	On what basis does Gordana Komic seek word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u527	It's MP time, if there's still a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u528	The time of the parliamentary group, you have the rights. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u529	Thank you. The whole discussion would be great and I'd follow her equally carefully, there's no delay. I followed her more carefully than any other discussion, expecting to hear what kind of organisational structure it was. We don't. Since, if you want to replace a body called management, it is right that a respected colleague said if people, women or men you named, Stana Bozovic and others, did not do their job properly then everyone has the right to seek other people based on the results. But to talk about the organisational structure of hypothetically, not to submit an amendment that defines an organisational structure for something that is the recommendations of international organisations that participated in the work of the administration, for something that is recommended by professional people who, quite right, believe that because of the constitutional solution to the policy of equal opportunities, this body must have an impact on all ministries. So, to talk about how that should happen the day we pass the ministry law without having an amendment that happens, it gives me the right to express regret that a good opportunity to submit such an amendment is missing, I would vote for it first by withdrawing my amendment. You're right about one thing. We really don't understand each other deeply. The motives and the reasons for which I submit the amendment and the parliamentary majority refuse the amendment. Both things are legitimate. I would really like the speech to be finished with the content of the amendments that presented the new organisational structure, because I know that neither the distinguished colleague Marija Obradovic nor I, nor many of us here have any dispute, with some body that will take care of equal opportunities policy, must exist in the government. There's a difference in words and deeds. I stand for the amendment because it is my option and my obligation, and I hear from you the promise that once upon a time, and perhaps in the prime minister's exposé, there will be a speech that organizational structures will once upon a time be. Such a chance to be her now and today is not missed if she's seriously thinking about actions rather than just words. But I also know what the process is. And within the framework of the female parliamentary network, whichever of you or us led, you will have my support and I will ask my colleagues for support to build an organisational structure anyway, with an occasional reminder that you've missed one great chance to prove that you're doing what you think and you're saying and it's obviously missed because there's no amendment to the organisational structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u530	Marija Obradovic, on what basis? You can, like Mrs. Comic, use the time of the parliamentary group. The replica has no basis. I'm sorry, just so you don't communicate and throw away, you can use the MP's time. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u531	Thank you. This is a decent parliamentary debate, I thank my colleague Comic for that. It's an argument, of course. I'm glad you agreed to most of what I said. I just want to make it right, I didn't mention my colleague Stana Bozovic, she had nothing to do with the birth equality department, someone else was running management. A colleague of Stana Bozovic is in the Council, and this has nothing to do with the Gender Equality Administration and she is advocacy max, and so it will be in the coming period, and I expect her to help us in this area, in forming an organisational structure. I hope you didn't use that mockery because, as you say, the spoken word is a big obligation, at least for me personally, and I know for you. That's why I'm using this little general term, the organisational structure, it's hard to use another term by holding my word, which is why it's not so later. Because the form itself could be heard during today’s day is much less important. From the fact that he is actually doing business, jurisdiction within the framework of gender equality remains somewhere at the top of government duties. At this point, there is no amendment that has not been submitted. To use this moment, I said it at the beginning, in Serbia, when it's really worse than trying to just keep our heads above the water. Every day they arrive at the collection of numerous loans, and only one who runs his household and who collects from first to first knows how hard it is to keep his head above water. And perhaps now the citizens who follow this at home understand it best. I'm not saying that this shouldn't be in the priorities, but now we have no amendment to predict an organisational form except what was said in the bill. In talks conducted with future members of the government that would deal with this topic, it was discussed that the opening of the office, conditionally said, is what you yourself know is that this is being set up by the government's regulation. The most important thing is that we remain persistent in this topic, that we work together, and as it was difficult to vote 30% of women in Parliament, I would remind the colleagues who are here may not know, that they are in these benches only thanks to the efforts of previous colleagues. It was very difficult to vote, this is one small part of the fight we're fighting around the administration today, but this is just one step further, now it's easy to run because we already have a track. Now somewhere we stop, somewhere we go faster, somewhere slower. I don't think we should vote for your amendment and that we will work well together somewhere in the coming period and that you will probably be one of the most important associates of the future organisation structure in the Serbian government to deal with this field of gender equality. Thank you for your courtesy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u532	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u533	The New Party MPs will support Mrs Comic's amendment. The argument she gave is exactly what we agree with. There's no excuse for abolishing this administration. If in that administration, as far as I understand the arguments of the opposite party, there was some crime, some combinations, I quote, some deals, then it's a job for the D.A.'s office, whether normally, whether for a special or for some other body, and not for the whole administration to be shut down. According to this logic, you should shut down "The Railways of Serbia", "Srbigas", the Ministry of Energy, the Foreign Ministry, the MUP, that part that provides tires for the president's vehicle and many other institutions. Of course, this is not a good example, but an example is that if someone did bad work, they should be replaced, if it was against the law, they should be sent to the competent institutions. It's completely pointless and an argument that at this time, which is very difficult, we don't have time for gender equality. Of course, time is hard and everybody knows it, but that's no reason to put something that has nothing to do with the standard of citizens as an argument that we now need to push aside and save ourselves in a fire of effort, as far as I understand from a talented pay phone. I'm serious about this. The talent is oratorically insufficient if you're trying to defend something that's pointless. You said it was not time for new offices to be established now and that the parliamentary majority had not participated, that it had not changed the draft law on the ministries. That's not true. Just half an hour or an hour ago, we were talking about gift trips, sacral construction and other nonsense that are now part of the Justice Department. Of course, it's not stupid in itself...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u534	You're out of time. You've spent even the extra time you have as an independent MP. I thank you. You're out of time. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u535	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members, we have now had the opportunity to hear that there are reasons why this administration should be abolished. Apparently, many of the actions that have taken place since its founding are taking us somewhere, entering the path that we need to carry out a complete review of this topic and that it is going somewhere towards fighting corruption, as we have heard. I didn't have that knowledge, but for the sake of Serbian citizens, it should be said that the organisation of one ministry can be through administration, through directorship or through the agency at all. If you'd like to ask a question, please put the accent in particular. The new concept of the government has surpassed the subject of the Agency for Gender Equality, which should be reduced to only one ministry, but should be brought down to the overall involvement of women in decision-making, especially in politics and in the state policy of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, shutting down the Administration does not mean that women will not participate in any decisions that are of great importance to the work of the state authorities. We have a Council for Gender Equality, which will directly affect the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The second thing, the Department of Religious Affairs with complete justification was introduced, because if you remember a bit, we had special ministries in earlier governments that referred to religious issues, as well as certain problems that occurred in church land. Of course, all these issues and problems have been overcome, but there remains a particular segment of society that needs to be dealt with. Why are we now talking about the Agency for Gender Equality and the Department for Religious Affairs? Because there are political moments when you have to make certain decisions that you will have to implement in the future through a policy that develops, and development policy involves gender equality, but not just gender equality. The issue of women involvement in the fight against violence, health care at all, as far as I'm concerned, is of great importance, but above all to the economic empowerment of women because gender equality can no longer be a social category, and it was in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs through the Department of Gender Equality. It should become an economic possibility for the country to develop, where women should really take important places, especially in Serbia's economy, where they should simply be the drivers of the development of society at all. I think this concept, by shutting down, does not mean that we want to reduce the voice of women, but rather the opposite. We want to boost our participation. Thus, you can see that by choosing the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who is women, we show that as SNS and as the government that will be formed tomorrow, we want Serbia to move forward. This is in line with European standards and we don't have that problem at all, but we have a problem when someone wants to attribute one topic to themselves as just their property to talk about and be the only advocates on the subject, as if there's no one else who can adequately set up good pillars for the future. I don't think we can argue on this subject. I think we're only looking at this topic from different aspects, and I think working together in the future is going to give very good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u536	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u537	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, this topic we like to deal with in a specific way, not a demagogue. The kid when he draws a horse on a drawing, he'll say it's a horse, and basically we all know it's not. So here we can make hundreds of bodies, host party personnel, and basically there's no result. A truly adequate question arises – what is the result of all these bodies? We listen year after year to less gender, in this case women, are constantly discriminated against. We usually hear that from the NGO sector that supports, say, the amendment that's been filed here. Then the question is, what has this body been doing all these years? I think we've overcome this concept as it has been. Birth equality is achieved only in practice in the best possible way, and this demonstrates the SNS. Our most responsible functions include the women – and the governor of the National Bank, and the President of the Assembly, and the Secretary of the Assembly and Vice-President of the Government. Thank God, another Deputy Prime Minister will be Mrs Joksimovic. We also have ministers. Thus, the word gender equality is demonstrated in the right sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u538	We'll leave for tomorrow's prime minister to present the staff of the cabinet. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u539	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would also like to ask the assembly's majority to pay special attention to this amendment, Mrs Comic. It was very nice to listen to Mrs. Tomic and Mrs. Obradovic, but what was the problem with these speeches? I think we had a weak argument. So, we had weak arguments dressed in nice style. What are the two arguments used here? One argument was that people who worked at the Department of Gender Equality were not doing well. We have a good answer here. If someone hasn't been doing well, they shouldn't be working here anymore, but it shouldn't affect the survival of the Agency for Gender Equality. According to that logic, many institutions could be abolished because someone was not working in them. The argument is simply weak. The second argument that appeared here was that it was expensive, that we lived in difficult times, that the refrigerators were empty and similar, and that there was no money to be given to the Directorate for Gender Equality. Our counterargument is this: how is it that the assembly majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is ready to allocate money for gift travel, pilgrimages and other forms of religious tourism, and that there is no money, we have seen what money is, for something that is standard in each EU country? Mr Djukanovic has earlier today called for standards, and now speaks directly against what is a widely accepted standard in EU countries. I urge the assembly majority to reconsider the content of this amendment and to support this amendment. The two of us, Zoran Zivkovic and I, will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u540	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u541	Thank you. Dear Presidents, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, with all due respect to my male colleagues, it seems to me that when Members of Parliaments conduct a dialogue here it really represents a constructive debate, no replicas, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I don't think anyone here questioned the goals and motives that Gordana Comic had when she submitted this amendment. What's asking a question and a number of arguments that have been made here seem to be not standing. We can't say today that we live, in fact, to say that we live in Serbia which is still a patriarchal society, which is, but then the question arises – how are we going to fight for gender equality in the future? Of course, I am sorry that because of the many obligations, above all in some other bodies, I have not taken part in the work of the Women's Parliamentary Network, which I commend and of course it is a representative of what the work of the MPs should look like. I think that, if any of these arguments are considered, the work itself is at stake, if you want the results done yourself, the efforts made and the efforts made by the Women's Parliamentary Network. We must bear in mind that 30% should not be just some quota that the MPs here will fill, that women should take part exactly as some NGOs have suggested, which is to be 30% of women's participation in the assembly committees. It is commendable, of course, that we have the President of the Assembly. It is commendable that the woman is governor, it is commendable that Mrs Joksimovic will be minister, will not be vice president, as far as I know. But it seems to me that we need a lot more to go right in the direction, and if we're talking about it, I'm running out of time, and I'm going to end up here, that the Agency for Gender Equality, which I can kind of agree with, represents, at least in its work, one bad solution and one misrepresented organ, but at the same time I think that this was a chance that, when we're discussing the Ministry Act, we should give one moderation and possibly another form, through which this equality, I'm primarily thinking about women's human rights, would come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u542	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u543	I can accept arguments that colleagues and colleagues want to retain an institution such as the Agency for Gender Equality, but I cannot accept an argument coming from individual colleagues that the future government wants to abolish institutions in the Republic of Serbia, such as the Agency for Gender Equality. I think that this is very clear in this Ministry Act and that it is precisely the goal of the future government to reorganise in this area, to simply enhance efficiency and coordination with other ministries and with the locale. It is true, no amendment has been submitted, but I am sure, with respect to all the recommendations of the European Union and international organisations, that none of us want to neglect this area. It has only good intentions to reorganize it in another way, not through the Department of Gender Equality, but through one body or office that will deal more effectively with this area. Let's give this body or this office a chance to form, show its results, plan and intent, and then we'll all criticise or praise that future body together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u544	The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u545	Before I continue my discussion, all I want to do is report to you, and this can be checked, from my earlier discussion so far, I've received twenty threatening messages from the NGO's representatives by phone, text messages condemning my speech, insulting me because they are dissatisfied with me for saying that the Directorate for Gender Equality is their source of funding. I don't think that's the way to communicate in Serbia. Of course it hurt me very much, because these are the colleagues I worked very well with yesterday. I am still there for co-operation, to be someone who wants to help them change the law so that native equality in Serbia is at a certain envious level. I'm sorry they're acting that way. I am also as sorry as certain colleagues, opposition, who, while not referring to Mrs. Komic, use this topic for daily-political small points. The daily transfer of the Assembly is a great opportunity that if you do not have a strong enough party, you can have enough space in the media every day, especially if you are criticising a harsh government. This topic, gender equality, implementing to us that we no longer want to implement the policy of gender equality, the parties whose MPs are the most, the most numerous in the Women's Parliamentary Network, which has the most women in the country's leading places, is indeed unserious, only a tiny daily-political point, nothing else. Serbian citizens do not have an educational level very high, but they are not stupid. Someone's not stupid, but maybe he's not educated enough. So don't mess with the citizens anymore and fool them with the story that this government doesn't have high enough criteria and that it doesn't want to further develop trends of European values. We never said we were interrupting gender equality policy, reducing women's rights. We're just looking for the right shape, more efficient, to implement this kind of policy in Serbia. Don't play with such important topics, don't use them for petty daily-political points, especially not holding your hands in your pockets. Please, let's get serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u546	The word is made by the People's Messenger Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u547	Article 112 Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, when we hear from the People's Parliament or the People's Parliament to give her or to receive threatening messages, my suggestion is that the chairman immediately take a break, since the threatening messages have arrived to our colleague here. I think it's time that a colleague immediately told the competent institution what these messages were, to take a break, so that there wouldn't be any further harassment and after that to continue the work. I think it's a serious thing when someone gets a threat.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u548	Please, Mr. Pavicevic, do not abuse the Rules of Procedure. You advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure and didn't explain it. Please respect the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, when I ask you to hear me, it is an obligation to hear me. You were able to express that problem in another way, which I can agree with in part, but I'm saying it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I didn't hurt him. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You have no grounds for breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u549	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about gender equality. It bothered me because it turned into a discussion only about women's rights. The Agency for Gender Equality should be ageing, and women's rights are almost exclusively potential in the amendment. It says – elimination, discrimination against women, and the National Strategy to improve women's position. Why doesn't it say elimination, discrimination against women and men or a national strategy to improve the position of women and men? It bothers me when men want to dominate women, but it also bothers me when women try to view it as their own problem and in a certain way to dominate men's questions. So, if we are talking about gender equality, I would like this amendment to be more precise and to talk about gender equality, both gender and gender, as the Constitution and the Law on selecting Members of the People writes well – the less represented gender, and that law and the Constitution apply to both sexes. I would so like this amendment to be a little more specific. In that case, I would support him, and it's not a little girly like this, as I would say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u550	The word has been issued by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u551	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and MPs, I am reporting as a national MP, but also as President of the Council for Gender Equality of the Kruševec City Assembly. I can freely say that I had an exceptional co-operation with the Council on Gender Equality of the Republic of Serbia and with the Women's Parliamentary Network, and that I had no co-operation with the Gender Equality Administration in my work so far, so I will not vote in favour of the amendment, Mrs. Comic. By the way, I can tell you quite the MPs, or the committees in the local parliament, were against the formation of a female board network in my town, in the Kruševec City Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u552	The word is made by the MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u553	The observation has been made that the amendment is not precise enough, so that there is not enough clarity left. The stork is a word that contains both the word of a woman and the word of a man. Rod's not the same as half. Paul is female or male, and the gender includes the social roles they give us once we're born as girls or as boys. The constitution doesn't know the sex. The constitution knows the policy of equal opportunities, and it refers to the elimination of discrimination against women and men in various areas. When it comes to gender equality, it is only common that if we read too little to think only about women, which is incorrect. We change the roles of both women and men. When we were born, we were 50 or 40 or 30 years old, the role of both women and men was completely different, not to talk about the roles of women and men, which are the generation of our fathers and mothers, if we are 40 or 50 years old. So it would be a good idea before we require precision to look at the definitions and terms that have been entered into the amendment. What she was dealing with, say, and the Agency for Gender Equality is exactly the idea when it comes to domestic violence, and violence always interrupts the victim, so whoever's beaten, who's beaten, who's bullied, whether it's a woman or a man. Many women and men in Serbia live miserablely because they live in the atmosphere of violence. What newly introduced is the idea of regulations and the work of people who are related to gender equality, that how to help a victim who suffers violence, whether a woman or a man, is thus meant to help a bully, because spending his life in the will to show violence is equally unfortunate, but not suffering, like a person's life, regardless of age and a half, which violence suffers only because one of it or of it is physically stronger. In the election laws, we are talking about a less-represented sex, not less-represented sex, but I am pleased to ask myself to clarify and specify what is going on in the amendment, that it has caused so much support to talk about the need for discrimination between men, and this is before or should have left the Directorate for Gender Equality or to propose an organisational structure that will replace it, because the behavior we see in this hall is so obvious that both men and women feel that there are many problems that one should take care of through regulations, through supervision and through the application of regulations. It remains unclear why then the decision to abolish and not propose something new. I don't want to guess how many women will be in the government. There is 15.6% on the news, but I want to believe that during the government's election, then since it's a policy, as we heard here, in the prime minister's exhibition and exhibition, but also in every presentation of the minister, we will hear what he will do as part of his ministry for gender equality policy. The weight of public words, the responsibility for the public word. I will consider our discussions an obligation to ask each minister when passing the report and when proposing legislation – how what you propose will produce changes for better or worse, looking through the prism of gender equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u554	I apologize to the MPs, but we must return to one amendment that we have skipped. Members of the 16th and 16th Amendment were jointly appointed by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposer and the committee responsible have not adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u555	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, this is one of the 38 amendments that we have submitted to the National Assembly President Zoran Zivkovic and myself. In Article 16. The proposal for a law on ministries, submitted by Mr Arsic, is a description of the jobs to be dealt with by the ministry of labour, employment and martial arts. The amendment to Article 2 provided that there is no such ministry, but that we have a new ministry called the Ministry of Health, Labour and Social Policy. Since this was our proposal for an amendment to Article 2, then we now propose that Article 16 in the proposal of Mr Arsic be changed and that we receive the Republic Secretariat for legislation and that Article 16 states: “The Secretariat for legislation is carrying out professional tasks relating to: building, monitoring and improving the legal system, ensuring compliance with the rules and general acts in the legal system in the process of their adoption and care for their normative technical and linguistic validity, supervision of publication and custody of the publication of regulations and other acts of the Government, ministries and other bodies and organisations for which this law is laid down, as well as other matters of a certain law. “ We feel that Article 16 must stand. I've got another addition. Politics, of course, among other things, is about organising people's lives together. This organization with regard to a special institution for us begins today and therefore again I demand your attention, these assembly majority, to reconsider once more, not only this, but all 38 amendments of the New Party MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u556	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u557	Such an amendment is totally unacceptable for many reasons, and this is because the essence and intensity of the legislator was to stress here, among other things, that this ministry would be in charge of work, but the key word is for employment, and I can say for fighting and social issues. We can't mix it with the health ministry, as someone here suggested. I can say, it's not even with those European standards that someone here is calling on. It is very important for us to point out that the future state will actively deal with employment, the development of a business environment, so that people here can find a job. I have to point out that I'm very glad that the ministry is coming back and emphasising this on combat issues because we have a lot of people in charge, in a way, of our country and it's our turn to be mentioned and to be taken care of by this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u558	National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The proposer and the committee responsible have not adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th and 17th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposer and the committee responsible have not adopted this amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u559	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, Article 17. The proposal for a law on ministries, submitted by Mr Arsic, is intended to provide a description of jobs in the work of the Ministry of Culture and Information. Our proposal by amendment to Article 2 was that such a ministry did not exist, but that we had one ministry to be called the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture, and then we were in the amendment to Article 2 and in the specific amendment, which defines the jobs of the Ministry of Education, Science and Culture, precisely, very precisely defined which jobs. Since our proposals for the ministries are such that there are fewer ministries then it is necessary that Article 18 in the proposal of Mr Arsic is changed, that we have in Article 18 a description of the activities of the Republic Reserve Directorate and here we provide for the following text - the Republic Reserve Directorate shall carry out professional tasks and tasks of the State of Administration relating to the organisation of the system of commodity reserves, education, accommodation and storage, restoration of the Republic goods reserves, the determination of the scope, structure and quality of the balance sheet of commodity reserves, the management of quantities with the aim of maintaining reserves at the level of the minimum necessary, the building of storage facilities for the needs of the Republic's commodity reserves, the material, financial and the registration of operations of goods reserves, as well as other transactions of a certain law. That's our proposal. I hope you will have an understanding of this amendment to Article 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u560	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u561	Very short. Of course we can't have an understanding of such an amendment for many reasons, because the grandmothers and frogs are getting involved again. We can't mix sports, culture, information. We are a country that should only one day become a member of the EU. Until then, we have a lot of assignments to do. Among other things, important tasks are ahead of us, such as the adoption of a set of media laws. We need a ministry that will deal most directly with this set of media laws. It's just that something like this is unacceptable and we can't accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u562	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'd like you to answer me if this is article 17?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u564	Yes, Article 17.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u565	I'm afraid our colleague professor was telling us about the amendment to Article 18. Don't follow the session. As far as I can see in their amendment, the Republic Secretariat for Harmonisation with the EU legal fluid, the Republic Secretariat for Harmonisation with the EU legal fluid. It must have been what the Serbs say "kopi-paist". It's some Serbians from California. This is mentioned twice – he performs the professional affairs and tasks of the state administration relating to the translation of the EU's legal assets, in Serbian language, the making of dictionaries of legal, technical and other terms. This is an amendment to Article 17. As far as I know, they were talking about stock reserves. I'm not a professor, but when someone picks up the pots, I have to warn him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u566	I have to say, that's possible. That's what the professor will say, there's been a mistake, but not by his mistake. I guess the man didn't hear me say we were back on Article 17. Therefore, respect such a failure. I'll give him my word. It's important that we process all the amendments. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u567	Thank you for giving me your word. Mr. Risticevic is absolutely right. I'm not glad there were no other MPs besides him who noticed this mistake. It means only one thing, that Mr. Risticevic follows closely and reads all our amendments, that he probably read all 38ths, and I hope that in the end he will vote for all 38 of our amendments. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u568	Mr. Pavicevic, I have to ask you, given this confusion, is there any need to discuss Article 18 again? We think we've solved that article. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u569	I asked for a replica because I was mentioned twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u570	Mr. Risticevic, please. Yes, but in a positive sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u571	It's not very positive. Let me interpret. I can't support this.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u572	Mr. Risticevic, he didn't mention you at all in a negative sense. Please respect my position.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u573	Then I want to hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u574	I am obliged to read Article 18, regardless of what Mr Pavicevic has failed to comment further on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u575	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u576	Here you go, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u577	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, I appeal to dignity. It's said here that I should accept all amendments. I simply cannot accept these amendments where they say - the Republic Secretariat for Harmonisation with the legal fluid of the EU, the Republic Secretariat for Harmonisation with the legal assets of the EU, etc. Two sentences are repeated twice. How can I accept a amendment like this? That's offensive. No matter how illiterate this "kopi-paist" is, no matter how much a farmer may be, I can't admit it in an American way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u578	It's all right, Mr. Risticevic. I don't think anyone can make you vote. I'll read Article 18. On behalf of members 18 and of the 18th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Since the promoter has agreed to move forward, we are going to the next amendment. National MPs Branka Karavidic, Biljana Hasanovic Korac, Ivan Karic and Aleksandar Senic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new title and a new member of 18a be added after article 18a. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u579	Dear colleagues and colleagues, submitting this amendment, were primarily thinking that the highest costs for the state were just following in the negotiations with the EU, the most followed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, if it were united. This is why we are submitting an amendment to a new, single environment, natural resources and spatial planning ministry, all with the aim of serious environmental protection and to warn some of the negative effects that may occur and which have occurred in the past. We were talking about prevention, we were talking about not cleaning up Serbia, but not polluting it, and with all these outcasts, I agree. This is why we propose a single ministry so that we can regulate waste management, climate change and carbon dioxide emissions, so that we can regulate the state of waste water, biodiversity, nature, regulation of chemicals and biocidal products, regulate the area of natural resources, what is very important in the green economy and green growth, deal with remediation and recreation, particularly with the recovery of historical pollution that is very present in Serbia, to deal with continuous monitoring of the quality of the environment and to deal with the preparation of projects that can be implemented from access funds. We don't have enough quality projects right now. If you can respect my request for the use of the MP's time group. Let me get on with it. We do not have enough good projects and programmes to compete with from EU funds tomorrow. Speaking of funds, I'd like to mention an incriminating environmental fund that has nothing to do with the concept of the Fund. I expected that in these two years we would arrest someone and prosecute for the malfeasances you've been talking about for two years. Unfortunately, or fortunately, no one has been arrested yet because there has been malfeasance at the Environmental Protection Fund. The European Union recognises the Environment Fund only and exclusively as a special legal person for the purpose of monitoring exactly what you have been talking about the money flows that are being entered, which are strictly dedicated, which only under the law can be used to protect the environment and to resuscitate the environment. This law foresees all this, so that we can do projects and design projects and programmes on our way to the EU, to return 40% of the local self-government of ecological money, which is collected in their territories, primarily Obrenovac, Pancheva, Bora, Smedereva, Lazarjevac. For the past two years, local self-government has not received even part of the huge ecological money collected by the polluter pays on the territory of Obrenovac municipality, Lazarec, Panchevo, Smederovo, Bor. This is an appeal and a citizen who lives there. Resuscitation, recalibration, environmental accidents and disasters, we've had a lot of them in the last 25 years. In the last two years, enough. Continued monitoring of the quality of the environment, fostering eco-innovation, which is very important in the EU association process and what is important, for the economic gain of the Serbian state. What we have proposed is a green capital investment fund that would use everything the state does not know what to do and how to dispose of it, so let's say 250 million tons of ash at the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant in Obrenovac can be very serious raw material for the road industry, not waste that even in the slightest wind causes an ecological disaster in Obrenovac. Every third child in Obrenovac has a problem with respiratory disease. That is why we think that especially the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Spatial Planning must exist. What is crucial in the ministry's existence is 10,000 new jobs within six months, a minimum of 150m euros in foreign investment in environmental protection over the next six months. When we talk about "Belgrade on Water", we think it should be green blue regulation first and serve as an ecological project for "Belgrade on Water". When we talk about 150m euros in foreign investment, we also talk about the private-public partnership of public-public enterprises and local self-government, concessions on waste water factories, industrialisation of recycling production, reforming the system of regional dumps. That, we seem to agree, is not a good system of regional dumps in the last two years and should be changed and modernised. We support climate change policy, the decentralisation of the ministry, the Chemical Agency that needs to be established so that we don't have what's happening to us with biocidal agents and that we don't reduce biodiversity, which, unfortunately, has been at risk for the last few decades. The use of thermal ash in the construction industry that can be very interesting, the production of biomass, green roofs and many green investments in the green economy can be interesting. Regardless of all this, if the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection remains, we are ready to give in to the future minister of all programmes, all resources, if necessary, and thus to declare joint work to improve the economic conditions and life of Serbian citizens, indeed, and unless any of these amendments "green" have the right to not participate in Serbia's development. If you need our help, we're here.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u580	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u581	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I appreciate your tenacity to get a separate Ministry of Ecology, but I don't see why you wouldn't grant us these projects if you were in good faith and if it was within another ministry. I guess we should work things out together. That's one thing. The second thing, you've had enough time in the previous period to realize all the wonderful projects you're talking about when you had an independent and isolated Ministry of Ecology with an orthopaedic head. The third thing I want to talk about is an incriminating environmental fund. None of us said they were malfeasances. That's what you said, even though you have knowledge of it, then contact the authorities. We were just saying that no funds were paid from this fund to enterprises, or institutions that worked to protect and prevent environmental protection. Please listen carefully to what we're saying. I repeat, if you have any knowledge of malfeasance, then you should immediately contact the competent authorities. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u582	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u583	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I just said at the end of my speech what you said I didn't say and that's the manner of your replication in the last few hours. I just said that we are ready to step in and help, and if there is no special ministry because the Serbian state has no reserve citizens and first and second-row citizens and there is nothing we have said in the past. I didn't understand you very well about the orthopaedics. For the first time, I entered the Assembly in 2012. Green Serbia has been in the Assembly for the first time since 2012 and I would not like... So far, you've avoided talking about the past. Don't let us go back in time. I'm talking about the future. There's been a lot of things in the past. I have not participated in any government in the past in any of the events from 1990 to 2012. I don't understand why you respect me for anything. It was just your colleagues and colleagues in the last two years, in the past meeting above all and on the Committee on Environmental Protection, who spoke of serious violations at the Environmental Protection Fund. I'm talking about an institution that doesn't need to be abolished because someone might have worked, and maybe he didn't do a bad job. Then we could abolish many institutions in Serbia because some individuals took bribes because some institutions did not work well because they were led by wrong individuals. Unfortunately, institutions must exist and work. It's our job to control them, the Prime Minister or the Parliament, to put the right man at the head of the institution to control the flow of money from entry to exit and to spend it strictly on purpose. He hasn't spent on purpose in the last two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u584	Replica, Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u585	Chairman, I repeat, if you have any knowledge that the Fund has not been used properly in the last two years, you hand it over to the D.A. I'm just saying, during the period when that fund existed within the Agency, and there is today, but only the funds are being controlled differently, and you probably mind, where it was supposed to be paid, it wasn't paid. So no dinar has been paid to institutions dealing with health prevention and environmental protection. These are public health institutions that are on the territory of all Serbia and cover all the districts evenly. That's what I'm talking about. What is the Agency's Fund for if you are on the ground when you call the Environmental Protection Agency you can't get information to send a report to, you can't get information to which person to contact without having no idea at the Agency which is the responsible ministry for a particular question, and that's what happens when you turn the ministry, and they don't know that it explains who is sitting in the Agency and what it is responsible for. Everything was set completely upside down. It was all ad hoc, casual, arbitrary, from moment to time, from situation to situation. But that's why you knew, I don't respect you, and I don't go back in time, to spend your resources in a very perfidious way covered by the legal laws that allowed it at the time because you adopted them so that you could use it for the early-distributory campaigns, for the various propaganda materials "clean Serbia", and you cleaned Serbia to the limit, to the money we need. You've cleared Serbia so we can't lift it from that ash you're talking about, from Obrenovac. (President: Time.) There's one more thing I want to tell you...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u586	Time, Mrs. Wesna, you were looking for a replica. We're done with the replicas. I think you've come out of the context of the amendment. So let's move on. The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Before we move on to the debate, please, according to the Rules of Procedure, Karic. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u587	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Article 109. I asked my colleagues not to speak directly to me. My colleague put me back in the context of some previous time, and she kept talking to me like I did something. Please, you should've intervened and protected me, because I don't know what time my colleague was talking to me, why she was talking to me the whole time. I have never participated in the work of the Environmental Protection Fund, I have not talked about the malversions between 2012 and 2014, but I have talked about the malversions, according to my colleagues from most of them, done before 2012, and I wonder why we haven't arrested and prosecuted anyone for two years. Please allow me, when I look for a replica, when it misjudges what I said or when they misread, that I have the right to replication. I know we're a small number, but that's exactly what it's supposed to be, so we can eventually replicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u588	Mr. Karic, I agree with your recommendation that MPs do not address each other directly. However, it can be concluded that she spoke to you, although she did not appoint you, but I felt that you had come out of the context of the subject of the amendment, and therefore I felt that a further replica should be interrupted. We can do that by tomorrow, we won't get to the finish line. Please appreciate that. I ask all the People's Messengers not to address the other People's Messenger in the debate, for this is how you create conditions for the replication and application of certain punishments. Thank you very much for understanding. Mr. Pavicevic, here's to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u589	Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, we propose that Article 19 be amended in the proposal for a law on ministries proposed by Mr Arsic. In the current proposal, we have the title - International Cooperation, and then we have the 19th article, which contains one description. With our amendment to Article 12, we provided that Article 12 and its contents, which was spoken of by Mr Arsic and which stands in this proposal, are to be changed so that the issue of international co-operation should go there, and in Article 19, according to one of our ideas, there should be only one paragraph and that paragraph describing the functioning of the Republic Statistics Office. We provide that the Republic Statistics Institute shall carry out professional tasks relating to: the adoption of programmes, organisations and implementation of statistical research, i.e. the production of methodologies, collection, processing, statistical analysis and publication of statistical data; the preparation and adoption of unique statistical standards; the development, maintenance and use of republican administrative and statistical registers; the establishment and maintenance of a system of national accounts; the co-operation and professional coordination with authorities and organisations authorised to carry out statistical research; cooperation with international organisations in order to standardise and provide data comparableness; and at the end of the data processing process in order to determine the results of elections and referendums possible at the republican level, as well as other tasks of a certain law. We believe that this replacement should be made, that such a member of the 19th is changed, and that the article 19 goes to the text that we propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u590	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u591	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, this amendment I will try very briefly, in one minute, to present here. Namely, in Article 20. The proposal for a law on ministries, proposed by Mr Arsic, is one description concerning the conclusion and application of international contracts. According to our government structure, and then the texts of the Bill on Ministrys, or the proposal to amend that text, in Article 20, one richer, more extensive description of the functioning of the Republic hydrometeorological institution, and that is the description that exists, is identical, and in the proposal of Mr Arsic, only changes the place, goes into Article 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u592	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u593	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, and this time very briefly. This is an amendment to Article 21 which, in the proposal by Mr Arsic, concerns the preparation and adoption of technical regulations. We have already resolved this issue with our proposal, and Article 21 should go into three paragraphs on what jobs the Republic Geodetic Institute is doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u594	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u595	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, I'm sorry I don't have a little more time for all these amendments, but I can see there's an impatience here. I guess these amendments have been read, so I'm just going to present our proposal here for a little while. We suggest that Article 22 be replaced by the following: The proposal for a law on ministries, submitted by Mr Arsic, changes that care for scientific and research organisations must be elsewhere, and that Article 22 goes to the text identical to the text prepared by Mr Arsic, which concerns the scope of the Republic Property Directorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u596	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 23 and 23 of the amendment. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u597	Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, the 23rd member is the first member in the special section of the proposal for a law on ministries, proposed by Mr Arsic, which concerns special organisations and is now listed in the proposal by these special organisations. Since our proposal by the Government implies that the government should have nine ministries, not 16, as recommended by Mr Arsic, then we have a move of all these institutions, agencies and institutions mentioned here, and according to our proposal, Article 23, should be a relatively short description of the activities of the Mine Action Centre. A very short but very precise description. I hope you'll adopt that amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u598	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u599	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you'll all agree that these amendments are almost legally impossible at this point, because if they adopted this, they would derivate the whole law. But I would vote for this amendment, but one of the promoters is not there. Yeah, he's in the system, but physically, he's not here. I don't know if he walked to Bodrum, to Thessaloniki, he could do it when he was prime minister. And I would like you, the chairman, to remind all MPs, including the former prime minister, of my distinguished fellow farmer, to draw out the card in the future when he leaves the O.R., especially as it comes to the amendment promoter. Three, four of his proposals have passed, and he's not here. I didn't say take out one, I said get everything out, but especially because it's about the amendment promoter. It would be fine if at least the amendment promoter, when he proposes an amendment, would be there while his amendment is being explained. It's not according to the Rules of Procedure, but it doesn't matter, I won't be making a question about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u600	I ask all MPs, there are new MPs here, but they are mandatory when leaving the room to take their card with them. It is the duty of every messenger of the people. I ask the service to look at the cards in the system and take them out. The word is Mr. Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u601	I notice that Mr. Risticevic seems to be in a great dilemma about whether to accept these amendments, all 38, or not to accept. Since he did not talk about the agenda, I call on Article 106, you should warn Mr Risticevic to talk about what is on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u602	Mr. Pavicevic, I don't think it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since it's no longer under this amendment, we're moving on to the next one. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u603	The approved chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, the proposed solutions should contribute to the development of the improvement of the situation in the areas within the section of all ministries and this part of the proposal for a law on ministries is not bad. It is very clear why these ten listed institutions should also have a Republic hydrometeorological institution and a Geodetic Institute and other institutions. We here propose the Republic Geological Institute as a missing institution, which can be of strategic importance and it would be good for it to be in coordination and direct coordination with the Government, because the Geological Institute should carry out research and monitoring of reserves, and this should be owned by the state of Serbia. We forget that natural resources, mineral resources, are the property of the Serbian state. Very often, blinded by some ads, we think some media is owned by the Serbian state, and in fact they are coal, oil, natural gas and mineral raw materials owned by citizens and citizens of Serbia. When this Geological Institute determines value, then we can start a joint capital society for possible exploitation and then share profit from it. We now have some parts of the Serbian firm... . I thank you, but it has no effect. We can start joint ventures and then see what the foreign company invests, not like in Topoli, Arangelovac, Triestenik, Shumadia, that some squares of multinational companies with 500 euros are coming in and are blinding us about how 100 billion euros or dollars are going to get picked up somewhere in Serbia. It doesn't exist. That's why we need the Republic Geological Institute to tell us what the reserves are, how much those reserves are worth, and then eventually get into investment, but with some foreign company that's going to invest real capital.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u604	Thank you. The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 24 and 24 of the amendment together. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u605	I would like for all MPs and, of course, for the citizens of Serbia who are following the Assembly just to clarify this amendment to Article 24. Namely, we are amending Article 2. The proposal for a law on ministries, submitted by Mr. Arsic, envisioned that the Serbian government constitutes nine ministries. But since in this chapter on special organisations we now have descriptions of the work of certain secretariats and directorates, then it happened that in the proposal of Mr Arsic, which concerns the functioning of the Republic Secretariat for Law, we must change the place and in Article 24 we propose to enter a text describing the conduct of the affairs of the Institute of Intellectual Property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u606	Thank you. On behalf of members 25 and 25 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u607	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, in Article 25. Mr Arsic's proposal provides a description of the functioning of the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate. According to our proposal, a description of the functioning of the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate should go second in the proposal for a ministry law, and that we have two very short paragraphs in Article 25 on what kind of jobs the Department of Social Security is doing and then our proposal for a law on the Ministry, or amendments to Mr Arsic's proposal, makes full sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u608	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 25th amendment. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u609	I'll be very brief. It is only about bringing this member into line with the powers of the Ministry of Agriculture and adding one half sentence – supervision of the stock reserves, except for the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, there is the Ministry of Agriculture, but in the part of agricultural and food products. I ask the Proposer to accept this amendment, if possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u610	The word is proposed by the law, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u611	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, considering all the bad experiences we had in the past with the functioning of the stock reserves, the major market disturbances that were happening, the great oscillations in the prices of basic agricultural products, where those who were agricultural producers, where the processing industry, where they were harming, of course, and citizens who are users of such goods, I believe that this amendment would have made better control of the Republic Reserve Directorate, so I accept this amendment as a proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u612	I find that the billmaker has accepted Mr. Marijan Risticevic's amendment and that he has become an integral part of the law. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 26 and 26 of the amendment. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u613	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, I just want to take this opportunity to say that our amendments to articles 26 to 33 are identical and that each of them says that they are. 26, 27, all the way down to 33. So, I would just now say it for all those seven or eight members, or amendments to members, and I wouldn't answer to explain it individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u614	Thank you, too. On behalf of the 27th and 27th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 28th and 28th of the amendment. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 29 and 29 of the amendment. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 30 and 30 of the amendment. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 31 and Article 31 of the amendment. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 31. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Proposer accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members of the 32nd and of the 32nd Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted their name from Articles 33 and 33 of the amendment. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Ivan Karic has tabled an amendment proposing that new titles and a new member of 33a be added after article 33. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u615	I thank the esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, as I just said earlier, this fourth chapter of the special organization is not so poorly prepared and presented. We really think that there is a lack here of the Republic Geological Institute as one institution of national importance that could take care of the work of other ministries in the manner in which the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, the Republic Geodetic Institute, and therefore consider it important that we give a description of the work that the Republic Geological Institute should perform on the mineral raw material-resury base of geologists, the Republic Geological Institute. So we can have research related to the estimated reserves. That they are, I'm not just talking about research and reserves now, but about all natural resources, that they are the property of Serbian citizens. That one ministry can't decide to give a concession or sell a mineral complex. That when we establish a certain value, we establish a joint venture of capital, if there is a need for it, and then we seek a partner who will bring either modern environmental technology or bring real money for real investment. Today, we have mechanics in Serbia dealing with the alleged exploitation of mineral raw materials that have registered companies of five hundred euros, and are telling us about investments of several tens of hundreds of billions of dollars, euros. In all the local self-governments of Topola via Arangelovac, Užica, Čajetin, Trstenik, Vranjčka Banja, such contracts and such proposals have been rejected almost everywhere in all municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u616	Thank you. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u617	In this amendment, we have no text to delete, but this, I think, is a very important amendment and I ask for a little attention, since this amendment provides a kind of continuity in the functioning of the previous government, or one that is still, which still exists and one that we will, hopefully, choose soon. So the amendment envisions that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior remain as ministries in the Serbian government, that the finance ministry, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications are in some way being transferred. In other words, they continue to work on the day of entry into force of this law, but as part of the Ministry of Finance and Economy. We believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office for European Integration should continue their work as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. We believe that the Ministry of Transport, part of the Ministry of Natural Resources, mining and spatial planning, should continue their work as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Natural Resources. That the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government as well as part of the Ministry of Justice and State Administration should continue their work as the Ministry of Justice, Human Rights, State Administration and Local Self-Government. We have an existing Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and we believe that this ministry and that part of the Ministry of Natural Resources, Mining and Spatial Planning as well as part of the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection should continue their work as Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Spatial Planning. We have two other ministries that take over parts of the ministry that exist or the ministry as a whole, which are still the Ministry of Health, Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Science, Education and Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u618	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 34. At the session of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Proposer accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u619	Here I would just like to say in one sentence that it was necessary to delete certain members of the Bill on the Ministry submitted by Mr Arsic since our proposal for the formation of the Government had seven ministries less than this proposal was submitted by Mr Arsic and it was necessary that some members simply did not live. I suggest that Article 35, and that is our amendment to Article 35, as well as the next amendment to Article 36, is deleted, and then I will not report for amendment to Article 36. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u620	Thank you. One small intervention. Since the legislator of this law, Mr. Arsic, accepted the 25th amendment submitted by Marijan Risticevic, I have found that it is becoming an integral part of the law, however, I have made a mistake where the Assembly will declare itself in the voting day, so it is an correction in this regard. Thank you. Members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u621	The bottom line of my amendment is to delete the part about erasing the National Equality Authority. We listened a lot, it seems to me that the most qualitative part of today's debate was between colleagues, both the opposition and positions on whether there should be a management or whether there should be another way to continue the fight for greater gender equality in our society. I think that's exactly what this discussion has shown us in politics, in the Assembly when there are more women and women actively engage in politics. I don't want to spoil that impression, but I'd like to invite you to vote for my amendment, because as far as I can see, there are ideas in which the fight for greater gender equality should continue, but today we don't have a concrete proposal. My suggestion is to keep this administration until a better solution is found in future time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u622	Thank you. Members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposer and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u623	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, this is also a very important amendment. There is no equivalent member in the draft law on Mr Arsic's ministries, on what is written in this amendment to Article 37, and I will read the text. Therefore, Article 37 of our proposal should read: “The ministries established by this law, employed and appointed persons, as well as rights, obligations, items, equipment, means of work and archive, shall take over from the ministries which have ceased their work, and in accordance with established competences.” This was necessary for us to put our proposal of this law on ministries, namely Mr Arsic's proposal, but our amendments have been amended as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u624	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 37. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I can see that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) A group of 132 MPs of the SNS group submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u625	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the time of the vote is coming, or the time of the debate on the Ministry Act is coming to an end, and I see that MPs are slowly gathering in the O.R. My amendment refers to the fact that this ministry law, in transitional and final provisions, has been abolished by the Diaspora Office and Serbs and the region. As we have been dealing with the issue of Serbia's citizens all day and how they will live in the coming period, i.e. how the state will take care of them, I think that the state's attitude towards Serbs who do not live in Serbia, who have remained beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, most of them, around two million, have remained living in Croatia, BiH, Macedonia, Slovenia and some other countries bordering the Republic of Serbia. Serbia is obliged to take care of it according to the Constitution and the Diaspora Law with Serbs in the region. Any serious state that has a serious diaspora, that is, part of its entity that lives outside the borders, does so. This is what Israel does, it is Italy, Hungary and all other countries, and even some of them have representatives in the highest legislative body, and some have special ministries, but they have a mechanism for protecting them. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – NDS, ZZS and ZS, submitted several quality amendments related to other areas. We are asking MPs of the largest positioning party, the SNS and the SPS to reconsider and to support these amendments today when they vote. However, I consider it a great responsibility for these two parties to the fact that they will today push the button to shut down the last institution that was supposed to take care of Serbs outside Serbia. Two years ago, you abolished the Ministry of Diaspora and Serbs in the region and said you were creating a new institution, the diaspora office and Serbs in the region to take care of them. Today you will also lift the diaspora office and Serbs in the region. Many of you don't know that. Why? Because it is not in the transitional and final provisions. I was particularly surprised when, reading this law, I found it in transitional and final provisions. What will happen to this office, the people, the tables, the carpets, will be taken over by the administration, or some administration at the Foreign Office. Today, from the SNS MPs, we heard that the Agency for Gender Equality will grow into a larger form of office, and here we have one reverse case, the Office will turn into Administration. It will not be formed specifically, but will drown in some administration, and it should take care of four million Serbs living outside Serbia's borders. Many of them have relatives in Serbia as well, and they are deeply concerned about the issue. I think it is distasteful to talk about the fact that the diaspora gives a foreign inflow to Serbia and that this is practically the greatest potential in terms of the foreign inflow of Serbia. Unfortunately, it's not export. However, I must say that the state of Serbia, according to both the Constitution and the law that I have mentioned, is obliged to take care of Serbs in Croatia, BiH and other countries in the neighbourhood, is obliged to take care of the fact that a Cyrillic will be used as a letter in Vukovar or Knin, will children be able to school in Serbian, will Serbian institutions live, etc.? The Council for Serbs in the region in the past two years, under obligations under the Diaspora Act, is required to meet every three months. He only met once. So instead of eight times, he met once. The second time he met when it was a constitutive session, that is, the first time. It shows concern for these people. Dear MPs of the ruling coalition, especially MPs who are members of the Diaspora Committee and Serbs in the region, will not list them, their names, because you know well who they are and you know that they should take care of these people because they have a special responsibility. But the fact is that we were all dissatisfied that the Diaspora Office and Serbs in the region were run, but that doesn't mean that it needs to be abolished, and in that way, someone said, we can stop many ministries, maybe even the Assembly didn't work very well, so we won't end it, but it worked well. So, there is no way for the Diaspora Office and Serbs in the region to be abolished because the director of the office was badly working, which I can agree with, which took a little care of those people I spoke about, but is a way to make sure that Serbs living outside Serbia are cared for as Hungary, which has a special body directly subordinated to the Prime Minister and which invests significant resources in the education of Hungarian children living outside the border of Hungary and is similar to other countries. I mean Slovenia, Italy. I think this act is very serious, and I ask you to consider voting for this amendment and leaving an opportunity to remain an institution that will take care of these people. This cannot be mended by people living outside Serbia's borders, and unfortunately only Serbian citizens can vote in this assembly, because those citizens outside Serbia do not have a representative in the Serbian Parliament, so I ask you once again, because the biggest responsibility over the ruling coalition's party is to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u626	The head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic, reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u627	For decades, the state of Serbia has led the wrong policy towards the diaspora. For decades, this wrong policy has been shown through a given hand, share, give, give, help. For decades, the diaspora has been seen as a milk cow. From the loan for Serbia's economic rebirth, and that is, the money that has been entering the state of Serbia for years, but I would be much happier if that money had been invested in production, in factories, that it had hired people in Serbia, and not as before every year that money coming from the diaspora was given to the people in Serbia to survive, so that their relatives, children, elderly parents would have something to live on and to eat. The Serbian Progressive Party wants to change that policy, wants to send a strong and clear message to the diaspora that we will create an atmosphere and a business climate in ours so that wealthy people, our people who are a lifetime, are now generations working across countries abroad, that the money they have acquired, bring to Serbia, invest, employ people and earn money in Serbia. We don't want Serbia putting its hand on anyone. We don't want Serbia to beg. The Serbian Progressive Party wants to hire Serbia. The government wants to hire people in Serbia, because we are a decent people, a people who are eager to work, eager to work, and therefore no regulation, no agency, no administration, no office, no form will help unless the policy changes, unless the relationship to the diaspora changes, unless the relationship to the business changes, unless the course of our country is determined. We saw where the agencies took us. We saw where the administrations took us, the offices. What were they for? For the employment of party staff, godfathers, friends, what's wrong, and then it hurt when my colleague Obradovic asked very well – and what are the effects? And now they're going to ask about the past and they're going to ask about the future. We're interested in the results. Serbia is interested in winning. The Serbian Progressive Party, the future government of the Republic of Serbia, is interested in hiring people in Serbia to create an atmosphere so that people from the diaspora don't come to the office, but to come to their own country, to their factories, to our businesses, where people in Serbia work, where people in Serbia earn money. Now, that's a change of course and it won't change the vote for one or another amendment. This will define a change in course and will change new policies and the new government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u628	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragomir Karic. Here you go. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. I'm sorry, you're not mentioned. You have no right to a replica. According to the amendment, MP Dragomir Karic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u629	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the respected viewers, there have been several attempts for the last 25 years to help our citizens in the debate or, as we now popularly call it, in the diaspora. However, we also had the diaspora ministries and the office. It did not produce results, but not because people here are unable to organise this ministry or diaspora office. First of all, in the diaspora itself, there are hundreds of organizations of our citizens in the form of associations, conventions, all-Serb conventions, universal conventions, and others. The fact is one simple and simple. When, dear colleague, you mentioned Hungary and other countries, it's true, it's all arranged. What was missing in Serbia and what is missing today in Serbia? There are no great conditions for investment, investment conditions. There is a simple climate missing to invest and fertilize what they would bring. You're aware. We are all aware, citizens, that our diaspora people have been deceived countless times. Remember only the savings of the currency of 10 billion marks, which later returned normally to nothing for years, etc. So, what do you need? It doesn't matter at all that diaspora office, or the ministry. I believe that Serbia always has the means to do so if it is necessary. But this is about something else. They need programmes and I believe that the new government will bring in such programs and have such an investment climate that these citizens who come from abroad can safely invest their money in new production plants and employ themselves and their families. That's what they need. They need a guarantee for the funds invested and I believe that this government will provide them and I believe that your amendment is unnecessary at this point, too much, that there is no need for us to vote and to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u630	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u631	Since you do not allow me the replica, although I think I was right, I will use the time of the parliamentary group and the authorised representative. Dear gentlemen, we didn't understand each other at first. Either you don't understand the terms or you're deliberately turning the subject around. When I said diaspora and Serbs in the region, I always said these three or four words. You just mentioned the diaspora. So in the diaspora of Serbs in the region, it's not just people who need to bring money, Mr. Karic. So it's not just some multibillionaires who left Serbia, so they did it in Russia, America and on various other continents. It is also a Serb in Knin, in Grazac, in Kordun, Banija, in Drvar, in Sarajevo, in Trebinj, etc., not to mention. No money can be brought to Serbia, but it would be convenient for their children to have books, to learn Serbian. It would be convenient if there was an institution that would take care of them and someone who would visit them. You're shutting down a special institution today that was supposed to take care of them. Mr. Karic and Mr. Granny, what are you talking about? So you shut down the institution and you say -- Serbia will have the power to attract investments, it will be free. What kind of investment? So, I specifically emphasized it. I said, it's untasty for me to talk about inviting foreign investors and having someone take them in. Of course that's what the state needs to secure. I said first of all that the state is obliged to provide care for Serbs living outside Serbia's borders, with various circumstances, the most wartime circumstances. Of course, it is also required to take care of Serbs who are not Serbian nationalities, who have gone to other countries of the world and Serbs who have left and are now diaspora, but are two different categories. Two million Serbs live outside Serbia's borders, which are now beyond Serbia's borders. Serbs in Vukovar are not in Serbia and are not diaspora. The law recognizes them as Serbs in the region, and diaspora are people who went to work, to school and others there. That's two different categories, gentlemen. Some are more endangered, they are threatened by identity, faith, letter, etc. You've talked about it a lot in the past. How are we going to take care of them in the next period? To whom will the MP or representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the president of the municipality in Plaška, etc? Which door are they gonna knock on, what office? Where's he gonna show up? So it's not just about diaspora. It's about the fact that you're shutting down the last institution that was supposed to take care of Serbs outside Serbia. Small funds have so far been invested in culture, education, etc., and in the previous government, and that government and that one. I agree with that, but that doesn't mean we should shut down the institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u632	Mr. Veselinovic, just to give the information that you've wasted your time. National MP Dragomir Karic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u633	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues, normally, I would not want through this replica and through this amendment, through this topic which is important for many citizens in the diaspora, for us in Serbia, to discuss this course. No one from Serbia, at least I know, has gone as a billionaire and in any case the fact is, going in the opposite direction. This is where people come in, invest, and they've been around a lot, so for the last 30 years, they've been fooled. The fact is, why doesn't this office need to exist? I'll just explain. We have the Ministry of Education, we have the Ministry of Culture, we have the Ministry of Youth and Sports, we have the Ministry of Business, we have the Ministry of Finance, we have the 16 ministries. Anyone who wants to solve their problem will address the competent ministry. Since people in the diaspora are mostly written and capable, because they remain exclusively capable, it's not funny at all, believe me, it's not, you didn't eat that bread and you don't know what it is. Therefore, nothing here is violated, no right or something is abolished. If that could have brought about a improvement and done good for that diaspora, that would have been during the reign when two years ago they were in the power of your colleagues. So that wouldn't be controversial. It's just that, these agencies have accumulated, these offices enough, and we have the departments in charge, and I don't see why they have to make surrogates.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u634	Mr. Karic, time's up. Thank you. The word has been given by the MP head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u635	The state of Serbia has shown its desire to build the best relations with countries in the region. This has also been proven by visits that took place in Belgrade, but also by capitals in the environment. Serbia-Montenegro's relations, according to the president of the two states, have never been on a better level in the last 20 years, with Macedonia as well, with Croatia as well. I was pleased to hear the presentation of President Josipovic in this House. In addition to the ambassadors of our countries in those countries, who have both the obligation and the right and the duty to care for our communities in those countries, besides the foreign ministry, the most important instance and the most important institution that cares for Serbs in the region is the entire government of the Republic of Serbia, building the best inter-neighbor relations and relations not only in the region, but with all the countries in the world. I appreciate that someone cares about Serbs in the region, but in the past, unfortunately, we had governments that not only didn't care about Serbs in the region, unfortunately, they didn't care about Serbs in Serbia, and that care was reflected in the way that we don't form offices, offices, agencies, hire, buy expensive cars, make projects as explained by our colleague Obradovic, but really essentially fight for the best of relations, for economic integration with all the countries in the region, and thus the members of the Serb community in all countries and the environment will be treated far better. I made it clear to the diaspora that no one could convince me of, because there was no argument, that it was not in the sense of hands and demands and expectations and beggings. The Serbian Progressive Party wants to change that course and make it a way that we will create a good enough investment climate in Serbia, for employment, but that these people can in their country and make profits, not give charity. These are two directions that no office, no agency, no form can change, because the essence is in good neighbourly relations with all countries in Serbia's environment and creating a good climate that people who want to invest don't have to go back, but they can return their money, enlarge it here and employ people in Serbia to make such a climate and make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u636	The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u637	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think the opposition's MPs have understood the fundamental change of policy towards diaspora and Serbs in the region for this amendment. I'll be very brief and specific, to say what the new government, which will be chosen, will essentially take care of these people. First, let me say that I agree with the government's proposal that this is resolved by the Foreign Affairs Ministry. Secondly, as far as the region is concerned, we already have one office, it's for migration and for refugees and displaced persons. It would be good, among other things, to see what the Diaspora Office has done for the Serbs in the diaspora, not now, but rather for the former ministry, if you want even on national rights. We aim for the EU, and the basis of EU members are national rights. You can see that Serbs in Romania have extremely good national rights because Romania is in the EU. That's what we're trying to do. At the moment we had the Ministry of Diaspora, the worst rights national were Serbs in the diaspora and in the region. Therefore, I believe that through individual bodies, agencies and offices, funds have gone into some other hands. Remember only the World Organisation of Serbs, and there was a centre here in Belgrade, where the funds went and where they went, least to Serbs, and most to those who represented those organisations. So this is about fundamental change. When it comes to national letter and language, it is the basis of EU members. We will best fight through our representatives and our political ones, so to speak, the parties in the countries of origin and related to our foreign affairs. This is where the fundamental relationship changes. What Mr Babic said is changing in terms of EU policy, and one of the foundations is national EU rights. So we'll get bigger. As for the evasive and displaced faces, that's where we have the Commissioner. It would be interesting to look at the prosecutor's office and see where the funds went, leak the last ten years and those who represented those interests. This is about fundamental policy change. I think this is an extremely good government realised and the worst success we have just had in this field when we have the Ministry of Diaspora and Serbs in the region and offices, etc., and the biggest rights of Serbs in the region will be obtained when our country and region become members of the EU, because national rights are one of the fundamental rights of the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u638	Thank you. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 38th amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u639	Tell me from the time of the parliamentary group or the authorised representative, is there any time left? (President: Time has been spent. And the MP groups and the authorised representative? (President: Yes. I certainly believe that since these two amendments are related, this is a reckless government decision. Good relations with neighbours do not mean that neighbours will always end up caring for members of the Serb people. We have good relations now with the Republic of Croatia, and I am not sure that Serbs are satisfied with their position in Croatia. We have excellent relations with Slovenia, so there are still some who call themselves nameless and do not have personal documents. We have excellent relations with Hungary, so they are not the great relations of Serbs in Hungary. For example, BiH is not in the European Union, as we call for one day to protect our countrymen in the European Union. What does the Migration and Refugee Commissioner have to do with Serbs in the region? The Migration Commissioner takes care of refugees, so people who live here and immigrants who are usually from Asia, Africa. So they have nothing to do with Serbs in the region. In this regard, I expect the prime minister tomorrow in his presentation, I hope that he will devote a few minutes to this topic, to say that he will be able to take care of Serbs in the diaspora and Serbs in the region, because it is not a small national interest. I think that every government would have to put it, a country government like Serbia, which has a large diaspora and a resolution, on the agenda among the priorities and that tomorrow we will get an answer from the prime minister about how it will deal with Serbs in the region and the diaspora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u640	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u641	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not essential that we worry about Serbs in the region whether we have the Ministry of Diaspora and Serbs in the region, the Office for Diaspora and Serbs in the region, or whether we have the diaspora and Serbs in the region, which is planned for these amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. We had the Ministry of Diaspora and Serbs in the region by 2012. What has made it possible for the ministry to achieve the seized property, acquired, status and any other rights of hundreds of thousands of expelled Serbs from Croatia and the Federation of BiH? Did the Ministry of Diaspora and Serbs in the region, which I repeat existed until 2012, help pay off 50,000 unpaid, and the pensions of expelled Serbs? Did the ministry help to obtain damages for 10,000 broken-down Serbian houses in terrorist actions outside of the war in Croatia? Did the ministry help to return 40,000 seized tenant rights to Serbs in Croatia? Did the ministry help bring back 800,000 catastrian plots taken from Serbian countries in Croatia, in the Krajina area? Did the ministry help pay for tens of thousands of Serb families seized dinar and foreign savings? Did the ministry help prevent Serbs from eradicating their residence records in Croatia? Did the ministry insist and help Croatia respect its own constitutional law on the rights of populated minorities, which was brought in 2002, and which guarantees the proportional representation of Serbs in the bodies of local self-government and bilingualism? It didn't help. Did the ministry help Serbs in the Federation of BiH not be citizens of the second order, that Serbs in the Federation of BiH, who have been a constituent people since 2003, be proportionally represented in the institutions of local self-government, canton and the entire Federation? It didn't help. So, Serbs in Croatia, in the Federation of BiH, are citizens of the second order. They cannot exercise their basic human rights, but the ministry of diaspora and Serbs in the region has done nothing to solve these problems. When we saw an active state policy by 2012 in solving these problems. By 2012, we had a policy of false reconciliation by the regime in Belgrade, over the back of hundreds of thousands of expelled Serbs. Nothing on that plan has happened. Now some colleagues here in the Assembly are saying that form is essential. If we take the Republic of Croatia, which is known as a state that cares for Croats outside Croatia and Croats in the diaspora, it has no diaspora and Croats in the region, it has no office as an institution, but has a Croatian Authority in BiH and a diaspora within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Veselinović, you can look freely at the Croatian Ministry of Foreign Affairs site, meaning as part of the ministry. The essence of the story is state policy. So, half a million expelled Serbs living in Serbia from Croatia and the Federation of BiH, more than 100,000 citizens of Serbia who are neither native nor native to Croatia or the Federation of BiH, but have spent some of their lives in those parts of their lives from 1945 to 1990 and are now seeking their basic property rights, destroyed houses, cottages, apartments, dinar and foreign savings, etc. So, we expect the government of Mr. Vukic to be the first government of the Republic of Serbia since the end of the war in BiH and Croatia to lead a clean account policy, which will lead an active protection and fight to achieve the property acquired and status rights of damaged Serbs. Only by active state policy is it possible to solve these problems. So, we expect constant dialogue, we expect these problems to come to the table, to be discussed in a real function, not false reconciliation between Serbia, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the essence of the whole story. What form it's going to be, it's less important. I repeat, we had the Ministry, nothing helped us solve our problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u642	The word is made by MP Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u643	Madam Chairman, I was simply encouraged by this debate to say what I think of this amendment submitted by Dr. Vesenovic. So, on the one hand, and firstly, it can be said that it's a little odd to cancel the Diaspora Office, given the importance of this issue for our country and for our country's dissipating countrymen. What should be, I think, the test of the modern state administration, among other things, and when we look at the organograms of all modern state administrations, including the foreign ministry, is that the structure monitors jobs, not business structures. So, if the structure follows jobs, and trust me, if you go to the Foreign Ministry site, you'll find out what all the network of diplomatic and consular representations of ours in the world should do and what it means for our fellow nations in dissipation. It also means to them the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and consular obligations, which we as a state provide to our country's compatriots, and all other obligations that represent the state of Serbia for them in this dispersion, then the structure should indeed follow jobs. These are the affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. the network of diplomatic and consular offices. What they didn't do well, that's our problem, so it's our problem together and our government. That's why I think a kind of reduction of those jobs that the Office does in this case, at the same time as what should be the foreign ministry's task, should somehow be tied up. I know it's not easy to do right now and there's still going to be intertwinations, but I really think this is one functional test that should help us modernise our state administration. I really think it's a matter of, I don't see that anywhere there's an intensity that in any way is minorized or that our countrymen are neglected, some of them are citizens, some of them are not, in dispersion. That's the point of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u644	You have to say on what basis you're looking for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u645	Replica, I've been mentioned twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u646	What you're mentioning is not a basis for replication. You must have been referring to Article 104 in an offensive way. The name and last name of each of us are allowed to be mentioned in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u647	It's about my amendment. I was asked a question, and on the other hand, my discussion was interpreted and you don't give me an answer. So this is a new practice in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u648	It's not a new practice at all, it's a new practice not to abuse, to get a new time. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u649	I give up the right to speak of such an important matter, because of your will to interpret the Rules of Procedure in your way.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u650	Thank you for your understanding and for letting you speak after that decision I made not to give you the right to replication. A group of 130 MPs from the SNS group submitted to the 38th amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 39. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Proposer accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u651	Thank you very much. We are at the threshold of voting, and this will be the first law, namely the first two laws that we will adopt, and it would be very bad to do so against the Constitution, which would be contrary to the Constitution if our amendment to Article 41 that reads - this law takes effect the next day, from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". The bill provides a solution that this law applies from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger", not from the day after the publication of the bad solution. First, it's against the constitution. In Article 196. Paragraph 4 states that the laws are valid for eight days from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger", unless there is a very reasonable reason to begin to apply earlier, and as a reason for that shorter period here, it is stated in your proposal for a law that not adopting this law by emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations. It's pointless. There's a technical government and it can work for another two, three months. There is no threat to the work of organs and organizations, on the contrary. This is just one rape to elect a government tomorrow. There is one solution that is possible, although it would be one higher level of political rape, that the law applies from the moment of adoption, but I don't think there's any need for that. The logical solution is that if we are not already waiting eight days for the law to apply from the day of publication in "The Official Messenger". This is how we're going to have a problem, that if a solution is given, we don't know from what point of time this law is in force.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u652	Time. I'm obliged to warn you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u653	We don't know at which time this "Official Messenger" was printed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u654	Thank you. You had 16 seconds longer. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I could even agree with my previous colleague in a lot of things, but do we really have that kind of time? Serbia no longer has a moment to lose. Maybe it looks like a flossula to you. See what it looks like to pay off loans today that the Republic of Serbia is paying off, which were raised in 2005, 2006, 2007. Just in March of the month about 170m euros and every month it is. I totally agree that he may be in a hurry, but we don't have the time like Vojislav Kostunica had to rule for three or four months. We need a government as soon as it takes responsibility as possible, a government that will fulfill what has been promised in the elections, and I don't see what's at stake, will the President of the Republic of Serbia sign a bill today or tomorrow? You'll still have to ask the President of the Republic. As far as we're concerned, this legal solution is perfectly fine. It's existing.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u656	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u657	I cannot agree with the amendment of the applicant. For one reason I understand some legal illiteracy, but to this day this Assembly as well as all the congregations before this Assembly have adopted and proposed that the law enter into force on the day of its publication in the “Official Messenger” and I absolutely do not see what it is against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u658	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Government You have received amendments submitted by MPs Gordana Comić, Branka Karavidić, Ivan Karić and Biljana Hasanovic Korać. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u659	Thank you. The amendments to the Law on Government are in one article which reads in the basic proposed text – the Prime Minister can set up a council on economic development, a council on state authorities and public services and other councils. The amendment, which I submit, is to add a sentence – the composition of the council is determined by the act on its establishment so that at least 30% of the members of the council who are members of the gender who are less represented in the council must be represented. This amendment is ideally coming to everything we have heard and has the weight of a public spoken word that the policy of a comprehensive approach, a constitutional solution to the policy of equal opportunities, is intended to work through each ministry and the task of each minister. I repeat here that I will stick very firmly to the promises I have heard and every minister will ask what it gives in its ministry as a result of the application of birth policies. This amendment, which is before you, allows us all to commit ourselves together, to support brilliant, professional women who are otherwise few who see when to make appointment proposals, proposals for positions in such an important body as the government's advice can set up. If we are really behind the words we share, when we say that there will be organisational structures instead of the Agency for Gender Equality, then this amendment is an ideal opportunity for all of us to show the works that we want Serbian women, their knowledge, their good will, their expertise, their responsibility, that we want them mandatory in the government. We also want to be 30% of men, if whoever proposes advice sees how many great women are available who deserve to put their knowledge and abilities in the service of work in the government's council. That's why I'm pleased that these two laws go one by one and allow every chance to prove that it's important what's done, not what's said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u660	I wasn't interrupting. I assume you've been using the MP's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u661	No more time, but thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u662	You've got a little bit. Thank you. National MPs Branko Karavidic, Ivan Karic and Biljana Hasanovic, together submitted the 1st amendment. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u663	Dear Presidents, MPs, the amendments of this single member of the Government Act allow the Prime Minister to set up other councils for economic development and the Council for State Authorities and Public Service. Of course, our parliamentary group does not at all dispute that need for the establishment of the Council. Furthermore, it explains that the selection of those persons will have a very high criterion and that they will be chosen based on their competences and other qualities that qualify them for it. It is explained that no additional resources are needed to implement this law. My colleagues and I have made an amendment requiring the Government to report within 30 days to the National Assembly which should contain the name of the council to be set up, the composition of the council and the way in which the council is financed. I'm afraid this time we've broken out the possibility given to this National Assembly for it to be a control body. I don't understand why the promoter didn't take this proposal into account. I think it's for the general benefit not only of the Assembly and not only of the citizens but of the government itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u664	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u665	Thank you. I'll try to be as short as possible. I think the promoter could consider this amendment of the opposition MPs for the reason that his goal is good, with what he has, I must admit, some shortcomings. I think it should have been inserted to submit the report to the National Assembly within the meaning of the National Assembly's committee, to deliver, for example, an annual report in addition to this 30-day report. Thanks for this. [[President: Please, there is really nothing more to be heard.]] In this place, I have to point out that yesterday I said that the DHSS would support a bill like this, and it's only one change and it's nothing questionable. For example, the occasional working bodies of the government report to the committees in charge. On the other hand, I have to say the Law on the National Assembly to my Article 15, which regulates the responsibilities of the National Assembly, namely the National Assembly, determines as the most legislative and constitutional body, and if the control function of the National Assembly is being supervised by the work of the Government, then I think that the promoter should consider one such amendment, although I personally consider it incomplete. In this place, I will take another chance to say that as the National Branch of GOPAK, there are many MPs who make up the National Section of GOPAK just when signing the Charter in the presence of John Williams, we have put an accent on what the National Assembly in its primary form should do, which is to strengthen the control function of the National Assembly over the work of the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-26-0.u666	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded a debate on the agenda points of the session, pursuant to Article 87(5). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 26 April 2014, starting at 1803, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 170 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present. My apologies, colleague, the system has shown how many MPs there are regardless of what we see otherwise. We're moving on to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF MINISTRATIVES After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on ministries to the vote, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 182, v – 20 abstentions – there is no, no vote – one of the 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments: Article 9 submitted by MP Marijan Rističević, MP Dr Gordana Zoric and a group of 132 MPs of the SNS Group; member of 37, who submitted a group of 132 MPs of the SNS Group; member of the 38, who submitted a group of 130 MPs of the SNS Group; to Articles 2, 3, 10, 14, 31, 34, 37 and 39, submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. I also remind you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has rejected the amendment to the 9th National MP, Snezana Malovic, and the rejected amendment in accordance with Article 163(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly cannot be discussed and are not voted upon. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against – seven, abstention – one, did not vote – 187, out of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, abstentioned - two, have voted - 192, of the total attendance of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 186, out of 203 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Snezana Malovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – three, abstention – one, did not vote – 185, of the total attendance of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 190 of the 203 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Branko Karavidic, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Ivan Karic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted – 187, of the 202 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted— 193, of the total attendance of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted— 197, of the total attendance of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Branka Karavidić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Marko Djurisic submitted to the 4th and Article 39th amendments. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – one, abstention – one, did not vote – 187, of the total attendance of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 5th Amendment, MP Gordana Comic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 184, of the 203 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted— 195, of the 203 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Branko Karavidic, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Ivan Karic and Aleksandar Senic submitted the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 187, out of a total of 203 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title and Article 5a be added after article 5. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 184, of a total of 201 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 6th and 6th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted – 195, of the 202 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Ivan Karic and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 189, of the 202 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 194 of the 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Ivan Karic and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare that -12, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 190 of the 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 194 of the 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 9th and Article 9th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 195 out of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 189 out of a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 10th and Article 10th of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 191 out of a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 189 out of a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 193 of the 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 194 of the 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted an amendment proposing that a new part III be added after Article 11, as well as to the title above Articles 12 and 12. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 187 out of a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against - no one with abstentions - voted 193 of the 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the title above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 193 of the 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted an amendment proposing that a new part of IV be added after article 14, as well as to the name above Articles 15 and 15. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 193 of the 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th and 16th Amendment were jointly appointed by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 194 out of the 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -17, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 183 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -15, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 185 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 194 out of the 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 18 and of the 18th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - none, with abstentions - one, did not vote 191 out of a total of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Branka Karavidic, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Ivan Karic and Aleksandar Senic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new title and a new member of 18a be added after article 18a. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 186 out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 191 out of the 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 20th and Article 20th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - none of the abstentions - had voted 194 of the 199 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the super-members 21 and Article 21 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - none, with abstentions - one, did not vote 192 of the 200 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the super-members 22nd and Article 22nd amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote 193 of the 201 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title of the 23rd and 23rd amendments was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 191 out of a total of 201 MPs present for -10. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -17, against – no one, with abstention – voted 184 of the 201 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the super-members 24th and Article 24th, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did 192 of the present 201 MPs vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the super-members 25th and Article 25th, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 190 of the 201 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 25th amendment. The promoter has accepted this amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 24 of the 203 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On behalf of the super-member 26th and Article 26th, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 196 of the 204 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 27th and 27th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote 196 of the 204 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the super-members 28th and Article 28th, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 195 of the 201 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the vice-members 29th and Article 29th, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did 195 of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the top 30th and Article 30th amendments, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 193 of the 204 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the super-member 31st and member of the 31st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - ten, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 194 of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I ask the MPs to be quiet and allow me to continue my work. On behalf of the super-members 32nd and Article 32nd, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did 195 of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the super-members 33rd and member of the 33rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - ten, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 194 of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Karic tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and a new member of 33a be added after article 33. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 190 of the 204 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did 195 of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did 195 of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did 195 of the 204 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none, abstention – none, 189 of the 204 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, abstention - none, 195 of the 204 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – none, abstention – none, 190 of the 204 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – none, abstention – none, 190 of the 204 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none, abstention – none, 189 of the 204 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The decision of the National Assembly on becoming particularly justified reasons for the entry into force within eight days of the day of its publication. I remind you he's a member of 41. The bill provides for this law to take effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 183 against – 16, abstention – none, not voted – five of the 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on ministers in general to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 185, v – 18, abstentions – none, one of the 204 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on ministries. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Government since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending the Government Act in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 185, v – 18, abstentions – none, one of the 204 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 187 of the 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Ivan Karic and Biljana Hasanovic – Koraić. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – none, abstention – none, 190 of the 204 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you it's Article 2. The bill provides for this law to enter into force of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 185, against – 16, the abstentions – none of them voted three MPs from a total of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly justified reasons for the law being represented in force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Government Act as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 185, v – 18, abstentions – none, one of the 204 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Government Act. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND THE Deputy MEMBER STATES OF THE National COMMUNITY OF SERBIA As the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all the MPs, also performs other electoral powers. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS Parliamentary Group. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 198, against – two abstentions – there are no, three of the 203 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly adopted a draft decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group, by majority of the votes of all MPs. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Olgica Batic, at a session on 26 April 2014, at 13.05 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – four, abstentions – there is no vote, 195 of the total attendance of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Djukanovic, at a session on 26 April 2014, at 13.10 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – three abstentions – has voted 184 of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Olgica Batić, at a session on 26 April 2014, at 13.20 p.m., pointed to an injury. 105, 27 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – five, abstention – one, 178 of the 187 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Let me remind you that tomorrow's session starts at 11:00. Please come on time.
