ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda and adopting the minutes exist if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 161 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10738	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in the first place I must ask the President, if at all possible, to influence ministers in order to receive answers to parliamentary questions within a timely period, which are very clearly regulated by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Since I asked the parliamentary question on July 29th, the finance minister is today on October 21st, the answer to the asked parliamentary question has not yet been received. I hope it won't be a practice, at least not in the future. In this place, I ask my question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, primarily the finance minister. I think he's the most invited and most competent to give me detailed information on what I'm going to ask him. In fact, what is the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if there is such an attitude, on the status of the “Agrobank” shareholder and whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia is considering, planning, finding the modalities precisely to compensate for the damage to domestic and foreign shareholders who have lost their private stock assets in this affair, in fact whose private stock assets and brutally and arrogantly robbed? Namely, the National Bank of Serbia introduced a forced payment to Agrobanks in December 2011 due to the inability to collect loans previously granted. In late May 2012, the bank was shut down, and we all know that the famous "New Agrobank" founded by the country of Serbia with 85m euros, while the capital of fivem euros in the same "Agrobank" was invested by the Deposit Insurance Agency. What is also known is that in October 2012 a bankruptcy was launched against "New Agrobank". If the fight against crime and corruption would in this case not only remain a dead letter on paper or just a mere election promise, the state can prove otherwise only if it does something on this issue the moment it finally answers the shareholders' demands. I must also add that everyone is familiar with the fact, at least through means of public information, that these same shareholders have sent a number of correspondence between the EU governments and their parliaments, their ambassadors, their businesses. If EU representatives have already expressed their gratitude, because the memos of the Agrobanks shareholder allow them to realistically see how the rule of law is being implemented in the Republic of Serbia, then it is difficult for us to talk about the already mentioned fight against corruption in this case, until finally something is taken over, as priority under Chapters 23 and 24. The issue being raised is right and where did he end up mentioning the capital of domestic and foreign shareholders of Agrobank? In fact, let's be honest, so let's call things a real name, it's an organized crime robbery, and the shareholders, among other things, informed Frederick Mogerin, the Italian Foreign Minister. Right before she did, they also informed the Italian ambassador about their problem. Before that, they met Stefan Phil, as well as Michael Davenport. After all, only fair and just compensation is the only solution in the case of the shareholder “Agrobanka”. It's been more than two years just since she collapsed. Is what has been done for all this time, and what has the Government of the Republic of Serbia done on this issue precisely for the stated time? It seems to me that this way, by absolute inaction, there is neither effective nor just justice and, most importantly, in a harsh way, violates the respect of private property not only as a liquid in our country, but at all in the EU countries, because the declarative lie was never anything but a glimpse of what is really necessary in practice, and it is necessary that both Serbian citizens, but primarily all shareholders, both domestic and foreign, "Agrobanke" get an answer to the question when finally something will be done on this issue, when will finally be done to regain their property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10739	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10740	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to start with this most intense topic. After the football match, Serbia – Albania, as well as in 2008, there were very difficult attacks on Albanians and their property in significant centres of Serbia. My question to the government of the Republic of Serbia is this - what has been done so far to urgently prevent further damage to property and endangering the lives of members of the Albanian national minority in Serbia and what has been done by the competent authorities in the processing of these crimes that are causing national intolerance? At the same time, I ask the Government to provide a report on measures taken for similar events in 2008, both in the direction of the punishment of the defendant, the perpetrator of the crimes, and in the direction of the compensation of the damage suffered by the owners of the pastry shops, bakers and other business premises. It is known that these serious incidents began to take place during Milosevic's regime, when Albanian rights in Serbia were drastically downgraded, which has not been significantly improved even after 13 years since the adoption of a special programme of the Republic of Serbia's government for the area. In fact, the situation of Albanians in Serbia has been getting worse lately. The primary court was suspended in Presevo, and Presevo and Bujanovac were both left without basic public prosecutors. In the last two years, only the Albanian National Council has reduced funding by 30%, and the number of members of the Albanian National Council Assembly has also been halved. All this is happening because authorities in Serbia have significantly reduced the level of rights of the Albanian national minority, as they have started treating Albanians in 11 times their real number since early 2013. In response to the question raised, the Ministry of Local Self-Government says that ignoring census data according to a national minority, here in this case Albanian, would lead to discrimination and a reduction of the rights of members of national minorities who did not boycott the census. I believe this is a radical way of justifying the drastic reduction of the rights of Albanians in Serbia, which is totally contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the absolute opposite of the recommendations of the advisory committee of the Council of Europe's Framework Convention, which requires that the issue with the boycott of the census be not maintained to reduce the rights of the Albanian national minority. The same recommendation requires that a real number of Albanians be determined through alternative methods, and on the other hand, the Republic Statistics Institute claims in the Report of 16 September that it has an estimate of the population of all municipalities, including Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. So I ask the government an additional question – why, instead of incorrect data, do I not think counterfeited people use data on the number of Albanians in this assessment that the Republic Statistics Institute does every year, and what was done in a similar situation for the period 2001 to 2002? Why are Albanians being punished right now when we expected to finally be more serious about resolving minority policy in the spirit of European values?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10741	Time. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10742	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to point out this issue to a highly damaged ecosystem in the region of Novi Pazar and the environment, which primarily refers to a total loss of forest surfaces. Fires took their toll, burning the central pine forest in the town of Novi Pazar in 2011. In 2007, about 60 hectares of forest, also pine trees, also burned in a fire around the city. Forest fires have been repeated several times in this area in the vicinity of Prepolje, Nova Varoshi and Priboj, as well as near Djurdje's pillars. A far worse thing than these natural verses was the theft and illegal cutting that devastated the forests in these parts of our country. Recently, there were many stories about the forest mafia that devastated southern Serbia. A number of newspapers have written about abuses and thefts, involving employees in forest land, who destroyed forests, as well as various ways of looting forest land, and one of the most common ones is the reclassification of troops. It's an unpunished robbery of the Serbian state. There are indications and constant complaints from citizens that similar things are done in the new market forests, with numerous abuses of those who should guard these forests. There are numerous accusations of labour, but there are also claims of alleged abuse involving the managers of the new market forest administration. Unresponsibly available, including trading parcels owned by the "Serbishum", the loss of a huge number of forest surfaces, measured in hectares of recent years, as well as a sincere desire to get new foresting as soon as possible, requires me to ask the Minister of Agriculture – is he familiar with the catastrophic state of the forest around Novi Pazar? Is there anything done in revoking the burnt and ruined forests in this part of the country, and inviting him to direct a Republic forest inspector to exercise extraordinary control in the forest administration of New Pazar and all the forest administrations in this part of our country? The city government in Novi Pazar, as well as the SDP, which makes the backbone of power in the two largest cities in Sandzak, is doing everything for this long time to enrich, enrich and change the environment in which citizens live in the cities of Sandzak, primarily in Novi Pazar and Prepolje. I can say that we have planted several hundred different trees, only 400 from the donation we received from the Republic of Turkey, but also a huge number of trees in the very center of the city, along with two of our largest rivers and thus gave a message that we really want to enrich our city's diverse flora. Of course, to plant flowers and to get a new market, like Prepolje, a new form. In the end, I want to point out that we will continue to do so. I would like to call, above all, on the "Serbishum" to go more seriously into the process of revoking forest systems in all endangered regions and to have more secure possession of these immense treasures of all citizens of our Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10743	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10744	Thank you, Chairman. I believe that when a colleague talked about the rampage of nationalists and the breaking of window windows owned by Albanians, you should at least listen to the Assembly's question, if the state can't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10745	I'm sorry, buddy, I don't know where you get the information that the state is doing nothing about it. Please refrain from that comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10746	I'm asking the question today.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10747	No, you've come to this first sentence. It wasn't a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10748	My question today, for a change, is how much did it cost to hold a military parade, since I didn't get an answer from the Secretary of Defense how much it would cost to hold a military parade? To this day, Mr President, I have not received that answer. First, I would like to congratulate the team on yesterday's occasion on all of Belgrade's Day of Liberation, and to thank again all the liberators, who were all over the former Yugoslavia in liberating Belgrade, on the sacrifices given, but also to thank for the professional attitude of soldiers who participated in the Parade four days before Belgrade's actual release. I've got one question here for the Ministry of Defence and for the government of Serbia. Since Serbia's Army spokesman said that the daily payments would be paid to participants in the parade, and Mr. Lazanski, who was that evening, seemed to me to be in the role of Serbian government spokeswoman, otherwise known as a participant in the Miss Elections, said there would be no compensation or an army daily fee, so that the defence minister would tell us whether the military would pay for the day of participation in the Parade? The second issue concerns you, as president of the Assembly and prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. To you, did you get a solution from the Anti-Corruption Agency recommending the resolution of Minister Selakovic, as the solution says that it was delivered to the Assembly and did you reserve an appointment at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to discuss the resolution of Minister Selakovic, when that solution, of course, becomes legal? On the other hand, the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, why does it allow the reckless collapse of the reputation of independent regulatory bodies, or independent bodies that this Assembly has appointed, referring to this particular case of recommendations for the resolution of Mr Selakovic, who in one inappropriate way communicated with the Anti-Corruption Agency, declaring that he would not be lectured by those whose hands are deep in honey? Mr. Selakovic could have talked about it earlier, and before this recommendation was made to him. In this case, he was in conflict of interest, as he was in conflict of interest, in all likelihood, and when he placed certain persons on very responsible functions. I am asking the Prime Minister to discredit regulatory bodies, and it is not just about the Anti-Corruption Agency, which now has been an orchestrated attack, apparently conducted by close government circles, the issue of lawsuits, and what has been the case, the "Transparency of Serbia", which it has filed against the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and because of the lack of information, very important information concerning the appointment of the directors of public enterprises, the resolution of some directors of public enterprises, the payment of stimulation to public enterprises directors and other very important issues...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10749	Here, you have five minutes and you're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10750	... Yes, yes, but you interrupted me, so allow me...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10751	No, you've been wasting your time finding out about the previous speaker. I can't give you any more time. Thank you. I'll answer you right now, I didn't get a solution, and I didn't book a session date. I hope you're satisfied. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10752	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office of the Assembly, is the reason for our re-unification is the desire to establish facts and truth about the business of the Serbian Railways at a time when Milanko Sarancic was headed. Neither I as an MP nor a member of the NS Group intend to protect the abuses, of course, where they are. The judicial verdicts in this case, which need to prove it, are still missing. A second year of waiting began as Sarancic referred the appeal to the Court of Appeal through the Special Court, which reached the first-degree verdict, but the appeal has not yet reached the Court of Appeal. A few months ago, we asked why the appeal travels for nine months. The President of the Council said in writing that it was necessary to send a verdict and a request to the London Business Society, which was one of the train providers, which was tried through the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration in September of last year, but was returned after a month, because it was not translated into English. This is obviously a failure behind which intricacies or whatever, we don't want to be skeptical, bad intentions. The English judiciary is returning the verdict to translation and only after months of waiting for translation, the verdict and the plea were sent to London on May 26th of this year. So, for more than four months, the Special Court has not received evidence from England that the verdict is delivered, because the appeal is not sent to the appeal. I ask the question of the Minister of Justice – can our judiciary invariably wait for a ruling to be handed down to the Economic Society in London and thus an unlimited decision-making, or are there legal deadlines? Why is the verdict delivered to the London Business Society who did not participate in the court proceedings either as damaged or as accused or as a witness? Why has the ruling not been delivered to the Trieste Business Society, which has been proven to be involved in these procurements and whose owner took part in the judicial proceedings as a witness? Why did the court-law of the Special Court commit first-degree companies from Trieste and London to pay the property benefit in full into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, although the court procedure proved that the Republic of Serbia's budget was not damaged or paid out of it, but by its own work and profit, these vehicles paid for themselves? Also, Željnica informed the court ahead of the final words that she had not calculated any damage to these purchases, and Milank Sarancic's verdict says he was convicted because the railway was damaged. Since the Ministry of Infrastructure only partially answered the questions that we asked on 19 June this year about the revenues and expenditures that were made in Milank Sarančić's term, and we asked for parallel results to be given in the period before, during and after his term of office, starting from 2001 to the last final account, so this time we will be more concrete. Please present the data for each year, in the period since 2001. – 2013, the following: how much was the foreign exchange income from transit, how much was the total of dinar revenue, what was the number of net tonne-kilometres, the number of remounted wagons by own means without assistance from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the number of freight wagons obtained for traffic purposes, the number of correct locomotives in traffic, the number of fixed kilometers of railways including the start of the Batajnica - Golubinci railways, the number of arranged and secured railway crossings with their own resources, the number of customized cell buildings, the hospital medical service, the number of workers in the railway company, the number of financial pens in millions of euros for the delay and the realization of credit info, the amount of interest paid on the exchange savings. How is it possible that the loss of the railroad, in the period of January, September 2008, was about six billion dinars, and in three months after Sarancic's shift, over 16 billion dinars increased? Also, I ask the police minister – is the collection of operational data by police found abuse in millions of euros in the purchase of magnetic resonance in 2004 for the needs of the Railway and Medical Institute and, if so, who has and why has been knowingly covering this robbery so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10753	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10754	Thank you, Madam President. Dear fellow MPs, my question was addressed to Minister of Education Srdjan Verbic. I ask you to forward it and, if at all possible, make sure it is answered within a short period of time, given that it is a very urgent, current and important matter. I don't know if the minister is aware that four trade unions employed in education, four representative trade unions representing more than 75,000 educators, visited the National Assembly last week. They were at the meeting of the Education and Science Committee, and there they introduced us to their demands that months were unsuccessfully trying to get to know the minister and to reach any agreement with him on this, which, as it were, will tomorrow lead to a complete suspension of work in more than 70% of primary and secondary schools in Serbia. In fact, the educators told us on that occasion that they had two requirements. The first requirement is for educators to be excluded from the announced decrease in public sector earnings, and the second requirement is for payment classes institutions that would allow for one degree of professional preparation, to receive at least the same salary for the same degree of expertise in Serbia. Of course, like lawyers, of course as students, of course as workers, as well as all others who try to express their dissatisfaction with the disastrous economic measures carried out by the Serbian government, educational workers are first accused of not understanding the situation in which the state is located. ` The accused of pushing to raise wages at a time when Serbia is in such a difficult situation, and yesterday we had the opportunity to hear the minister who says that these trade unions do not really represent some of the interests and attitudes of educational workers and it is obvious that they will happen, as well as with the representatives of the Bar Association, that very soon the minister will start accusing them of not being representative at all. Madam President, if you can, I can't yell, so if you can just silence your colleagues. Thank you. What is true, however, is that these people do not advocate any salary increase, they are merely trying to point out one fact that is known to citizens, which is that not all salaries in the public sector are the same and that this wage reduction, if necessary, as the Democratic Party is well aware, is not necessary, can not be made so linearly, because the average salary in public enterprises is 65,000 dinars, the average salary in public services of 56,000 dinars, and the average salary employed by 43,000 dinars. This means that a maid or driver, has a higher salary than a high school teacher, and that's the only requirement of those people. The minister announced a meeting with workers for today, so if the meeting looks like all previous meetings of Minister Verbic with educational workers, everything seems to be so, i.e. the meeting will consist of him constantly saying he is not in charge. My question for Minister Verbic is – what will he do to stop the strike of educators, and does he intend to contact his government colleagues, those he thinks are in charge of solving their problem and to set up a joint meeting with these people? The other problem they face is the so-called existence of the norm, as is known to be an educational worker who does not have a full norm has a salary of 4,000 dinars, or 15,000 dinars, while employees in public enterprises, is enough only to have a chair for them to sit on and they get full salary. This is a very serious problem, please forward the question to the Minister and urinate if you can respond within the time limit he is obliged to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10755	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10756	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question is addressed to the Prime Minister, Mr. Bojan Pajtic. I hope Mr Pajtic will be able to answer these questions in the breaks between the count of the province's MPs. I hope that in the time-outs of security and preservation in power and if there is 6% support for Serbian citizens living in the AP Vojvodina, they will be able to answer these questions concerning all citizens and Serbia, but also that part of Serbia called the AP Vojvodina. My question is - what number of employees works in the bodies of the AP Vojvodina? What number of employees is now in 2014, if it is known that 408 employees were employed in the District Government on 5 October 2000? What is the number now, if in 2009, 1,208 employees of the AP Vojvodina bodies, by which criteria, are these birth criteria, are they godfather criteria, are they perhaps party criteria, which is why in 2009 out of 1,208 employees who are not listed correctly, because they are not listed in data on those who work in numerous provinceal institutions, funds and other institutions, who make receipts from the Vojvodina budget? As an example of mishandling and manipulation of numbers by Bojan Pajtic and the Region government, I also quote the Regional Capital Investment Fund. According to official data in the fund, a total of 40 people were employed along with the director and his three assistants. My question for Mr. Bojan Pajtic is why it is not consciously stated that another 66 are engaged in the authorities of the fund management, although these people are making receipts directly on the coat of arms and on the burden of the people of Vojvodina? What number of people are working on the burden of the AP Vojvodina and the companies founded by the AP Vojvodina, such as "Vode Vojvodina", "Vojvodina Forests" and the Institute of Urbanism? The second question was addressed to Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, calling on the investigation to end with the same efficiency as the investigations in many other cases that caused the same period last year, crimes against life and bodies were reduced by 23%, against property by 21.6%, against full freedom by 38.2%. That's why my question is how does the investigation of those responsible for the destruction of Vojvodina Development Bank go? What about investigations related to the Capital Investment Fund, the Technology Advancement Fund and these famous siphons that Vojvodina pensioners received without question whether or not they needed or how much these syphons were paid, as well as an investigation into the Development Fund? Today is October 21st, a day that is intertwined with events significant in our near and distant history. I would take this opportunity and this time that I have left to ask questions, to remind myself that six years ago today, the Founding Congress of the SNS was held. Therefore, I would like to thank all the members and supporters of the SNS for the energy they have invested to reform the state, to change our society. I would also like to thank all citizens of the Republic of Serbia for the energy they recognized in the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10757	Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Dr Miljana Nikolic, Momo Colakovic, Olena Pauga and Konstantin Arsenovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. You were presented with the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 and the second session of the regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office for the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Delegated Immunity Issues has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written form of objection to those minutes. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 held 4, 5, 8, 9 and 10 September 2014. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, no one, with abstentions, voted 36 MPs out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014 held on 8 and 10 October 2014. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 32 MPs out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly require the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of the emergency proceedings, a proposal to supplement the proposed agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2014, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 32 MPs out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Action and the money compensation that citizens are making in the privatisation process, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 32 MPs out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National Assembly Secretary General Jana Ljubic suggested that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda for the appointment of Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147, no one, with abstentions, voted 34 MPs out of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality has proposed to put the draft conclusion on the agenda of the 2013 report on the work of the National Tortore Prevention Mechanism, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 24 MPs out of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft conclusion on the examination of the 2013 report on the work of the National Tortore Prevention Mechanism, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, no one, with abstentions, voted 33 MPs, out of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. The Committee on the Rights of the Child has proposed to put the draft conclusions on the 2013 report on the work of the National Tortrum Prevention Mechanism, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 October 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted 30 MPs, out of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. Do MPs Zoran Zivkovic or Vladimir Pavicevic want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10758	Thank you very much. As fellow MPs know, on September 26th, as promised to the minister, we have submitted the draft law supplementing the law on higher education. There have been changes to that law. We have proposed an amendment that should introduce academic honesty as a formal legal obstacle to plagiarization of plagiarism as a diploma of doctoral and master's titles. The minister refused because he said that it was not at that time on the agenda for technical reasons, but that absolutely as soon as I realized the need to do so would offer one solution. We promised to help him because we know he has a lot of work to do with these student protests or else we're going to propose a bill supplementing the law. That's what we did on September 26th, and you got this bill. What's the paper in that law? It is to introduce what should be understood, but when it is not understood it has to be put in a formal way – the Institute of Academic Honesty which represents a way to, repeat, prevent this flood of plagiarities, primarily in the state administration of officials and officials of the state administration, from at least one president of the municipality in Serbia, and there are probably a dozen, at least one mayor in Serbia, and there are probably several, and at least one minister in the government of Alexander Vukic, and there are probably more. These plagiarists, of course, are not only in these institutions, but they are the most dangerous ones for a normal life in this country because we practically have people in the highest positions of the authorities who do this work by being falsely represented and violating positive regulations. Change is very simple. In Article 4, point 1a is added, which says – academic congratulation, and then is added to Article 5a, which says – academic integrity is based on independent writing, as is the strict respect for other people's copyrights. I can't imagine that there is an MP or MP in the Serbian Parliament who is against such a solution and against the introduction of law and order in this area, and I will be very surprised if someone votes against the proposal to put this law on the agenda, because by doing so anyone who votes against would stand by the violation of the law, ethics and academic norms, and I hope that the MPs are not of such material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10759	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – two abstentions – there is no vote of 157 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Privatisation Agency; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Right of Free Action and the Monetary Compensation of Citizens in the Privatisation Procedure; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Funds, and Proposal for a Law on the Determination of Public Interest and Specific Procedures of Expropriation and Obtainment of Documentation in order to Realise the Construction of a System for Electricity Transfer of 400 sq of the Voluntary Level “Transbalkan Corridor – the First Phase”. National MP Vladimir Marinkovic is justifiably absent. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, no one, with abstentions, voted 33 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, the proposal to supplement the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 32 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, established the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, in general. I ask the service of the National Assembly to make up a consolidated text of the agenda of the session and deliver it to the MPs. Dn e v n i r e d : 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act, 4. Proposal for a law on the determination of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and procurement of documentation in order to realize the construction of a 400 kV power transmission system for the “Transbalkan Corridor – First Phase”, 5. Proposal for appointment of Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a conclusion on the 2013 report on the work of the National Tortore Prevention Mechanism. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Proposer Željko Sertic, Minister of Industry, Dr Dusan Vujović, Minister of Finance and Aleksandr Antic, Minister of Mining and Energy, I have called for today's session to be attended by Mirjan Filipović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mining and Energy, Milun Trivunac, Assistant Minister of Industry, Zlatno Milikić, Assistant Minister of Finance, Dusan Sutanovac, Director of the Capital Market at the Privatisation Agency, Branka Radović, Legal Advisor of the Agency for Privatisation, Jadranka Špehar, Senior Project Manager at the Agency for Privatisation, Djelena Arsić, Project Manager for Operational Legal Affairs at the Centre for Privatisation at the Privatisation Agency of the Privatisation Agency, Jadranka Špeljović Delić, Independent of Finance and Finance, Tištić, Tištivničkikić. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 1, 2, 3 and 4, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for MPs, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Laws on Privatization Agency; Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Laws on the Law on Free Action and on the Complementary of the Law on Investment Fundes, and the Proposal for Laws on the Establishment of Public Interests and Special Procedures of Exchanges and Completion of the Laws on Investment Funds, and the Proposal for Laws on the Construction of Public Interests and Special Procedures of Expropriation of Expropriation and Purchase of Documents, are to be implemented by the Realization of the System for Transmission of Electronic Interests, the Ministers of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Yeah. ) The word has Minister Zeljko Sertic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10760	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Working Presidency and the Honorable MPs, I will give you an explanation for the first three laws that are on the agenda today, and this – the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privatisation Agency; the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Right to Free Action and Money Compensation, which citizens make in the privatisation process; the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Funds. The first law you have before you is the law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency, and the basic reason is the need to comply with the Law on the Privatisation Agency with the provisions of the new Privatisation Act. The changes include replacing old institutes with new institutes, as well as supplementing existing ones, to make them more suitable, clearer and efficient. In addition to this above, the responsibility of the Privatisation Agency is extended, in the following segments: The Agency is given the possibility that, in the name and for the account of a third party, the sale of assets, which is broader than immovableity, as provided for by the previous legislative solution which did not cover the sale of movable items, rights, etc., then, the new Privatisation Act is no longer in the jurisdiction of the Privatisation Agency, so Article 8 which regulates privatisation operations by the Agency, then extends the competence of the Agency in the exercise of voting rights on the basis of actions the legal holder of the Action Fund, in order to enable the use of the rights of incompatible shareholders and enables the Agency to appoint a representative of the Fund in the bodies of the management of companies in which the Share Fund has more than 25% of participation in capital and the method of sales to be harmonised with the provisions of the Priva. In addition, these amendments and additions provide that the Agency may submit a proposal to initiate the bankruptcy procedure of the privatisation entity in the event of the existence of one of the bankruptcy reasons set out in the law governing the privatisation process and the law governing bankruptcy. Furthermore, it is prescribed that the Agency initiates the liquidation procedure of the privatisation entity in accordance with the law governing privatisation and the law governing companies, and that the Agency appoints, control the work and resolves the liquidator in accordance with the law governing privatisation. It is also agreed that the work of the Management Board of the Privatisation Agency shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Statutes and, in that respect, complement a new point of 8a, in accordance with which the Management Board shall, on a proposal from the Director of the Agency, decide on the requirements to be made in accordance with the rules of the Agency to give its consent. Furthermore, the law is complemented by provisions that regulate the education of one or more commissions by the Director of the Agency to carry out consent tasks, then the composition of the commission is prescribed and the conditions to be met by a member of the Commission, as well as other issues relevant to the work of this commission, are foreseen. Finally, it is prescribed that the Commission for the Control of Obligations of the Buyer, i.e. a strategic investor from concluded contracts in the privatisation process is educated by the Minister responsible for business affairs. To conclude, the main objective of the proposed amendments is to align it with the provisions of the new Privatisation Act, which extend the Agency's work and regulate individual institutes in a new way, and to make the Agency's work as effective as possible in order to privatise overall social capital and one part of public capital can be implemented within the short term, as regulated by the Privatisation Act. The purpose of the law is to continue and improve the privatisation process by introducing new legislative solutions in a way that enables greater economic impact, increase transparency, protect the value of capital and promote the development of the securities market. In addition, the role of a bankruptcy and liquidation manager and the unification of these tasks in one institution enables more efficient handling in these significant processes. Therefore, this is an explanation for the amendments to the law, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privatisation Agency. The next explanation is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. The main backbone is that the current law provides for the fund to be established as a closed stock company, while the provisions of the law result in a later change of legal form to an open stock company, i.e. that the actions of the Stock Fund will be traded on the securities market. In order to simplify the procedure, but also to simplify the economics of the process, it is proposed to give up the first model of stock trading and to continue the operations of the fund in the form of a non-public shareholder society. The proposed changes do not give up on the basic objective of the law, which is that citizens who have acquired the status of the right holder are paid cash compensation from the sale of assets of the Stock Fund, but now in a simplified procedure that is more suitable for the citizens themselves. In this respect, the proposed amendment or erasure of all provisions of the law relating to the inclusion of shares in the securities market, and in transitional provisions, it has been defined that the fund continues to operate as a stock company whose shares are not traded on an organised securities market. Meanwhile, a new company law has also been introduced, establishing new forms of organisation of companies, as well as deadlines for companies to comply with the provisions of the new law. The action fund is still not in line with the Business Society Act, as an amendment to the law as a founding act is pending, and amending the law as a founding act of the Action Fund will obtain the conditions for the Fund to bring its form of organisation in line with the provisions of the Company Act. Also, these amendments also bring about the harmonisation of this law with the provisions of the new Privatisation Act, in the sense that sales methods defined by the previous Privatisation Act - public tender and public auctions are abolished, and introduces a new method of collecting offers with public competition. In addition, it intervenes in the part of the extension of deadlines that have expired. The deadline until which applicants will be able to sell free shares without paying the costs of brokerage services, the costs of the Belgrade Stock Exchange and the costs of the balance will be extended until 31 December 2016, so that citizens can sell under the same conditions and actions for which the trading conditions have not yet been met. This provides the principle of equality for all citizens, both those who have already traded acquired free shares and those who have not yet used this right, and it is possible that under the same conditions they can also trade free shares that have not yet been shared or whose trading conditions have not yet been obtained. Also, this law extends the deadline within which the public company "Electroprived by Serbia" will implement a corporation, which will be decided by the founder. In conclusion, once again, I would like to reiterate the basic objective of the proposed amendments and the addition of this law and the alignment of the business of the Action Fund with the provisions of the new Company Act and the new Privatisation Act. The amendments to the law should allow for more opportunities to cash in the assets of the Action Fund, which is necessary under the conditions of the economic crisis, the withdrawal of investors and insufficiently the rapid recovery of the capital market, with a view to making the assets of the Fund more effective, in order to pay cash from the sale of that property to citizens who have acquired right-holder status. Finally, the amendments to the law should contribute to a simpler and more economic way of paying compensation to citizens compared to the originally envisaged concept, thus saving costs to both citizens and to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds Act. The establishment and functioning of investment funds as a new form of institutional investors in the capital market in the Republic of Serbia was made possible by the initial Law on Investment Funds of June 2006. The amendments and additions to the 2009 and 2011 laws were implemented in order to ensure a more stable and secure business of investment funds under the conditions of the global financial crisis and to comply with the relevant Directive 2009/65 of the European Parliament and of the Council, since 13 July 2009, to the extent that it allowed the development of the domestic financial market, as well as compliance with the new Capital Market Act as a roof law in this area, which entered into force on 17 May 2011. By law and investment funds, participants in the financial market, legal and natural persons are provided with the conditions to participate in the capital market as members of investment funds in a simple and efficient manner and to make certain contributions. This type of investment is essential for the collection of free funds from fund members, in accordance with the prescribed investment conditions and business policy of the investment fund, to invest in different forms of assets and thus contribute not only to the increase of the assets of the fund and its members, but also to the development of the capital market, as well as to creating conditions for more favourable and efficient financing of the real sector. The second wave of the financial crisis has conditioned an additional deterioration in the financial position and operating conditions of the investment fund management companies and led to a significant reduction in the assets of the funds themselves. In the previous period, as some of the main trends in the domestic financial market, there appeared: First of all, a significant decline in traffic achieved on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, which runs from 2008, meaning that traffic has been reduced about three times in absolute terms from 2008 to 2013. Also, the reduction in the number of market participants, particularly brokerage and drug dealers, fell from 88 to 41 companies and investment fund management companies from 15 to four; the modest supply of quality financial instruments, primarily bearing in mind the insufficient supply of municipal and corporate bonds, as well as government debt charters from the value and bonds of international financial organisations; the expressed desire of economic operators who are financial market participants to make the domestic capital market more attractive, both domestic and foreign investors. In addition to all of this, it has been observed that there are certain discrepancies in the provisions of the laws governing this area, and primarily the Capital Market Act and the Company Act, in terms of the applicable provisions concerning the legal forms of the investment fund management company, as well as the company bodies. It was also necessary to align certain concepts of those laws, which relate to the capital market with the applicable Capital Market Act. In order to implement the above-mentioned alignment with the Finance and Business Ministry's resolution of 11 March 2013, a working group was educated to amend the rules on securities of value, with the task of creating a uniform legal framework in this area. 26 institutions and representatives of the private sector took part actively in the group's work. From the moment of establishment, the working group held four meetings from March to November 2013, all of which discussed the objections and suggestions of the relevant institutions and, inter alia, representatives of the fund industry. Taking into account all of the above as well as the need for further harmonisation with the said directive in this area, and for reasons of implementation of the EU accession process, there was a need to make new amendments and amendments to the law. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws and in order to facilitate business conditions for financial crisis management companies and a systematic reduction in asset value under management, provides for a reduction in the amount of the share of the underlying capital in the establishment of a management company as well as the adequateness of capital from the existing 200,000 euros to 125,000 euros in dinar equivalent at the heart rate of the National Bank of Serbia. This stimulates the establishment of new management companies and thus significantly affects the potential increase in the number of participants in the capital market. The current reporting obligation of the Board of Papers by management companies has been relaxed, in the sense that, in addition to the annual reporting obligation, a quarterly reporting obligation has been introduced instead of the current reporting obligation. Thus, management companies will prepare less than two quarterly reports annually, which will significantly affect the reduction of management costs. In addition, and for the sake of greater security of the financial system, the Commission's obligation to draw up a list of auditors that can audit the management company and investment funds. That provision also constitutes a harmonisation with the Capital Market Act which has already applied that provision since its adoption, i.e. since 2011. In practice, all management companies are already hiring auditors from this list, so that that provision does not entail new coordination of social funds or additional costs. The proposed amendments and additions to the provisions of the existing law concerning the investment of assets and investment funds, as well as the limitation of investment of assets to an even greater extent, are in line with the solutions provided for in the directive, thus increasing the possibility of investment in assets enabling a better diversification of risk and thus greater protection of investors. In this respect, the management company's obligation to establish a risk management system that implies both an accurate and independent assessment of the value of derivatives traded on the OTC market has been introduced. The introduction of such a solution does not constitute an additional obligation for management companies, since they already have an obligation to define risk management policies under their management rules. The solution offered is to comply with the directive. Then, the line of total debt of the management company in order to maintain the required liquidity level has been reduced from 20% to 10% of the value of the fund's assets, in order to be able to realise the requirements of the fund for the purchase of investment units at all times. In addition, the provisions of the laws governing the operation of the management company and the activity of the management company are further specified when carrying out portfolio management activities, as well as the conditions for trusting administrative and marketing activities of other persons. The compensation system has not been changed, except in order to facilitate business, the tariff rule has been abolished and the obligation to provide compensation in the prospectus of the fund has been introduced. This solution is cheaper and simpler for investment funds, while at the same time more transparent for potential fund members. For reasons of facilitating business and reducing the costs of the management company and the distribution fund, advertising the net value of the fund’s assets and similar decisions, and notices shall only be published on the management company’s website, not as before and in at least one daily list. In particular, the cost of publishing those data in the daily paper is at least 450,000 dinars per year per management company, so that the proposed changes will definitely eliminate this unnecessary cost to management companies. Less changes and additions of existing provisions relating to the prospectus of the investment fund have also been made, and for reasons of transparent investment policy of the fund and additional protection of investors. More precisely, regulated services that can be performed by the bank's castodi, as well as measures in view of the company's business in the management of the investment fund and the castodi of the bank are carried out by the commission. In addition, the proposal for a law is intended to bring the termological alignment with the Business Society Act, in terms of legal form, the management body of the management company and the closed investment fund, the alignment with the Capital Market Act, mainly in the part of the referring norms for consistency and uniform application in practice, as well as the definition of certain concepts. The proposed solution will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the operations of investment fund management companies, investment funds themselves and bank cascades. The Commission which controls the implementation of this law, investors of the current and potential, or domestic financial market in general. I hope, that honourable MPs, you have received materials and that you have studied them in order to obtain good and quality objections if they exist on the proposal of these amendments and the addition of the law. So we'll probably have a discussion on the subject in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10761	Thank you. I'm asking if any of the other authorised representatives of the motionor want a word? The word has a minister in the government, Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10762	Thank you. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before you today is another legislative project, a bill on confirming public interest with special procedures of expropriation and obtaining documentation to realize the construction of a 400kv power transmission system for the Transbalkan Corridor voltage level – the first phase. In my further presentation, I will only speak of the law as the law of the Trans-Balkan Corridor. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that, as a legislator, we have tried, in addition to those administrative norms which are, of course, the necessary element of every legal project to put, in one quality way, fundamentally to the knowledge and the public, of course, to the MPs, which are all the reasons that led us to approach this way of resolving this issue and what is the importance of the project itself. I hope that such an explanation could create one picture among all the MPs about the importance of the project itself and the importance of having one full coordination in the whole system and one wind in the lens of the realization of this project which is fundamentally important for our country's energy and energy balance. First of all, I'm going to try in the shortest, past that and without wanting to convince you or to read what's in the very text of an explanation to give you some additional arguments and additional reasons that have led us, I repeat, to come out with this kind of legal project. I'll start from the fact that energy is primarily not a national matter and it's not a national issue. Energy is increasingly becoming one regional framework and one set of measures and a series of balances that must be harmonised at the level of the entire region, because energy as a balance point for all of us must be defined in all countries in the environment and simply not enough to have a stable energy situation only on the territory of one country if it is not in the whole region and if there is no possibility of helping each other and launching those missing quantities. This crisis that we had in the supply of electricity during the floods gave us one additional reason to think more about it, because in the situation where in Serbia, in those 12 days during the flood, when the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant and we did not work, when we needed additional amounts of electricity, we faced the capacity to get that electricity from the surrounding countries into our system is very limited and that there is a need for them to expand further. If we add to that the example we had in Kosovo and Metohija when the shooting of one block at the Obilic Termo power plant was the whole system there before the shooting. We had a situation where Serbia had to further release some capacities to add some of these, about 350 megawatts of electricity to Kosovo and Metohija to support the system. We realized that, in essence, this regional co-operation and the creation of interactions between all countries in the region are a priority and that we need to pay far more attention to these projects and that we need to recognise as a project of regional importance from the energy community as a project that is of greater interest, and should be put first and urgently put into its realisation. Some projections say that already in the post-2020 period, there will be a significant increase in electricity consumption, that this will cause the need for more power to move, because electricity consumption and production are not even in all countries and regions throughout the season, and that it is necessary for all countries in Europe, especially in this part of Europe where there are no installed and capacity, but also infrastructure at the highest level, to be further done in order to raise infrastructure and installed capacities to a far higher level. It was all these reasons that led us to come up with such a legal project that realized the trans-Balkan corridor as, I repeat, a project of European importance, of regional importance, that we put into priority the need for it to be quickly solved, effectively solved and that it eventually comes to its realization. When we were thinking about how to go into the realization of this project, aware of the fact that it is a project that is extremely large, in the first stage it has more direction and more interactions. So there is a new 400 kilowatt interconnection between Serbia and Montenegro, a new interaction between Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, a new 400 kilowatt power line from Kragujevac to Kralje, with the rise of the pressure level in Kralje to 400 kilowatts, then the rise of the voltage level of the transmission network from all of western Serbia to 400 kilowatts, by building a new power line between Obrenovac and Bajina Basta, then a whole other set of measures to a potential rise in the voltage level at the Valjevo trafo station at 400 kilowatts. When we looked at all of this, when we saw the size of the project, when we tried to translate it into the number of parcels and the number of objects that we would face in the realization of this project, we realized that using the existing law only took us for formal matters about 10 to 15 years to solve all these issues. Meanwhile, things and life cannot wait, in the meantime the need and the consumption of electricity is growing rapidly, in the meantime transit between Eastern Europe, primarily Moldova and Ukraine, where electricity is extremely cheap and which will have to go towards the west, first of all, towards Italy, on the one hand, and the transit of electricity from Germany to Turkey, these two transits will happen in this time, and Serbia could not allow and can not allow us all to get around. This is extremely important for our country not only because of the possibility of charging transits, fees that are certainly not small and will move in several million amounts on an annual basis, but rather because of the whole importance of our country as a regional player puts in the first place, our businesses are in a position to become global players, in any case, regional and finally, far away, this significantly raises the level of energy security in Serbia itself, because I repeat, it creates the possibility that a large amount of electricity is passing through Serbia, thus becoming available to our consumers, tomorrow for some new economic growth and some new economic facilities. For this reason, we tried to apply the same legal solutions that were applied to the implementation of the projects and the "South Stream". I particularly respect all the objections we have heard on the Committee that the deadlines of the law that predict some procedural matters are very short, I repeat, I do very much respect, because I know that they come from people who have a lot of experience in managing local self-government and solving such and similar cases. I heard that especially Mr Dragan Jovanovic had the suggestion that the deadlines were short and that I should consider eventually that they should extend, without now, one of my final statements and, of course, the government would make a final statement, I just want to mention and underline two things again – the first thing, the same deadlines, the same procedure, and everything is the same as in that legal solution that this same Assembly adopted regarding the implementation of the project "South Stream", that is, under one. Two, we can't afford to allow one light procedure and one full schedule, because I repeat for this number of parcels along with all our typical weaknesses would take us 10 to 15 years, and we plan to have this project realised in 2020, and in 2025, maybe some deadline. Two, we heard remarks from DS colleagues regarding the constitutionality of this legislative project and I would be very pleased to hear the explanation in which this legal solution is not constitutional. Again, it is about a solution that is identical to that legal solution that we have made for the "South Stream", and it seems to me then that we have voted together for these legal solutions, but the debate is ahead of us, the possibility of submitting amendments and the possibility of correcting the text itself are what is part of our parliamentary practice. We will hear with great care all your remarks and suggestions and, of course, without any vanity to accept any amendments that go towards the realization of this project in a better, better and faster way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10763	Do the committees in charge want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10764	Dear Mr. Chairman, the proposed amendments to the Privatisation Agency Act represent strengthening the Agency's competence in the process itself, as the minister said, of selling businesses that have not yet completed the privatisation process. It is also envisaged to strengthen the Agency's control role in order to meet the obligations assumed by the buyer in the sales process. A number of previous experiences have shown that buyers, very dishonest, were involved in the process of buying enterprises, at the very end of the doubtful intentions that failed to fulfil their obligations under the contract to buy these same companies. In my opinion, the Agency has had serious failures, as no one has adequately carried out the control of the obligations committed by the buyer. So, everyone knew during a long period of time that these customers didn't meet their obligations, they kept silent and allowed themselves to be systematically destroyed by enterprises that until then, some of them, very well and very well functioned and worked. In the territory of the city of Sombora, which I come from, many companies are enormously in charge of former owners, and investment obligations are not respected. This law is important because it gives the Agency broad authority to sell companies owned by republican funds, first of all, that's where I think of the PIO Fund. What I also think could have been arranged by this law further, is to involve more local self-governments in the process and sales, but also control the implementation of contracts for the sale of companies that have already been sold. I think the Ministry, or the Government, could have found a way to include representatives of our municipalities and cities through the Control Commission. It is not particularly important to explain how important every job is to every city, and unfortunately many have shut down because of the fact that the privatisation process in the past period has been more versed than controlled. I'd like to ask the chairman, if you can calm down a part of the people, who obviously care what happens in these companies and how many jobs are lost. I think it would be good if they could at least listen to the time when they were able to do something concrete, they didn't do it, so at least they could hear what the situation is like in these public enterprises. I would like to draw attention to the motionor this time that he should and had to deal with the personnel who manage privatisation entities, especially restructure companies, because some of them are controlled by people with very suspicious biographies, who have numerous criminal reports. I would like to give an example of the AD “Alexe Shantic” and I would like to ask you to check this out in particular, in which today a man named Aleksandar Marotic, a man who refused to bring into possession the board of directors appointed by the Agency, i.e. by the state. The same unconscious Marotic, who, by his own admission, has numerous criminal charges, and at the same time unfortunately, was a frequent guest at the Privatisation Agency, among individuals and very popular. I think an emergency state has to find a way to get these people out of businesses where they've shown their ingenuity, haughtiness and insolence, but what's more important is to permanently remove those who put up such people. As for the agenda, ministers said a lot, especially Mr Sertic and of course, there is one good intention to improve the work of the Privatisation Agency. I don't think we can just do what's written to improve the work, but this work will only improve good, quality personnel, people who do their job fairly, not those who are part of the combination that happens in the way the elections go through -- let's all go to the winners and keep doing what we did. It was a very common case, and unfortunately today and today, I would dare say at the Privatisation Agency, but not just there. In any case, these amendments to the law should also be supported and requested by the Ministry of Agriculture to increase the activity in order to complete the privatisation process, particularly in the firms in restructuring. Our parliamentary group will support this request in the voting day, as well as any good proposals coming from your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10765	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10766	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the NS MP group understands the need to amend and pass existing laws. We understand that the need to bring the Privatisation Agency Act into line with the new Privatisation Act. Just to remind, first of all, viewers that we simply now have more models of privatisation itself where it is necessary for the Agency to be the one to submit a proposal to the resolution ministry what kind of privatisation will be applied to one of these 502 companies that are still left to privatise and we understand that. What's important here and what needs to be pointed out is that the Agency is getting even more important to this than it's ever had before. A colleague who spoke before me said that the Agency has been privatizing over the past decade. The privatisation agency sold, controlled sales, introduced bankruptcy, but didn't show up in any bright light. Today, when we need to bring a lex specialis about something that Minister Antić said, which is a trans-Balkan corridor, the first stage, I guess we should have, Mr Sertic, respected ministers, shaken this Privatisation Agency a little bit more. What's interesting and what needs to be known, how they acted, how privatization was. We're all aware, we've got hundreds of thousands of people out of work. Unfortunately, we also have a large number of people who have executive court rulings for back-up fees, i.e. salaries, to privatisations that have not been paid. A large number of people can't retire now because they don't have a work experience connected. What's also an interesting thing, and that's according to the data we have, the Privatisation Agency has about 300 employees. Of those 300 employees, as far as we can tell, the average salary at the Agency is about 100,000 dinars. It's an interesting thing that sometimes we do, which we follow on the side, which is, as people's MPs, which as citizens of Serbia, is that they work there as some kind of supermen. I'd only give one little example. A gentleman named Dragan Ugričić, I don't know a man, but he's such a special, interesting example, he's a man, except, of course, he's employed by the Privatisation Agency, he's on the board of directors of the company "7. July’ from Sirig. Then he's a member of the FAP Supervisory Board from Pritchett. Then, in Bord, the director of "Seme Tamis" from Kruševec, etc. Until recently, these gentlemen have also received compensation for all these places in the supervisory, administrative and advisory posts of the board of directors, from recently, above all, by the influence of the Anti-Corruption Agency, at least as they have publicly declared, they no longer receive fees, but certain privileges have been maintained. What's also interesting, it's a way of managing, primarily firms in restructuring. I was speaking here, and I see today that my colleagues have particularly underlined it, I was the initiator of the Committee on Business to disclose the company's incomes in restructuring. What amazes me is that these salaries are enormously large. There are 350 to 400,000 dinars and you promised Mr. Sertić when you submitted to the exposés, when you were elected in this House to make a decision, a regulation or whatever, to pay you a limit. Please, here is now the opportunity and the budget rebalance that comes here by the end of this month, that you just do it and pay them a maximum limit of 150,000 dinars, and somewhere they don't have a salary, because as they run these companies, we all see it well. Today in Serbia, we hear different numbers every day, how many companies there are in restructuring. Today the number of 175 is mentioned. It used to be 157. What is also interesting is that the supervision of these directors, firms in restructuring, is being conducted by the privatisation agency, that their people are sitting on supervisory boards, and until recently they also received very high apparatus, which went on over 80,000 dinars. What's also important is that this is one amazing thing that you need to check out as a resolution minister, which is when the previous director of the Privatisation Agency, Mrs. Vida Zelek, introduced an electronic check-in to work, said that the Agency had been mastered by some strange virus and that the next day 70 employees went to sick leave. Among them, I have to say everything in particular, names stand here all because of citizens who need to know what kind of people are sitting in different agencies. Mrs. Sanja Karovic, that is interesting, she is the head of some legal service there, and otherwise she was on the control board of the Hidrotechnika company from Belgrade, whose directors were arrested in the affair when a city land director was arrested here in Belgrade for malfeasance with some sewers and collectors, and this firm whose directors were arrested for the construction of the tunnel, all of them were arrested, only representatives of the agencies sitting on the board, they were not responding to anyone. In 2009, my colleague from the parliamentary group, Mrs Dubravka Filipovski, submitted the initiative back then to form a survey committee, which would then further investigate all that the Privatisation Agency had done. What is also a big problem, and what citizens need to know, is that these almost 3,000 companies that have been privatised so far, and unfortunately almost half of them have been cancelled privatisation, the biggest problem was the monitoring of the implementation of investment programmes that the customers were supposed to do at the time. Who controlled that? This was controlled by the people of the Privatisation Agency. As they controlled it, all Serbian citizens know it well, and we have a situation like this today, a picture like this we have. We are changing the law today and giving greater authority to the Agency. We will vote for this proposal and we believe in you. Of course, we also believe in today's Agency Director, Ms. Marijana Radovanovic, but what I ask you, Mr. Minister, you must use your authority to make these things that I've been talking about, that they just don't repeat themselves anymore. What I have proposed to the amendment itself, and I am glad that you have supported it in principle, in the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Privatisation Agency in Article 15, and then we have a member of 15a, and because of the citizens who listen and watch this transmission, I will read it. It is a member who says how members of the commission are elected. It's a very important thing. The board members in front of the Privatisation Agency, who will control and sell companies later and how they will be sold, and it is very important in which way we get everyone more responsibility now, which is – if the strategic partnership model is applied, it will be one major test, both for the Resorving Ministry and for the Privatisation Agency, because there will be some machinations that will be able to be infinitely large if there is no control. Therefore, taught earlier experiences, on behalf of the parliamentary club, I have submitted an amendment that members of the board in front of the Privatisation Agency can only be constantly employed by the Agency. When the mollusks asked – why constantly employed, it is because we have so far had practice that someone who buys a company has a man in the Agency who came a month ago, has a job contract at the Agency and then puts the same man, the Privatisation Agency, in a commission that sells the company. These things were, unfortunately, happening and in order to at least somehow prevent this from happening, we suggested this measure. What is also important, and what we have covered by this amendment, Mr. Minister, is that there can be no people in these committees who are in any way connected, whether they were members of the boards of directors, whether they were in the advisory role, with companies that submitted binding bids to take over any of these 502 remaining companies. I'm glad you understood the importance of this subject. If we want this remaining part of the privatisation to go as clearly as possible, as transparently as possible, I don't think it's going to be questionable for these amendments to be accepted. What's important and what else I'd like to underline, regarding the Privatisation Agency, is that at least we're witnesses from what we're getting through the information funds, that from these 502 companies somewhere up to 60 of them will be sold and received in a certain way by new owners, and another 150. The state will find the mechanism, even if it pays, because of strategic interests, because it is located in certain regions of Serbia, and also because of the production they have, to find new owners. But what remains, and remains between 250 and some 280 firms, will obviously go bankrupt. It's up to you, and to us as Parliament, and of course to the Agency, above all, to find a mechanism to fight, and that's what we got from you, a public promise, that at least for every firm we try in a maximum way to contribute to finding a new owner. I wanted to ask you and your associates about this topic – after the 15 September deadline, the letters that came to take over some of these 502 companies, which came about early October, will it be valid or is that legal deadline expired and there is no more way? Or, if one company is to be taken over in a way that takes over capital and takes over an employee, will some public auction be able to participate in companies that have not sent letters to the Privatisation Agency? It is something that is a concern, at present, with a large number of businesses in Serbia itself who want to participate in the privatisation process and therefore it would be good to explain these things. What I would yet ask you, and what I did on the Committee, you mentioned here that the deadline for the EPS to move on to society as a corporation continues until the end of 2016. You yourself said that the deadline expired in 2010, that unfortunately no one had thought to start the issue before, so I would ask you, dear ministers, that more extension of those deadlines would simply not come to parliament. We have a bad experience. A few weeks ago, we talked here about an extension of the deadline for enrollment of the public property of local self-government, the province and public enterprises. I don't think there's any need for any longer deadlines at every session. As far as these remaining two laws are concerned, the draft law supplementing the law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process and the draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act is something, unfortunately, that we have as the legacy of that Dinkic policy that was in 2008. We all remember these famous presidential elections, 1,000 euros for free action. Of these 1,000 euros, Serbian citizens have barely seen around 1,700 dinars. Unfortunately, the coming economic crisis in 2008 left the Belgrade Stock Exchange behind. We have a real crisis in the financial sector. I think it's a good idea for the Agency to manage the Action Fund, manage on the basis of the adopted plans of the Action Fund itself. It will be a good incentive when the EPS becomes this stock company and when the EPS actions will be on the market. What citizens don't know may require a slightly better education of a wider population in which they can trade with their actions. That's something I think is necessary. What is also important, as regards these fourth points, as already respected Minister Antić mentioned, is the proposal for a law on the establishment of public interest in specific procedures of expropriation and obtaining documentation for the realisation and construction of the electricity transmission system "Transbalkan Corridor - the first phase". What I want to point out in particular is that such an investment should absolutely be supported. What's important is that the connection with the neighbouring countries proved to be a rescue in the year when we had such an elemental accident. Downloading electricity from neighbouring systems, whether it's Bosnia, whether it's another country, has also proved to be a rescue for the preservation of our electricity system. It's something to praise. It is also very commendable that we raise the system from 220 to 400 kilowatts, because this reduces the losses in the conservation of the environment and it is all commendable. Also, you yourself have stated that such an investment is a strategic investment for the state of Serbia, and we agree and therefore absolutely support the ministry's activities. Where we point out the need to consider and consider, Your Honor, Mr. Antic, it's just a period of expropriation. It's the time for expropriation. You've made a claim here that if it were done regularly, it would take 15 years. Probably would. What the MPs themselves should know is that the mechanism of expropriation at the South Stream is also going quite slowly, although the deadlines were also extremely short, as they are now in this bill. I think, and I think there are a lot of fellow MPs here who think it's impossible to set deadlines more realistic in a local self-government where you'll have, for example, a power line between Kragujevac and the Kings, where it'll be tens of thousands of parcels to end in five days. It's not realistic, and I think it's better to set a more realistic period of two to three weeks, when it could end. One more thing that interests me and I hope you will give me an answer, which is that, after the administrative dispute is over, the administrative procedure is conducted by local self-government, the administrative dispute is conducted by the court, and when the court comes to a verdict where the party is right, it is necessary to pay a greater fee for putting the bandit or the pillar on their salary, who pays the expropriation by the ruling of the administrative court, whether the local self-government, whether the resorient ministry? It's a little vagueness in the text itself, which would be good for her to explain herself in this debate right here on the tide. Dear Ministers, New Serbia will support these draft laws in the voting day. I would ask you to give specific answers to the specific questions I have asked. I hope you will respond positively to the amendments submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10767	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10768	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, honored guests, I am pleased to finally have the agenda of the Assembly on the subject of the capital markets. Of course, there are these other laws, but I wouldn't talk about it much, since the subject of privatisation is already known. We in LSV support the fact that it is going towards the end of privatisation, which has been going on for 20 years in Serbia and I hope that it will come to an end soon. As for amending the Investment Funds Act, I would, of course, commend the motive for finally reviving the capital market in Serbia. I think that this is a much more important topic than just bringing ourselves into line with the EU directive, especially in the sense that investment funds and the entire capital market ecosystem and in developed capitalist countries are created by evolution, and since 2000, we have a tendency to simply rewrite solutions that exist there, even though those solutions can never live here. Investment funds and the investment fund management company are just one of these things and your analysis here in the light of the law shows that in 2008, we had 15 fund management companies, and now we have four and those four barely work. We also see from that same analysis that the index of our stock market, which practically does not exist, fell by about 77% in that same period. I think we can agree that neither the stock market nor the capital market in Serbia exist, but for reasons that, in my view, the state has not approached the solution to this issue in a plan and system way, so today we have a banking financial system, where, on the one hand, you cannot be in charge of the company anywhere other than the Commercial Bank, which has its limits due to the National Bank and the possibility of borrowing. For this reason, the total capital of the entire economy is certainly negative for us today, because there is no way you can even get to capital, or broadcast any other charters, shares, bonds, which is not related to commercial banks at all. In my view, this is a key problem of the economy, because how can you finance an investment today that is not short-term or that lasts five or ten years without going to one of the commercial banks and you can't possibly be in charge if you've done it before? The main problem is the state, because today the state is in charge of rates at which private firms are not paid for borrowing and banks, practically, buy deposits from citizens and buy state charters and that's our entire financial system. In the context of the capital market reform, I think that, first of all, it may not be so much of a topic for you, it has to be more active in accessing this topic, given that there are solutions in some other countries in the region, where the capital market is far better functioning and where the entire state-owned activity is also counting on this part that has yet to be privatised, enterprises in restructuring, and those managed by the Privatisation Agency, are practically made of fund management companies and of them is a fund managed in an investment way. Later, with a group of silent companies, it comes out on the market, etc. Romania, for example, is an example. I've mentioned that before here in the National Assembly. They have given a good deal of state-owned activity to investors who, in a professional way, mainly refer to the achievement of the highest contribution to capital, operate further by selling or investing in that state-owned activity. I think that kind of model with us might be even more comprehensive than what we're doing right now, i.e. that we're trying to sell a lot of small businesses to concrete strategic investors, which is going to work to some extent, but I don't think they will. As for sharing free shares, I think the biggest loss of transition is an average Serbian citizen, precisely because of the sharing of free shares. Privatisation began in 1990 with Ante Markovic and the entire capital of social enterprises is practically distributed to employees. Later, when the state ran out of money to finance the wars that we didn't make, then the revaluations were done, so these privatisations were cancelled, so the state became a majority owner again, so after 2000, the social capital was sovereign, and then the state magically became the owner of social capital, which is very doubtful whether it could at all, and after that only a minority share of employees and now we had famous free shares, which turned out to be worthless. The main and basic problem is again, I'm coming back, why were all these actions of minority packages worth nothing? It is precisely because there are no capital markets liquid on which to trade and where the Securities Commission has a much stronger role than it has in us and where you are as a minority shareholder protected by law and where there is transparency and corporate governance and legal certainty and where bankruptcy ends within a reasonable period. In my view, these are all reasons why we do not have investment funds and a society to manage investment funds in Serbia. These are minor changes to the law and we support them. We'll vote for this proposal. The concrete solutions to reduce the censorship for the establishment from 200,000 euros to 125,000 euros are a good proposal and some other solutions concerning the release of the report and less bureaucracy. But we still find that a fundamental problem, and that's all I've just listed, is still something that we're not going to have any bigger foreign investment either by large private funds or investment funds, etc., and I think Serbia is now a good market for that kind of thing. Until the whole system is done, such investments will be left behind. As for the law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, we think that the re-moving of deadlines is not good, and we cannot support you there, because I think that citizens deserve at least a part of those famous promises to be fulfilled, so LSV will vote for these other two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10769	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10770	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice-President, Honorable Ministers Sertic and Minister Antić, over the past few years, Serbian legislation has been significantly reformed and adapted to the legality of the market economy, but unfortunately the quality of the laws passed has not been the same in all cases, but in some segments it has not been ideal. Rapid reforms in Serbia, whose witnesses we are all, require that unsatisfactory legal solutions are improved through amendments and additions to the law. The acceleration of our European path towards adopting EU best practices also requires better solutions. Finally, what they say is carefully listened to and the views of key participants on the financial market, i.e. institutions that best know the issue that is under discussion today. After this hearing, as well as the consultations of relevant institutions, it is logical to follow the events to adopt the views and solutions of those of the most competent persons from these institutions, the organisations Serbia has and which are involved in the changes ahead of us today. I sincerely hope they will be adopted, there is no dilemma, and as far as the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group is concerned, it is undeniable to vote for the proposed changes and additions. We had to, as far as we can see from the proposed amendments and additions of these laws, correct some stains that were probably the result of the speed of some previous majority in this Assembly, not the result of negligence. First of all, it is a great challenge to bring together a large number of laws that have been passed obviously too quickly or without a wide enough participatory process, which is the best defense not to adopt laws that face one another in the future, i.e. laws that have serious difficulties in implementing them. Anyway, we can say, with pride, that old Bismarck's proverb about the laws -- that the laws are like sausages, if you love them, you'd better not know how they're made, they're less and less valid in our country. In addition to the European path and the lack of harmonisation of laws, which create problems for both ordinary citizens and the business world, and very often lead to the resolution of the lack of law through unnecessary sublaws, amendments and additions to the Law on Investment Funds, the Law on the Right to Free Action, the Privatisation Agency, we create a part of the preconditions for removing the consequences of the crisis that came into Serbia in 2008 and which it left, at least when it comes to financial markets, devastating problems. It is true that this market has been knocked up and that both the decline would happen with both crisis and crisis, but in conditions where we have a market where daily traffic is measured in hundreds of thousands of euros, we need to think carefully about all the possibilities for this very important market to move from a dead spot. In addition to the stock market, in a state that looks like, and we can admit that, to a clinical death, we have a solar return to the work of brokerage and drug dealers, investment fund management companies, and pension fund management companies. Without these changes and additions to the laws that are before us today, we would never have added to the existing pension system, alternative to bank financing or alternative forms of low-risk investment, or we cannot use ways that are much faster and more efficient than sharing subsidies to foreign investors, which, as the experience shows, are very often misleading and cause us many problems and headaches. We can give examples from Pirot to Valev. We live in a time when a long friend is evil. Over our heads, as some people like to say, is bankruptcy. The reality is that he is not still at Serbia's door, but we must weigh in a way that is not good between higher and lower interest rates for payment, between higher and lower pensions and salaries. It's a bad choice, but the result is that it's been sticking its head in the sand for years. When we get where we are, then it's logical that we have as many sources as we can fund public debt, both republican and municipal. We need quality instruments for this, and we live in a country that has not created the best possible framework for the development of quality instruments. If we have as many different funding instruments as possible and if they are of quality, the less chance we are of being the victim of events that are not under our control. We have a chance to become and passively defend ourselves against bankruptcy and a cash register where there's always some income missing, but to open up new development horizons. I shall state as an example of the quality financial instruments of the ammunition bond. I will stand out as a good example of the town of Novi Sad, which is the first to introduce legal solutions to create formal and legal conditions for municipal bonds in the capital market. We can say for them that they allow cheaper borrowing and better handling. I'm saying this because many municipalities don't use this, which is the result of not informing, I'm not going to say ignorance, but I'm speaking this example of the New Sad. Later, there were other municipalities that used this example of funding, when it comes to infrastructure facilities. Novi Now announced a 35m-euro credit demand ad, then received an offer with an interest rate of 7.5% per 12 year-old, with a grace period of two years, and meanwhile an offer to issue bond emissions at a maximum effective rate of 6.25%. To make the citizens understand, there Novi Sad has saved 35m euros to threem euros. There were examples where the lowest possible loan was given in Serbia. I think it's Užice because the ammunition bonds came up, and then the bank gave a much lower loan than anyone in Serbia ever did. What our people would say is, there's a rabbit in that bush, so let's get him out and start sorting things out when it comes to our public finances. When it comes to investment funds, we have here a relaxation of the adequateness of the management company's capital. This is reasonable because the value of the assets managed by these companies has become significantly reduced. Less time is spent on reporting to the Securities Commission and the entire reporting and audit process of the management society has been made clearer, not to say more taxative, but in any case, appropriate EU legislation. The process for change does not introduce new costs to those who should be key stock holders on the financial market. The opportunities for new areas of investment funds investment have been opened, and therefore there is a better diversification. There is also an obligation to establish a risk management system, especially when it comes to OTC markets and in line with European experience. Changes in advertising obligations as well as regulations and tariff obligations are also introduced. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Privatisation Agency Act, we can say that here we are finishing a job that was started by adopting a new and probably the last Privatisation Act. The new law on the Privatisation Agency, in line with what the new privatisation law prescribes, gives the Agency greater powers and greater responsibility in the complex privatisation process of the remaining enterprises in the Agency's portfolio. The legislator's intention is that if we haven't already had quality privatisation, and we Socialists very often say that it was a robbery privatisation that left over 500,000 people out of work, in years when it wasn't done properly, I sincerely hope that at least part of the process that we are bringing to an end, we will be in a way that will be good for these companies that are privatised, and for the future of the private property institution in Serbia. We've got a lot of work to do looking for strategic partners. A lot of wisdom in solving the status and consequential problem with most of the companies that we have, which we've had for the past 10 years, have been taping in a place or a little bit I think they're coming back, going backwards. But smart redefining the Privatisation Agency is the key to this process. If you'll allow me to comment on a few concrete comments, as regards the amendment and addition of the Privatisation Agency Act, I would like to comment on some members and point out why the need for amendments and additions of the Privatisation Agency Act has generally been manifested. In my view, these are two reasons, which is the end of the privatisation, restructuring and adoption of a new law on privatisation. Therefore, there are no fundamental changes in the performance of the occasional tasks that the Agency has so far had and what we all point out and we all know what problems the Agency is in. I think all of this requires one knowledge and expertise and commitment to the Privatisation Agency, but clear guidelines without too much discretion to decide how it used to be and to interpret discretionary regulations that suit one and the individual's wishes, even if they were both tycoons and politicians. The Agency's current and future competence in the activities of promoting the process, with due respect for the Agency as a state institution, was very thin. We need to know that today there is an impression that neither workers nor unions nor even potential buyers are well aware of the new Privatisation Act, the procedures that follow in the process. Some in the public are led by delusions when a letter is sent about the intentions of an interested buyer and he is considered to be a qualified buyer. So, a lot of these misunderstandings, I think that in the next period there will be a lot of clarity, that the public will be informed, because again I have to point out that these amendments to the law, the business of controlling the privatisation of the contract remains in the jurisdiction of the Agency in the future, and this is good on the one hand to rationalise the costs. It is, again, a great challenge for the Agency to regulate its mode of operation which has been such so far, to form its own officers who have been doing control tasks, to draw a line and make a cut to what has been badly done in the past 13, 14 years. We need to think about ministers to strengthen the Agency's professional structures and capacities in terms of control and how to improve them and how to improve field control, to level this field control approach, because it has happened in the past to be privileged and to give someone a new chance 20 times, and to immediately break someone's contract at the beginning. That can't happen in the future. Please pay attention to that. Since the Agency lays down criteria for participation in public gathering of tenders with public competition of terms of sales as well as obligations of customers, investments, social programme, continuity of business, etc., all capacities are expected to slow down here again, in the coming period, and to carry out this job to a good degree with special attention. Doing these jobs has been the core issue of all privatisations since 2001. All the time, the consulting houses were those who took over the Agency’s work, and practically the Agency was a service to consulting houses, not a consulting agency service. I will only have to make one example that over all these years in Serbia 46 consulting houses have earned 4.27 billion dinars. The most picky year for consultants was in 2003. Very interesting information. The consultant experts then received 18.6m euros. It's the data that bothers us anyway. A fertile year, according to my colleague Misa Petronijevic, a fertile year, and street workers due to unsuccessful privatisations. The consultants are full of money, and the money's moving on, so we don't talk about how it's all going, it's on the organs, it's never getting old. What I'd like to mention, and not to mention some examples from the near future, as media speculates that they stand behind each other, I don't want to hurt anyone, I'm just going to name an example from a distant past. In the case of Article 5, it is particularly important for the Agency to take seriously the competence of the control of the programme for the sale of property with the privatisation regulations. It is extremely important that the privatisation programme in all parameters follows the regulations and that the Agency knows exactly what the subject is and the package is sold. Is the subject of the sale of goods in preparation and what is it worth and is the subject of the sale of goods on supplies and what is it worth? If we do not make sure that these parameters are not included in our privatisation programme, for every particular company where the items of privatisation are sold to the company's assets, this means that someone like in the case of Sartida and Smedereva will buy the company at a price of more than one stock. Sell supplies, pay the price and finally profit. I said I didn't want to point out a recent example, when there was a problem, I don't think it's clear today why and what happened to privatizing that firm that I think is in restructuring, correct me if I'm wrong. It is good that the Fund will delegate and propose people in managing bodies to a management company with at least 25%, on a proposal from the ministry. What I'm interested in, will it and how, since the practice has so far shown, to whom do they report after being delegated by the ministry? So far, we've been delegating someone in this society, he simply has no one to report to, and I think that should be regulated by some act of the minister or ministry with some additional explanation. I wouldn't bother you with these details anymore. I have to bring the end. What may also be important to point out when it comes to this, is that these commissions will be formed from both areas to control investments, the social programme and the continuity of business. I must point out at the very end, as I am running out of time, the Socialists see that Serbia's European path and adjustment on that road is something that is inevitable and something that is good for Serbia. We also have no delusions that in this process we must change fundamentally, and that it is desirable that change be the result of the consensus of society and its greatest work. In a year's time and the work ahead of us, some who haven't been able to finish for a decade, and I didn't say this to complain, may not be a few classes better, as they boasted, but we will make these processes more efficient, more transparent and in the interest of all Serbian citizens. We support these changes and additions as a parliamentary group, because our permanent definitions are that we want a system that works, a European path and a market that leads to efficiency and which is the basic resource for our social policy and the idea of social justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10771	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10772	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, we have here a proposal to amend several laws that essentially present a demonstration of the process and privatisation and of energy integration and of the paper markets of value and various other things which are only terms and expressions that are essentially meant to cover a bunch of errors, incompetence, incompetence, even the verminity of this government. I have to say that it's mostly compliance with the provisions of the Privatisation and Banks Act, but I would definitely criticise Article 1. The law on the Privatisation Agency in the sense that in the time of savings and situations where everyone should cut costs, when certain SNS officials give up double functions, some of them are changed, like Sasa Mirkovic, and some do not...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10773	Please, Mr. Stefanovic, return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10774	Thank you. It remains unclear why the Agency acts half as a beneficiary of the budget and as someone who uses a commission of the shares sold. I also have to say that the law on the right to free action, the Charter Committee of Values that has Mr. Cirovic at its head, and who we all want to replace from that place because he broke the law, for example, shows that this man with inadequate functioning and work led to the collapse of the securities market. To turn to what's the point. These laws should be in place to support the historic reform process in Serbia, which has been announced for a year and cannot begin, i.e. Only they haven't, I guess, since next Monday or Wednesday, and let's say they should help eradicate phenomena such as the situation that someone thinks there's no crisis at all when for all Serbian citizens there's a crisis. For example, State Administration Director Jelvos, which the minister is sure to know about, is going to a service car wedding from Smederev. The workers receive 22,000 dinars. The company owes the worker 300 to 600,000 dinars. Workers say they write and deliver evidence to the Privatisation Agency neatly, but that the director of Želvosa is calling for the party and Mayor Jasna Avramovic, etc., who protects him. The privatisation law and the bankruptcy law have come into force. We have a continuation of empty stories, boasting, marketing and a competitive spirit that will give better and more false optimism. For example, the finance minister said on September 18th, Mr Vujovic -- a large number of letters of interest have been sent to the privatisation agency, and even 60% of them are credible. Minister Sertic knows what I'm talking about. The appointed Minister Sertic said in Dnevnik 2 RTS on September 20th – 1,732 bids for 403 enterprises in restructuring have arrived and are now under review. It's okay. For at least two weeks, we read and listened to "free media" that Serbia is a magnet for investors, and then what happens? Only after two weeks of October 1st, Minister Sertic, whom I respect, says -- I'm afraid there are few serious offers to buy firms in restructuring despite a large number of letters of interest. We talked – don't trust every letter, every memorandum of understanding does not mean the obligation to enter the business. Minister Sertic is right. The second thing is that two weeks earlier he made a slightly different statement, but he said exactly – despite a large number of letters, we talked about 1,732 applications, many said it was phenomenal because we have 500 companies that sell, which means there will be fights, but not so, finished quote, Minister Sertic. That's what happened. Calls, announcements, announcements. Nothing's going on. That's the point of the problem. We're afraid that the reforms of the decade will not be fiasco for decades. We are afraid and the impression is that there are no serious investors so far, which is about the Privatisation Agency and is about the laws that are systemic. We're afraid they'll just tell us that there's something else we have to wait for to prepare voters for new severe cuts, as they're called. What's worth, we're afraid, will be donated to some of the United Arab Emirates for small funds. Attractive building land for failed firms will be taken by the ruling party's responsible finances and they already know that in all Serbia. Everyone knows that someone is going to buy "Politika", someone is going to buy "Studio B". You know who these people are. You know their last names and you know that these people control everything that's wrong...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10775	Mr. Stefanovic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10776	The workers will receive some sort of severance payment that will be paid from credit lines. Some will get certified medical records. I'm talking about a privatisation process that has failed, so now it needs to be corrected. Some will get a connected job internship. My party was in power when the G17 plus and the DSS conducted the privatisation, so I think it was bad how privatisation was conducted in this country and I'm not ashamed to say it. But the situation is now far, far from what you promised the citizens of Serbia. Nothing in particular changes in the work of the Privatisation Agency, we will get some more precise jurisdiction on this proposal. It's no different how it's worked so far, except for a little make-up. In Article 4, you are changing the current Article 9 of the Law and in point 5 you state that the Agency will set criteria for participation in public gathering of tenders with public competition, conditions of sale, as well as obligations of the customer with the consent of the Ministry of Business Affairs. This task will be a major challenge for the government and for the prime minister because we see that you will take care of the legality and at the same time package the interests of different investors who will in some way draw some of their interest in the company through various memos and pre-negotiations. It will be very difficult to implement and coordinate one's marking of territory in advance and what it says here in the law and in terms of criteria. I'm afraid that won't be possible. I think you now have a historic chance to correct everything that you have opposed to previous governments. You now have that chance among other things and through the application of these laws. Anyway, let's talk about the Privatisation Agency. The Privatisation Agency had, if I understand the colleagues of most, suspicious tenders, suspicious procedures and so on. criminal privatisations, but I don't dispute that. I think they should talk to the man who was the director of the Privatisation Agency, and that man's name is Sinisha Mali. He participated in the privatisation of Beopetrol. He was a company restructuring master. Also, Mr. Ivica Kojic, the closest associate of Mladjan Dinkic, and now head of the cabinet of Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10777	When we discuss the officials of the Privatisation Agency, we can... Please talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10778	Mr. Arsic, you didn't listen to the previous debate. Everyone talked about it, but it doesn't matter. It is important that I respond wisely to the majority leader in advance, since I know exactly that he will talk about the past, so I said we should immediately limit ourselves to Mr. Mali and Mr. Kotic. If he can answer that, about their participation, let's say Cynthia Malo in Beopetrol's privatisation. What is also problematic in Article 4 is said to be the job of the Privatisation Agency to propose to the ministry responsible for business of modeling and privatisation methods. That's what it says now. You'll agree, this provision is a little strange because this is well imagined, but it is generally known that all decisions on models and privatisation methods are made exclusively in the Prime Minister's office. I don't understand how you're going to do it in practice when we know it's going in a completely different direction. Take, for example. A Finnish company called Sisu, which is reportedly going to save the entire Pribo from 600 new jobs. The memorandum was signed at a ceremony ceremony in Priboj on 30 May, and the prime minister said in front of 20 TV cameras, quote – privatisation by the end of August, production of first trucks in early September, end of quote, Aleksandar Vukic. It's the end of October. Is there a truck? There isn't. I wish there were 600 jobs. It's a big deal. This is an example of how some memoranda that are solemnly signed for marketing purposes, unfortunately, still do not give concrete results, and the whole of the Priboj and the whole end would like to see it realized, unfortunately, there is nothing of it, as well as any of your other promises. That's also what the Marathons said, in January, you said, the money in April, since the promise came a year ago. That's what the late Zoran Radmilovic said. My question to you as a promoter - has the FAP method and the privatisation model been designated personally by the Prime Minister in May or has the Agency done so? Because this says he needs to do the Agency. So let's say about FAP. Now I ask you, in May, did the Agency or the Prime Minister or you, say, I don't know? Because it seems to me that the Prime Minister has approved the agreement, and the Agency now only needs pro-forming to apply it in practice, which seems to me to be the passing of this law that you have proposed to us to adopt at this point. That's my opinion. In Article 5. The Agency's law states that the Agency checks the performance of the strategic investor's obligations under the Strategic Partnership Treaty in carrying out privatisation control operations, excellent. My question to you ministers - how did the government imagine this without having a better example than the ErSerbija company, for example? So, you could now be the result of the Etyhad Strategic Partnership and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. The Republic of Serbia, first we fought a battle a year to see the contracts, so we saw three out of five, you know everything, not to repeat. I asked you here in the Assembly if you saw that contract, you didn't answer me. So how are we going to determine this strategic partnership now, how are we going to determine the fulfilment of the strategic partner's obligations when three out of five parts of the contract are out in public, when you as minister can now tell us whether it's all fulfilled or not, and how is the Agency going to retroactively check it now? Is it technically feasible at all? Article 13 of the existing law provides that the Management Board shall adopt a programme for the sale of assets where it has not been adopted by the competent authority of the privatisation entity in accordance with the law. Since it is not clear here what was the reason why the authority was bringing in, the companies did not bring in the programme, it will be interesting in practice to see how the Agency takes over other people's powers. If we have a situation that, for example, the managing authority will not bring in an asset sales programme as would suit the government or one man in the government, we will have a situation where that authority will take over the Agency's Management Board. It doesn't matter what's in the interest of businesses, workers or in the general interest. The board members of the Privatisation Agency will meet, and they will say, no matter what body of the company, we know best what to do here, and we know exactly how to sell the company and we know how we should do it, what they think in that company, it's irrelevant, it's completely irrelevant. You've absolutely centralized everything in this country. In Article 15a. and 15b. It envisions the formation of two commissions, one to give consent on business status issues, and the other to take measures on the controls carried out. One is formed by the Director of the Agency, the other is the Minister of Economy. It really raises the question of how rational and justifiable these two commissions are and how effective will this affect the work of the Privatisation Agency? I think these are just a bunch of procedures. I think we should apply existing laws. Imagine if there were two commissions in all state bodies for something? We'd wait for every paper, every license for years. Oh, I'm sorry, we've been waiting for every license for every paper for years. Imagine if we had two commissions in every institution in every place. I know that this power that has won fifty-five percent of all citizens of Serbia, the incredible support, can vote that we have a thousand commissions. It's important that everyone gets a party job, I get that. Do you see how much this essentially just multiplys regulations, administration and what really is irrelevant in the whole situation? When will you finally tell the public, go to the citizens and workers in Serbia and say how many people are going home, how many people will be fired, so how many people are left out of work under these reforms you're conducting? Is that 10, 20, 30, 50,000 people? How many companies, in which regions in Serbia? What are these people going to do, what are they going to live on? Do you have a solution or are you sending them straight to the street? That's, say, the question the citizens asked me to ask you. Since 15 September, when the deadline for the delivery of letters of interest has expired, more than a month has passed, and the Agency must know the blood count of our economy. I'm convinced that 90% of companies or at least 450 companies have no perspective with this kind of government policy, but if I'm wrong, then you have to deny me specific figures. Unfortunately, Serbian citizens, there are no such figures. I must say that this law regarding the public interest in the power line, Minister Antića, the Assembly has no insight into the elaborate adopted by the government, nor knows why it is passed, nor does it know what is the concrete benefit of an increase from 220 to 400 volts, which are deadlines, how much money Serbia will get to build the "Transbalkan Corridor" and the power line. What we know, Minister, is that this act, apart from the absolute giving in the hands of a company called "Electro Networks of Serbia", does not have a single letter that speaks of the protection of the environment and human health, especially in terms of harmful ionising radiation, which people today in Vinca are subjected to, potentially, if one of the power lines is built, which, however, is not related to this proposal, but is a similar thing. So you're showing how you're going to solve Vinci by not having one single letter on the protection of human health and the environment. We know this is about the treatment of alternative power sources under the auspices of the EMS. Serbian citizens need to know that JP EMS is given this law and that the knife in its own hands, determines everything that is involved. I can read to you by tomorrow these provisions that I think are illegal and unconstitutional. "Electro Networks of Serbia" and Mr. Nikola Petrovic, a man close to Alexander Vukic, the godfather of Aleksandra Vukic, runs this company. Together with some others, they control alternative energy sources. This is a law for him passed and you bring it to the Assembly and you think no one sees it in Serbia. No, absolutely nowhere to be mentioned in accordance with the Law on the Protection of the Environment, nowhere. There's no mention of, say, Article 6 of Section 3 is a disgrace. He says: The right of a citizen to property and the freedom to dispose of its property guaranteed by the Constitution is derrogated. The "Electro Networks of Serbia" can be owned on the basis of a solution, without a plan, without payment. They decide when they're going to build. This is outrageous, so far unrecorded. It is that public interest can prescribe everything, but if we do for every company that you control, which is luxuriant to you, there is not one area in Serbia that will not be of public interest, i.e. Your interest. It's all of an interest. What do we need the Expropriation Act for? What is it that, when we make a new law, without deadlines, Article 14 will immediately be implemented, issuing acts at the request of the public undertaking EMS. There's no time, no time, no time, no matter what, if it's a negative solution, Minister, it doesn't say anything. Obligation to issue a document and everything and how it requires EMS, under this law, pursuant to Article 14. In accordance with Article 11. - the obligation to conclude contracts with the EMS, not their own will on their own choice on the basis of fulfilled legal requirements. There are no legal conditions, only what EMS says, "Electro Networks of Serbia", Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10779	Mr. Stefanovic, 20 minutes are up.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10780	Anyway, I want to finish by asking you to try some of these questions to answer, thank you for giving me an extra few seconds, and for us to try to save what is to be saved from these proposals that contain a lot of ambiguity and inaccuracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10781	Thank you. The right to a replica has a colleague, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10782	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know that there are people in this room, as a previous speaker, who would like to have some rubber and delete everything, and to mutilate everything they've ruined, mutilated in the period of the former regime and the former government, all those people who have been unhappy, all those companies they've ruined, all to forget, nothing to be known and to place everything in the hands and back of Alexander Vukic and the Government, who was formed by the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And that's what those people who introduced 162 firms from 2003 to 2013 say in the restructuring process, who did not finish the procedure in any company, which each year put a burden on the back and the budget and the citizens of Serbia, 60,000 people. Eight hundred million euros cost those companies every year. They showed ignorance, inertness and inability to complete the restructuring process. It was appropriate for them to be in the restructuring process because they took the best parts of these companies, privatized, kidnapped, stolen and taken for themselves. Who formed all the authorities and who created life by 2012? Who brought 502 companies to the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency? Why isn't the privatisation process over? What's the state of this company? When I said they had a burden on their conscience of 400,000 people who had left no job, no job, no future, no nothing, the same Democratic Party, the same Borislav Stefanovic, the same Borislav Pajtic, those same people were doing all that. And now they've come to salt their minds, to say what's wrong with it, those same ones who say now what's wrong with Er Serbia, a company that's an example in Europe of how it's formed...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10783	Two minutes, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10784	... as the number of passengers increases, as revenues increase. Why didn't they accept when I called them and now I'm calling them - let's go to the airport, let's see what the conditions of work are, let's see what kind of planes are flying, let's see how this company operates now? He's turning his head. He throws Mrs. Comic, throws, doesn't want to hear it, but he can see it. That's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10785	Thank you, Mr. Granny. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: another sentence.) Why is he attacking the EMS? Why is he attacking himself? Now I'm going to tell you about the EMS results. The results are being attacked, our country's success is being attacked. That doesn't fit the former regime. Mr. Djukanovic, are you answering the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10786	Thank you. I don't know why you didn't let me before. Not earlier, but the speaker before him severely violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. 106th and 107th. Article 107 because he insulted this parliament's dignity by bringing out many false things and 106 because he least spoke of the agenda. He almost didn't touch the agenda at all. He talked here about how he knew how to sell "Politics", I guess by auto-projection, because they sold the same "Politicals" to a Moscow firm at the end of their term, that we have no idea today who is essentially the owner of the "Politicals", or "Evening News". I must admit, I have brought here an action plan for a better life for the citizens from 2008 to 2011, which was precisely what his party had brought. He says – privatisation, completion of the privatisation process, effective bankruptcy process. Citizens were able to see 2011 end this efficient privatisation. Since they had nothing to do with it, I only remind them of Ces Mekon, who was among other things a Privatisation Agency adviser, and some of them were employees of the Privatisation Agency and carried out robbery privatisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10787	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. First I have to answer to Mr. Djukanovic. Mr. Djukanovic, I have repeatedly warned Mr. Stefanovic to return to the agenda and agenda points. I can say he's done it several times, but he's always somehow connected his discussion after my warnings to the agenda theme. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10788	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, I am advocating Article 108, and on the subject of Members 107 and Members 106. Therefore, in the second position, Article 108 says - due to the breach of order at the session, the president of the National Assembly can give the measures of recalling the words and moving away from the session. The 107th says – a speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Article 106. – the speaker can only talk about the points of the agenda on which the earthquake is being conducted. So I believe that the speaker whose speech and advertising made this breach of the Rules of Procedure did not respect the dignity of the National Assembly and did not speak of the agenda. Speaking of privatisation and trying to take the blame for the general grabbing that was carried out since 2000 on a new government, trying to do so severely injured the dignity of the National Assembly and did not talk about the agenda point. For me, it's the same as if the guilty man were to make an insight. So those who have done the greatest damage to social property, those who have left 500 thousand people out of work, when they are talking about how some new government is responsible, should know that this is a brutal violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Those watching this TV broadcast have a little more memories than previous speakers have, so I believe they could notice that those who have privatised sugar for three euros at times when citizens have lost everything, and transition masters, friends of their political party have received everything, that today the people who have made it possible for them, to be suddenly rich overnight, brutally trying to harm the dignity of the National Assembly and to blame the blame on some new government, which has found only the remains of the formerly powerful economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10789	Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, I understand that you think that... (Marian Risticevic, from the post: You should not vote. I'll make you a deal, though. You believe that I have violated the provisions of article 108. The Rules of Procedure, which stipulate that if there is a breach of order at the sitting, the chair may make a statement amongst other reminders of taking words or away from the session. I am not ready for one such discussion as Mr. Borislav Stefanovic had to give a warning, although I know he would have been eager to wait. I'm not ready to give him such pleasure. You have already declared that you do not want the Assembly to plead in the voting day. The word is Alexander Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10790	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 103. Rules of Procedure, and in relation to Rule 107. Therefore, Article 103 says that the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president, and in relation to article 107, which says that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. You, Mr. Chairman, have allowed Mr. Stefanovic, for 20 minutes and a little bit more than that, to talk about all sorts of nonsense here, the untruths he made trying to expose himself in a Volcheban and very perfidious way to take responsibility for all that happened in privatisation until 2012 to the Serbian Progressive Party. It is he here as leader, as head of one party who is the most responsible for everything that has happened, for all examples of robbery privatisation, for what the people call "burazer privatisation", for sale, and I would say the kidnapping of state property. So, for everything he tried to put us as a burden of some past is exactly his party responsible. I think you had to warn him, take his word and warn him. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10791	Thanks, buddy. I can only tell you that I, from the position of the chairman, cannot interpret what anyone is saying, whether it is true or not. It's mine to make sure it's on the agenda or not, and I leave that part of the job to the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia. I guess they know best, firstly Serbian citizens, who the government was. I'm not gonna do that at all. The other thing, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you think something is false in the discussions, you have the right to state it. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. ) Just a minute, Mr. Stefanovic, I would like to give you the right to a replica, however, colleague Gordana Comic is seeking a violation of the Rules of Procedure My colleague, Alexander Jerkov, is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Gordana Comić, from the place: No, Replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10792	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Well, we've talked about this before, and you're now a few members of the SNS or from your parliamentary group, allowing the breach of the Rules of Procedure to reflect on what the head of the DS Parliament Group was saying. As an insult to the Rules of Procedure, one MP advertised that he felt that the previous speaker spoke nonsense and simply let us know if that's how it's going to work...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10793	I'm sorry to interrupt, but I'll answer your question, on one condition, to tell me which part of the Rules of Procedure, by which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10794	Article 103 has been injured. A Rules of Procedure that makes it clear...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10795	He was a member of 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10796	It's not the same case, it's the advertising of a second violation of the Rules of Procedure, not another member.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10797	I can't tell if I'm doing the same thing right now. Please, if you think...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10798	The former speaker's abuse of his right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10799	My colleague Jerkov, you are now pushing me, if you continue to advertise Article 103 that I am violating the Rules of Procedure and in material law.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10800	You've been breaking it in the last ten minutes, so I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10801	That is your opinion, the National Assembly will make that statement if you wish.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10802	But you won't let me, which is why I think you're violating the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10803	Please state any other provision other than Articles 103, 104, 105, 106, 107 and 108. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10804	Can you tell me how long that time limit lasts when that member can be advertised again?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10805	This time limit shall take place until the words of the first MP who participates in the debate led by parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10806	You made that up now. Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10807	Well, I can't hurt the Rules of Procedure more times than one.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10808	That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10809	Neither do I. There's no one else. Fellow Members of the People as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10810	I don't know, Mr. Arsic. How can I explain it to you? The session runs in some real time. That means every time you can hurt the Rules of Procedure on a different basis. The same breach of the Rules of Procedure cannot be advertised, not the same member of the Rules of Procedure. Please read what it says in Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10811	Let's read what it says in Article 103. Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10812	The MP cannot point to the same breach of the Rules of Procedure that has already been indicated. It relates to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, not to a member. And not to mention the fact that a previous colleague falsely reported the adjudication of Article 103, since he didn't explain at all why he felt that a member of the 103 was injured. I'm telling you, I think you hurt him because you let your colleagues replicate instead of talking about what they think you're wrong and I'm gonna end up on it. Thank you. Don't just let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10813	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? If not, the word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10814	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When there are no arguments, then you go in attacks on a person. That's what we heard from the leader of the majority. And it keeps going on and on and on and on and on and on and on, I don't know why. We've asked very precise questions. We've received insults. We got the hate they like to talk about. Again, I am telling them, please, honourable Members of the Government, ask Mr. Sinisha Mali, ask Mr. Kotic, ask Mr. Nenad Mijailovic, he is now the secretary of state at Mr. Vujovic's, and he was with Mr. Dinkic. So, ask them, don't ask me, don't burden the citizens with these things as much as anyone has lost, as much as anyone has won, all people know. What the citizens of Serbia do not know was my very precise question – when, how will you complete this process, taking into account these provisions that you are now making, how will this process help? When will you leave your politics? Which I've defined the following way. So, in January, you said, the money in April, since that promise, has been a year since, late Zoran Radmilovic, Billy Piton, the Marathons are running in an honorary circle, when will you leave the politics of distracting Serbian citizens? When will you stop personally experiencing arguments that are presented and questions that are legitimate, thus proving that it does not seem to be a godfather to you as soon as you jump like steamed today in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10815	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. I'm just asking you, if anyone thinks that a term is offensive or not, it can be a very broad term. But please, don't use hate words in the National Assembly, at least not if that's not justified. I didn't estimate it was justified. That's what I'd like to ask you for in the future. Mr. Babic has the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10816	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will answer the question with great pleasure. We will not change politics because this policy of Aleksandra Vukic and the SNS brings results fortunately to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and to the misfortune of the former regime that will never return. Those results are clear. Here, the Republic of Serbia National Employment Service, April 2012, unemployment rate 25.5%. The Serbian Progressive Party takes part in the government and the past and runs this Government of the Republic of Serbia in the first quarter of 2014, the unemployment rate remains high, but 20.8%, almost 5% lower, and 45,000 people in the real sector found and got a job, while in the second quarter, 20.3% is the unemployment rate. We're not talking about the funniest things, I'm talking about the exact ones. This is the result of the policy of Alexander Vukic and the SNS and we will never leave that policy until we continue to lower the unemployment rate. As for the relationship and the connection, do you know why the former speaker, who spoke before me, you know why I'm disturbing the Serbia Elektro Network? Well, it bothers Serbia's Power Network because of the results. Well, for the results, Mr. Chairman. In 2011, the investment of Serbia's Elektro Network, planned for seven billion 665m dinars, reached 49%. In 2012, of eight billion 209 million, reached 60%. But it bothers Mr. Nikola Petrovic, who showed the results in 2013 and six billion 148 million worth of five billion 817 million or 95% investments. It is a shame, because it has increased the revenues of Serbia's power grid and made revenue to Serbia's budget. It's a shame, because it's been certified by the EU to the public firm of Serbia's Elektro Network. Disturbing over the results of Serbia's Elektro Network.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10817	The word is from a colleague of Gordana Komic. Please, on what grounds? (Gordana Comić, from town: Replica. I'm sorry, I didn't notice anyone...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10818	The chairman, MP Zoran Babic, in his replication of others, took the right to explain to the public and to convey my behaviour. It's a basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10819	Is that the basis for the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10820	Yeah, because it's not true what he's telling the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10821	I can't give you that right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10822	I know, that's what Alexander tried to do. When I throw, it's beyond doubt. I ask that the MPs do not, without great need, imitate Alexander and the techniques that they are trying to arm the conduct of MPs who are silent in the O.R., do not use, especially if the chairman considers it legitimate. Yes, but it's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10823	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10824	I'm going to call again for the violation of the 107th insult of dignity, because someone told me and other colleagues that we're spreading our hatred for someone here because you imagine, we're responding to the amazing things and the truths that have been brought here. You had to warn Mr. Chief of Parliament, perhaps even the parties, I don't know anymore, since there's always some rebellion in that party, but why? Because if we are already asked to ask certain people how privatisation was carried out under the laws they have passed, I ask the same question – what was done by Mr. Zvonko and Dusan Nikezić, as well as by Mirko Cvetkovic, otherwise top members of the DS, but the firm Ces Mekon, which advised the Privatisation Agency, and they were employees of the same agency and thus conducted privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10825	Mr. Djukanovic, you are now using the right to violate the Rules of Procedure as a replica. I can inform all fellow Members of the People's Parliament that in the future I will sanction this as provided for by the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP is Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 106 has been injured talking about the speaker being able to speak only about the agenda point. There's a certain Billy Pitton mentioned here. The Serbian Progressive Party asks which Billy Piton in the AP Vojvodina designed the robbery so that 108 companies get from the Regional Fund for subsidising new technologies in Vojvodina over 35m euros for subsidies and that these same Billy Pitoni in the image of the president of the province's government and Mr Dragoslav Petrovic have never published a single contract...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10827	Mr. Martinovic, please. You're too late. That part of the session was at 10:00 this morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10828	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to connect that part to what it's all about. Remember it was those pythons who kept asking Mr. Alexander Vukic to publish the Ethyhad Treaty, to publish this contract, to publish that contract, and never to publish any of the 108 contracts, which cost the citizens of Vojvodina more than 35 million... People's MP Zoran Babic, from the scene: Why? [[off microphone]] ) (National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, from the post: I did not finish my exposure to the injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10829	I thank Mr. Martinovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? This cannot possibly be doubled under the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Borislav Stefanovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10830	I'd like to thank Mr. Chairman, if we could try to lower our passions. We have clear legal proposals. I'm asking the ministers to answer the questions. I understand everything we've heard. I'd just like to say that the Serbian Power Networks have a monopoly and because they have a monopoly, it's very easy to talk about someone reducing losses. When there's a monopoly, it can't carry electricity in buckets, but what we have is also an alternative energy source dealing with the narrow circle of people that I've listed here. What's the problem? Why are you jumping? Why are you yelling? You've got organized crime management in all the duchy funds, almost two years, four years. It's your rear-view mirror, it's your promise in January, the money in April, it's been a year, gentlemen. Gentlemen, you promised a better life. You promised to end the privatisation. You promised, we have so many offers, we don't know what to do with them. You promised me a lot of things.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10831	I'm asking my colleagues not to get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10832	You have to understand one thing, the judiciary in this country must work impartially, the privatisation agency must work impartially, unpartially, not setting up business buddies to earn money. That's what we're asking for, and you're yelling for no reason when you have no arguments, because the facts, gentlemen, are like that. It's facts, we didn't make it up, it says in the proposal. It's quite clear. Mr. Arsic, I ask you to stop discussing who conducted the privatisations, because Mr. Sinisha Mali was in charge of the tender privatisations until he moved to the SNS camp. I'm asking you to stop it anymore, because there's no point in this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10833	Right by the Rules of Procedure or the replica? You'll be the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Martinovic? Zoran Babic, breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10834	No, Mr. Martinovic was injured by the Rules of Procedure, and I was injured by the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10835	All right, Mr. Alexander Martinovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10836	A member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly was injured. Unfortunately, there are few police officers, few judges, few prosecutors in Serbia how many criminals and thieves are in the DS. That is the case, according to the company Dentosan Trade from Novi Sad. The company received 151,612 euros in subsidies for the introduction of new technology, for the production of brushes. The donated money company returned, "by delivering 142.927 small toothbrushes"...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10837	Mr. Martinovic, can you please just explain to me what this has to do with Article 107?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10838	There is, because it was mentioned that, if all is clear, why doesn't someone get arrested, and I say, there are few people who do this job, how much crime there is in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10839	It's a matter of discussion, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. If you want to replicate as deputy head of the parliamentary group, I'm not defending you, but don't abuse the right to injure the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10840	Mr. Chairman, I hope you agree with me that every MP in Parliament explains the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as he thinks best. This is my political style and I am working hard to explain, that the previous speaker has hurt the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to make it possible for me to do so. So the company Dentosan Trade returned the subsidy of over 150,000 euros by delivering 142.927 small toothbrushes, whose value was estimated by the province's Science and Technological Development Secretariat to 74.322 euros and another 106.560 large toothbrushes, at a total price of 59.673 euros. What are those big, little toothbrushes made of? Of gold, of silver, of diamonds, when does it cost so much?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10841	Thank you. Right on the line, Zoran Babic, and this ends the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10842	Mr. Chairman, I do not wave papers and some works that may be plagiarism, which the previous speaker, not, of course, means Mr. Martinovic, serves. I'm talking about things that are very accurate and very exact. Again, representatives of the former regime do not respond to the success of our country, they do not want to see everything done in "Er Serbia". They do not want to see what is done in "Electro Network" Serbia, if it is a public enterprise, according to the previous speaker, a monopolies, why have they not achieved such business results? Why, while the former regime managed the company, why they did not receive certificates, everything possible, and the EU's recognitions in the transparency and way of managing the "Electro Networks" of Serbia. Why didn't they make the results so that 95% of the plan and investment was made? Why didn't they finish the project that started in 1981, which is the 400th kilowatt Belgrade-20 station? By 2011, 2012 the rate of achievement was 25% and in 2013 more than 80%. More was done in a year by EMS and Mr Nikola Petrovic than they did in 30 years. Why didn't they finish the 400th kilowatt trafo station Vranje-4, which started in 2011, and in 2014 was the opening in November? These are the results that bother you. That's what's not responding. On the other hand, I would remind you, someone who has knowledge that a crime has been committed, and he's covering up with such fine questions here in the National Assembly, and he doesn't want to say his name or how, with any evidence, it's also a crime. Therefore, Mr. Martinovic is right and I really object to why you interrupt him, because anyone who initiates that a crime has been committed conceals a crime, and there is only because of some political, petty, cheap points of pure hatred, I think you have to sanction it in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10843	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The first one was Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10844	I think, Mr. Chairman, despite your good will and attempts to bring down certain heated passions here, is the most flagrantly broken Article 107. The Rules of Procedure by Mr Martinovic, who is in the heat of his discussion and in the primal need to show his true face, said that members of the DS are criminals. It's not the first time... (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: What is the member? I said which member. It's not the first time Don't talk about replicas, since you've been doing nothing else for the last hour, misusing the Rules of Procedure. [[Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Is this a replica?]] (Zoran Babic, from the place: What is this? So here we have had the opportunity to hear the most cruel insult possible for anyone who is not in their camp. You as chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10845	All right, I understand what you're looking at in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10846	You were obliged to react not only as, don't say it, but since this is the third time for the gentleman, for the fourth time, to give him a warning, that we finally see that one of them twists their pockets on the board by administrative means, not just here to insult us without any grounds and accuses us of being criminals, because this Assembly is not their stable to behave like this. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: What does it look like to call your colleagues horses? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10847	Mr Stefanovic, I am asking you now, you have used a very inappropriate term in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since I see the situation has stalled, applying Article 112. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I set a five-minute break, until a little hot passion calms down. We continue work at 13.20 p.m. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Mr. Martinovic, you haven't given up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Martinovic, I will give you my word, but I ask you not to use difficult terms that give personal qualifications anymore in your presentation. So, now the same criterion for all the MPs, which you have offended each other, is, I think it's time for this discussion to end and return to normal flows. Here you go. (Zoran Babic, from the post: What is this advance warning, Mr. Chairman? )
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10849	Mr. Chairman, a member of 108 who speaks of order at the National Assembly session has been injured. I don't know if you've noticed, but while you're talking about using hard words, when I spoke, then the MPs of the former regime told me that I was a war criminal. Here, I admit I'm a war criminal, but I didn't do what they did when it came to the company...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10850	Ambassador, you've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're being abused. You're going into replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10851	No, I'm explaining the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10852	All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10853	So, I didn't do what they were doing, and otherwise the big honestists from the DS, when it comes to the company "Aroma Plast" from Armenians, which received 200,000 euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10854	Ambassador, it's a replica after all. I know what a replica is. I know you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to explain the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Vice-President of Parliament which at that time led the session. Don't cause any further controversy.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10855	I'm discussing a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's not. Here, as a war criminal, I explain how the province of Vojvodina was robbed, that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10856	You're not a war criminal.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10857	That's what the chairman should have warned those who threw it to me. So the Jermenovac Aroma Layer company was given 200,000 euros in subsidies from the Vojvodina Fund for subsidising new technologies and that is a fact and that is not a difficult word. It's just, it's a fact. The company returned the amount of 200,000 euros by being ordered by the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10858	Ambassador, no hard feelings...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10859	Thank you for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I've heard it for real. Thank you, I know you won't be angry. I thank you, indeed, for saying what a violation of the Rules of Procedure is. Here's just two more sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10861	I can't give you two more sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10862	Perhaps the minister would be interested in what's going on in our province.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10863	No, he's not interested in the minister of this spell between MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10864	These aren't charms, these are examples...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10865	I don't want to discuss it. So now we have an hour-long break for lunch so the session can run its course properly. I noticed that a colleague, Vice President Arsic, tried it with five minutes, failed. An hour of regular breaks and we'll continue to discuss the laws that are on the agenda. With the full respect of all MPs, I think we should discuss the laws. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10867	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly I will talk about amendments and additions to the Law on the Privatisation Agency, which is one and a logical and normal trail of events compared to August, when the Privatisation Act is passed in this House, in line with the new conditions and new models to be applied in the privatisation process, which we all hope will end by the end of this year. The amendments to this law, as well as amendments and additions to the Investment Funds Act, are also important for us because of the strategic issues and the strategic aspect of our country's functioning in the coming period, especially when it comes to economics and economic development, which is that we finally become at full capacity a market economy, as well as other developed European countries, the United States and other countries that have developed markets. I will note that so far the market for goods and services, the labour market, and the securities market of value, or the capital market cannot say that it works, especially the market economy cannot function in those conditions when we still have 502 companies in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency to privatise and 148 companies in the restructuring process. We hope, and the minister himself said that interest is such that at least one good percentage of these companies will be able to manage, in line with these new models that are planned, to privatise, to come up with a model of strategic partnerships and to find ways to work together with our partners from abroad, but also make domestic companies that are in restructuring and that are in the privatisation process sustainable and that they can function and be competitive at regional but global level in the coming period. What is also important is the unification of the functions of the liquidator and the bankruptcy manager. What I think was missing from the Privatisation Agency as an institution that carried out the privatisation process, which promoted it, is this control function and the control aspect that was so missing that we now have a situation that in over a third of the privatised enterprises in these cases the privatisation was broken. There's been a lot of speculant capital. When we reduce the accounts and when we do a clear analysis, we can say that privatisation has failed in our country and that, in fact, this government and Mr Sertic, who took this hot potato out of the process, has a very difficult job, to make our economy such that it is a market economy, and to make from well-devasted enterprises in a good percentage in the process of restructuring and through the promotion of the multiple enterprises, those enterprises for which someone from abroad or some domestic investors, why not the investment fund, interest, buy it or approach it as a partner within the strategic partnership. What I would underline when it comes to amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act, is that the capital market, i.e. the securities market of value is one of the three main pillars of the functioning of one market economy for many reasons. In the past 24 years, when we entered the transition process, we couldn't make an institutional aspect, and we couldn't make one critical mass of companies, big investors' companies, but also those small investors who have the right and have the ability to broadcast securities of value and make one market of values that will primarily, which is a practice in developed countries. I'm going to set an example of the United States, where 45% of the company is funding its business, its new projects, the diversification of its work right through funding and broadcasting of shares or securities of value. So in European countries, we are almost done when it comes to the value paper market, when it comes to financing companies through this aspect of business and broadcasting, in fact, and that we do not have. I think it's an institutional thing that this government and our country have to solve in the next period. We've had so far, I hope that there will be some changes here, the Securities Commission, which in the past two, two and a half years has been more concerned with the profits in that commission and some peripheral things than with what's most important. What's the most important? It is to create a favourable and quality environment, to promote through legislation and all other aspects for which the Commission is responsible to create an ambience so that investment funds can come, that our country is attractive, but that our companies are also encouraged, especially the start-up of the company's app, I will remind you that a large percentage of the start-ups in the U.S. concerning information technologies is just funded through the broadcasting of actions, i.e. the broadcasting of securities of value. Given that information technologies are one of the pillars, one of the main aspects of the future development of our country, where we have nou hau, where we have human resources that are competent, where we are attractive, where we expect maybe tomorrow investments and Mubadals and other companies that are relevant, I will remind you that the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dacic, had a big conference in the United States where all the great players in the American and world markets participated, starting with Intel, Apple, Microsoft, Google, Ibea, Amazon, who are interested in coming into our country. What is very important is that, in addition to these foreign investors, we animate and encourage and domestic small companies to be more proactive and that they can, of course, be on the market of paper of value to adopt the idea, nou hau, the business plans, broadcast charters of values that someone will buy, whether it's households, whether it's other companies, it's totally not important, but that they can come up with money to develop their business and so they can expand it and diversify it. Of course, no one's goal in our country, especially this government, is that our economy is based on simple reproduction, but actually on an extended one. It's the essence of this investment fund law, to create a quality environment. The investment threshold needed to establish the investment fund is reduced. What is very important for both the Ministry and the Government, but also for the Committee on Charters of Values is to launch and encourage households in our country to save through exactly these investment funds or tomorrow pension funds, since this is also an inseparable part of this policy and the creation of a quality securities market of value, and of course, tomorrow of potential investors, not only in the region but abroad, because that way our funds that we form can be quality managers and quality investors in the region. I will remind you, for example, of the state-owned company Telenor, which is one big one, if not the largest investor in our country with a 1.6 billion-euro investment, which is actually owned by a 52% pension fund owned by the Norwegian state. So, it's a parallel one process that we have to cultivate and develop in that sense and encourage households themselves to activate and to do a part of the savings through investment in investment funds. Investment funds are very important because when you have individual investment in the stock market and in securities of value, transaction costs are large and simple investment funds are used to form and base themselves on a business that involves economies of scale, because when you look into practice, buying 50 shares costs nothing less than buying 10,000 shares on the stock market. So the smaller the transaction costs, the more stimulating they are for investment funds and for all investors, so they are also small investors with $500 or $1,000, but if you want to invest through a $5,000 investment fund, you will only have transaction costs to eat half that amount. If you have a hundred smaller players to invest that money, it won't cost that much. It is therefore necessary to encourage, therefore, to fully support the implementation of this law and to support and relax the opening of investment funds in our country. Also, this law regulates the work of bank cascades, which is very important and they have become involved in this aspect of business and governance in terms of investment and investment funds themselves. I'm just going to remind you that in the United States, only in 1999 did this famous Grem Legasi Layley law that provided and approved banks to be able to deal with these affairs. Of course, in many cases, as we have had the opportunity to see in practice, there have been great abuses, but, in any case, if you have banks that are serious, which have serious and liquid capital, which are operating in profit and work in the region, we can trust that they can do these cascade jobs in one real and quality way and, of course, should encourage them in this and parallel through this aspect they will also have greater motivation to work more with both the economy and the start-up of the app companies, that in addition to the profits they have through the management of the funds, additional part of the profits can actually be realised through the lending of small businesses or the start-up of the business, which is not the case for us right now. I'd like to make one suggestion to the Honorable Minister, and that's just to think about it. Serbia currently has such a position in both the region and the world. Our international position has never been better in the past 24 years, freely and responsibly I can say, let's use that position to think about the idea of forming a regional stock market. That regional stock market never existed. I don't think it would cost much, but since we'd have a market of 25 million to 30 million people who would potentially invest and save, we'd have a market that would be multiple times higher than Serbia. It's a serious basis and a aspect in which, Mr. Minister, it can be considered in this sense to be a part and to be the driver of such an idea that, for the main purpose of the development of the securities market, it's worth it. There is no need to be a great economist to know that without that market and without that aspect of business, we cannot develop in one quality way our economy, nor can we experience an economic boom and come to what we all think about and surely dream about, which is that our economic growth is 5% a year. We have all the conditions for it, we have the natural resources. This government has set out dynamically to pass laws that, for the main objective, provide a quality environment for investment and business. We've passed a new Labour Act, the Banking Act and the Privatization Act. This is what will further encourage our economy, but I think that, in parallel with these reform laws, we can also think about developing a value charter market, because that way those players that we want will come to us. These are the best, most liquid, largest multinational companies that, by potentially investing in Serbia, will pull many, many other companies from certain countries that, by the nature of things, are both economically and in practice and in theory proven, go after these large companies and seek that destination that is favourable and where they can do quality and good business. I am sure that the Republic of Serbia will be the best investment destination in the coming period. I'm sure you, Mr. Minister, have these capacities when it comes to your team, and also your personal knowledge and practice that you have through private business, to understand this and to implement such a policy that in the short run will be able to lead to quality economic growth, to have re-industriousization of our economy and, most importantly, to attract as many quality investors as possible. I have to remind myself of one anomaly that's been happening to us over the past years, an analysis of the World Bank, which is giving productivity to people who are currently working at 40%, and that's actually one of the main aspects, the main reasons why we're not competitive, and why we can't achieve what's our top priority, which is to be the exporting country. As an exporting country with 40% labour productivity, we can't do that at all, so I think we need to work on that in terms of retraining, retraining, investing in education, what you've always talked about, connecting the needs of an economy with education, especially high, with scientific and technological development, and that these parallel processes can lead to the fact that as an economy, an economy and, of course, the country, as they would say economically, we go out to the green branch. Of course, the SDPS and our MPs will vote in favour of these bill proposals and you will have full support in their implementation and implementation by our party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10868	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10869	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, when we look at today's agenda again, we have an emergency law, and I would continue to warn that the progress report, let me say, received a warning because 92% of the previous year of the law was adopted by an emergency procedure. The Privatisation Agency Act, other than trying to coordinate the work of the Privatisation Agency with the Privatisation Act, has certain, to say, inaccuracies. In the first place, Article 10 states that the Agency can submit a proposal to initiate the bankruptcy procedure of the privatisation entity, which is in direct conflict with Article 2 of this same law, where it says the Agency is submitting the case. Therefore, since the Banking Act stipulates that when fulfilling certain conditions, and cannot launch bankruptcy, it is necessary to bring the law into line with itself, as well as with the Banking Act, therefore, that the Agency should initiate bankruptcy proceedings and not that it can be initiated. It's a bonding character of the law, not a matter of choice. There is also a lot of inaccuracies in Article 15, where the committees accompanying the privatisation process are specified, and there is a direct entry into the jurisdiction of privatisation by setting out that the minister responsible for business education is the commission. Therefore, the Privatisation Act, the procedure, the implementation and control of the privatisation process, so what is defined by Article 7 is in the direct jurisdiction of the Agency, and the proposed proposal, i.e. We have a situation under the proposed law that the Minister, not the Director of the Privatisation Agency, educates the Commission. Also, it is disputed that both Article 15a and Article 15b state that the commission has five members, one of which is the chairman of the commission, but is not listed who appoints the president. So, another inaccuracy in the sense that the one who educates the commission is appointed by the president of the commission or by the members of the commission to elect the president among themselves. Certain criteria for who may be a member of the Commission point 1) are also prescribed to have a higher education. There is no specific work experience, which is inadmissible for us. So, according to the proposal you've sent us, a commission member who's going to be in serious business can be someone who's only highly educated without a day of work. We feel it is necessary to supplement this criterion and specify, for example, We have predicted by our amendment that seven years of employment is necessary, i.e. work experience. Also, one of the criteria is that a member of the commission is an expert in one of the business areas, which we think is a very broad definition, and we believe that this should be narrowed down to the area of privatisation, the area of bankruptcy, the area of activity or the establishment of companies, so not only to be an expert in one of the economic areas, because it does not mean that all economic experts are also professional in the privatisation or bankruptcy process. Of course we agree that the choice of a certain member of the commission should not be in conflict of public and private interest, but what the legislator, according to us, forgot to point out, is that a member of the commission is not a shareholder in a privatisation entity or a buyer of a privatisation entity. What about strategic partners or strategic investors? We predict that a member of the commission can neither be a shareholder or owner of a stake in a strategic investor, because it is a special type of privatisation without buying businesses. As far as the Investment Funds Act is concerned, we agree that this is a alignment with the European Parliament's directive. This law provides for certain reliefs for business, but what really bothers us is that the law did not create a certain environment to speed up the business activities of investment funds. So, we have a situation that the number of companies dealing with investment funds has fallen in the last six years from 15 to four, but other than those specific reliefs that are more or less symbolic, according to us, is not a law aimed at creating an ambience for opening or speeding up activities. As an example, I would quote Croatia, which still had over four billion euros in the market in 2008, which was the domain of investment funds, while Serbia was at that time at a symbolic 50m euros. We believe it is necessary to create an environment that would accelerate the business activities of investment funds. The Social Democratic Party has submitted certain amendments. We hope that you will also consider them depending on the adoption of these amendments, so at what level will the Privatisation Agency Act really comply with the Privatisation Act, we will define whether we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10870	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10871	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today we have had the opportunity to hear on the Committee the position of the ruling coalition on draft laws on the agenda, which relate to amendments and additions to the Law on the Privatisation Agency, the part relating to amendments and additions to the Law on Free Action Law, the part relating to our most interesting things, which speaks of the Trans-Balkan Corridor, namely declaring the practical public interest and expropriation system, which should enable better energy policy. What's amazing is that we've had the chance to hear that the development of regional energy policy is an idea that's a year old. I would just remind that Serbia is a signator of the 2005 Energy Community Agreement, that in 2010 the Council of Ministers signed and agreed to adopt a regional strategy from energy policy, that the part relating to regional integration in the energy sector refers to the single market for electricity, to improving supply and security in the energy security sector, to improving the state of environment protection and to part relating to the development of market competitiveness and the creation of the common energy market. This is not possible unless you have an infrastructure, and the basic infrastructure is practically a network, i.e. building a distribution system for power supply. Since Serbia is connected to eight countries in its neighbourhood, the participation of our delegations in regional conferences in this area has been very important. Perhaps you didn't know, those who were not informed, which is that there is a need to connect regionally firmly in the energy sector, not only because we are hit by certain large monopolist groups in the energy sector and large forces, developed states, but because there is a need to help each other. This was best seen when the floods were huge, because without such help we could not overcome the problems that occurred in the energy sector without talking about the financial resources that amount to up to 300m euros, which should have been quickly responded and reconstructed to the facilities in order to remain in office. At no time did you have any restrictions that were characteristic of 1984, the 1990s, during the wartime events in former SFRY space, or SRJ. Why am I saying this? Because the energy sector is shown today in a completely inadequate way. It was used to politicise between certain party attacks, and it doesn't belong there. Energy and the policy at all leading Serbia is the direction of European integration, and in this direction we are obliged to respect the third package of the EU directive and, as such, Serbia is really trying. That's the report from the Energy Community, which we heard last month on the Committee on Economy and Energy. What is important is that Serbia has made progress, and it has made significant progress because it has adopted a large set of laws and sublegal acts with which it is able to even talk about regional policy. What is important is that the objectives of this law, which relate to the construction of the transbal corridor, and this first phase, include a legal solution to the projects that are practically brought to the building permit itself. So nothing has been questioned, but has already been brought into line with agreements with Italy, with Montenegro, with agreements concerning the part that covers Romania. This is very important because you have seen that in this legal solution this interaction will give us the opportunity to have our condition with the EU, which is 27% of the participation of renewable energy sources, in total electricity consumption by 2020, is not possible unless we help each other, unless we build objects that are practically called renewable energy sources. I'll give an example, there are energy permits at the Ministry of Energy four years ago for wind parks of power, say, 280 megawatts representing a third of Đerdap, but they can never be realised because a large amount of funding is needed. More than 30m euros need to be invested in infrastructure, i.e. in Serbia's electricity network to rebuild a system that could trigger the wind farm. For such a thing, it was necessary to do legal preconditions to do projects that would no longer have an old network, type 220 kilovolts or 380 kilovolts, but we're going to go to a network that will have 400 kilovolt power supply. This is why projects like this are a strategic plan, not only of Serbia, but of the whole region and it is completely irrelevant, what we had the opportunity to hear, to do it for one company or for one individual. Some projects cannot live unless you, as a region, as an EU, are driving us towards this European path. So that story began a long time ago, that story about there are no environmental issues in these projects. To get a building permit, you have to do a strategic environmental impact assessment. It therefore suggests that the ministry in charge of construction and infrastructure must obtain all existing acts to enter into the realisation of such projects. I'm just going to read to you that the Energy Community on its ministerial council has taken the development policy of the region and made a decision in October 2012 where it practically adopted a list of projects of interest for the Energy Community. The list of 35 energy community projects 15 belongs to Serbia. One of those projects is this one. When we talk about the trans-Balkan corridor, this is the possibility of opening large investments, investments that, due to documentation, we were not able to realize, especially this first phase, and especially when we talk about respecting deadlines. We've never respected deadlines before when it comes to building permits for strategic projects. With this legal solution, we have ensured that the part relating to renewable energy sources is united, that they can even attach to the network, because today you have a very large number of energy licenses that have not released one kilowatt of time. Why? Because the network is unable to receive that amount of electricity that will be produced, either from solar power plants, or from wind parks, mini power plants. That's the path we want to take down all the obstacles we've had so far. With these investments, we are just opening up the possibility of an export-import component in society and we are practically reducing the level of CO2 radiation, which we are required by various acts, and most often by this, when we talk about energy, because these are the conditions under which such projects would be implemented. In the end, we get that through a phased approach, we can make the most of that connection with Romania. It is of great importance to us because these finished project solutions have been waiting for more than two years. When we talk about a very important regional approach and regional foreign policy, then we cannot get away from that security sector because energy is an important security sector. This protects this sector, where by connecting essentially many of the problems that are happening to us, not only in relations with the East and the West, but within ourselves, within the region, we can much easier access such a solution. We had opportunities at these regional conferences to hear problems being solved, but one of the most important conclusions was that without such projects, such as this, simply no one can go on. We will not be able to survive energy in the way it exists, because circumstances make us need to modernise, that we need to let investment enter Serbia, that we need to increase this business activity, and that we need to fill the budget from all these business activities, so that Serbia will only be better. When we are now adding to the Law on Changes and Supplements on the Privatisation Agency, one of the topics on the Committee was also the story of the EPS, the actions that Serbian citizens have and the part that applies to the period being extended by 2016, it is precisely showing that the EPS needs to implement one modernisation, and certainly its value and value of all these actions will increase when it has a better infrastructure, or better network, and especially with such projects, such as the Trans-Balkan Corridor, and this stage one, that level, that is, the value of public enterprise capital, such as the EPS, is growing. When we talked about amendments and additions to the Privatisation Agency Act, we said that and we had the opportunity to hear, that it was in fact the harmonisation of the Privatisation Act that we adopted, not so long ago. What's important to say is that if you followed closely, we defined the methods, measures and models by which privatisation will be made and in this one model is practically given that for these smaller companies, or smaller companies, the Agency is competent, in fact, for the whole job. If we gave her that jurisdiction, then we have to define her work in a way that's different. These changes and additions practically give this model of change of work, but it also gives this one control role and it's not normal for a working group to control the real Agency, but it's the same two-stage thing that needs to be done by the Ministry, because how would the Agency control itself? We had such examples from 2000 to 2012. It is good to have the control board in charge of the ministry, but as you have seen, there will be two agency employees and three members from different ministries, so there is the Ministry of Business and Finance and for work and social issues. So this government actually thought practically about all segments of society that appear as actors in general in this privatisation process. But we all forget one important item, which is that if we don't finish this job, it will still go 750m euros. All the companies we talk about and when we talk about privatisation are negative capital. So we're not talking about successful companies anymore, we're talking about firms with negative capital. Why do I keep saying that? Because we've gotten the impression that in previous discussions, this kind of solution has been given, that we need now to sort of sell out everything we have to our friends, acquaintances, and who's going to buy firms with negative capital? So you need to be a great master of economy and economy, first to convince all investors to actually come and buy these companies with this practical status. What the state will certainly do, which is that you saw through the Privatisation Act, which is to do that part of the assessment practically, not just capital, but those debts. For these debts, the state will enter into negotiations through certain committees with interested parties and that part will be the subject of negotiations for a further strategic partnership if everyone is interested. When we talk about the Privatisation Agency, what's really good is that now there are no more discretionary rights. So far we have had the opportunity to listen that there are discretionary rights, to determine how the privatisation of certain companies will be done. Now there is no more and what is still important, and that is that the Agency will really be able in an efficient and transparent way to complete this process. When we talk about the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens are making to the privatisation process, we are aware that many predecessors have promised and have never really achieved anything. And when we want to go out in front of citizens, extremely correctly, then we say that the principle of equality must apply and that is an integral part of this law. What does the principle of equality mean? You're all equal in a way, or payout, you're all equal to the amount of money you get for each action and you'll all get money in the same day. This principle of equality will now no longer dictate, not the stock market, not the intermediaries, but the simple state, or on the basis of its legal solutions. This law practically gives a change of legal form relating to the Action Fund, gives a change and a change in the concept of actions, when we talk about citizens and gives us the harmonisation of the Privatisation Act and what is the extension of certain deadlines, as I was talking about the EPS. The possibility of selling actions in later iteration is something that Serbia is coming out of it completely in an open way, which is investors who want to deal with buying open, free market shares, will be able to work exclusively on the principle of competitiveness. It is approximately that the highest bid should be given the right and thus the citizens of Serbia through the Fund and all those who own it, individuals of these actions will benefit greatly. Finally, when we talk about investment funds, we can't help but look at the fact that these activities have been highly dictated by the monopoly so far. These monopolies have been missing since 2012, and it has been observed that around the decline of activities related to investment funds has fallen. What does that mean? This means that we had a capital market for which investors were completely uninterested. As my colleague Marinkovic said, since the Finance Committee discussed the subject, many facts affecting the development of investment funds. What the state needs to consider, and the government is certainly considering, is that many of the problems relating to investment funds, and especially when we talk about debt, simply, if we encourage this environment for investment funds development, it will be much easier to resolve. Serbia's budget will no longer have to provide funds to support certain companies that are in some combined ownership, but will only operate the market. The basic principle is the profit of all these investment funds. In the end, I would say that what we had the opportunity to hear, large amounts of untruth as to whether we act as a certain government in principle as the SNS which is the headquarters of this government, which only promises and does nothing, is quoted as the part relating to the movie "The Marathons are running an honorary circle". I think the very name of the film is the image of those who gave such qualifications and indeed belong to them the last round in Serbia's political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10872	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need to pass laws and other acts on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. As the first speaker today, the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10873	Dear Minister Antić, Minister Sertic, with his associates, as already stressed by the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, the Socialists will undoubtedly support all the legislation we are discussing today in the voting day. I will refer in my discussion exclusively to the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Agency for Privatisation, because it is doubtless that today's debate, and especially that part of the debate, pointed out that more than correct was the position of the SPS as a categorical position in 2001, when we strongly opposed the adoption of one, we now all see Serbia's citizens feeling, the devastating Law on Privatisation, the law that generated literally all the problems that are causing inexplicably serious consequences today, of course, with great and inconspicuous damage. Why am I saying this? Because it is precisely the law that lacked what now, both the Privatisation Act and the proposed text of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency systematically regulates, which is finally the establishment of control mechanisms, control mechanisms that must undoubtedly be implemented and control and control over the very fulfillment of the privatisation contract, the fulfilment of the obligations of customers, the fulfilment of the obligations of the strategic partner. If this control mechanism had been established in any way, we would not have had so many harmful consequences to meet and to which many MPs pointed out. What we have repeatedly pointed out and what we are about to point out again, Mr Sertic, I mean your ministry, is the fact that precisely because of the lack of this control and this surveillance, it was that the subjects of privatisation are alienated, that they appear as buyers, even phantom faces, that customers appear and then phantomly disappear, literally suck out everything from the subject of privatisation, bring out both equipment and machines, leave the ruined objects or naked walls, and that is why the complete privatisation process is based. Of course, these system solutions in this direction represent a barrier both to such illegal practices and to the damage caused by these illegal proceedings. All day long, there have been speeches about how the basic objective of the proposed text of the law is to comply with the provisions of the Privatisation Act. That is true, but it is even more accurate that our obligation, our MPs, is primarily in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and all subjects of privatisation, is to consider what these objectives are to be achieved by adopting this proposed text of the law on amendments and additions to the law. First of all, by making it possible, on the basis of the already adopted Privatisation Act, for the ruined economy to begin to stabilise once, to attract investment and create a legal certainty field for investors and strategic partners. How? It is simply that, in addition to the obligation to introduce legal certainty, it also implies a causal obligation for a strategic partner or customer to accept certain obligations when buying a privatization entity. The most important thing is that now the privatisation process is completely transparent. In this regard, already when seeking this objective, the SPS parliamentary group provides strong support for these amendments and additions to the Privatisation Agency Act, given that this procedure now seems truly public, many data available to citizens, available to customers, available to strategic partners and what is most important with mandatory control by the state. Also, what has been pointed out more than once, it seems to me that Mr. Minister Sertic needs to be particularly absorbed through this discussion, especially given the fact that so far the Privatisation Agency has appeared often with too many discretionary powers not only, but also with powers beyond even the jurisdiction of the courts, and even the Privatisation Agency has been imposed by its decisions far above the courts, especially in those areas where the Privatisation Agency has the legitimacy of the bankruptcy administrator. It is true and it is not disputed that the Privatisation Agency can also initiate bankruptcy proceedings and liquidation proceedings. The bankruptcy procedure in situations and, if the conditions laid down by law are met, unless obligations are met, in particular the financial obligations of the privatisation entity over a longer period of time, unless the longer period of time works, does not meet the programme and I am not quoting now all these conditions prescribed by law. We must bear in mind one fact that has been a major problem so far, and this problem is generated by a bad legal solution when it comes to the privatisation agency itself. I'm going to identify these problems, and the SPS has never stopped where the problems occur, but has identified the problems in a pragmatic way, and that's how it's supposed to be, and that's the truth. So, truth. First of all, the problem occurred at the assessment, the value of the property. There were various appraisals, as the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, Mr. Dejan Radenkovic pointed out on several occasions, with a way of working that implies absolutely illegal work. More luxuriant nature and more beneficial nature than in the interest of citizens. That's why we came into a situation where the assessment of the property of the privatisation entities is done in a way that is least said odd. In addition, experts who also had a rather interesting method of skill and asset assessment were involved in court proceedings, which resulted in a virtually devastation of property. That had to get in the way, and I'm confident that the provisions of this law get in the way. But when we are talking about the way the Privatisation Agency appears as a bankruptcy manager, it is also for the Minister of Business, but also for the Minister of Finance very important to point out that the Privatisation Agency does not have to be a bankruptcy manager, or if it does not respond to the task and if it does not comply with the provisions of the law, both the Privatisation Act and the Law on bankruptcy, and in particular the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Privatisation Act, it is logical that the Privatisation Agency can be replaced. Unfortunately, we don't have a substitution of the Privatisation Agency in any other bankruptcy director in the law because we didn't anticipate one of those standards. We don't even have it in the Company Act, we don't even have it in the Privatisation Act, and we don't have it in the provisions of the Privatisation Agency Act. It would therefore be necessary to introduce a standard that implies the possibility of replacing the Privatisation Agency as a bankruptcy manager, precisely because of the restrictions on the authority of the Privatisation Agency, which can sometimes become self-involved. The second problem generated by the Privatisation Agency is the fact that the Privatisation Agency as a bankruptcy manager has affected the trial within an unreasonable period, i.e. that the Privatisation Agency has affected that bankruptcy proceedings take place inexplicably for a long time. How? It is precisely because when there is a sale of assets and an advertising of the sale of assets between two failed public sales that flows a huge period of time. Sometimes much longer than six months. You can't let that happen anymore. It's something that burdens the courts. It's something that puts at the same time with customers of privatisation entities, including strategic partners a great burden, because the one who decided to enter the privatisation process and buy the privatisation entity doesn't want to wait. In this case, that waiting has been inappropriate, inappropriately long. What the SPS also points out as a quality in terms of positive solutions, I mean those solutions that give positive consequences in relation to earlier legal solutions is the introduction of strict control over compliance with the customer's obligations but also strict control over the fulfilment of the strategic partner's obligation. Also, the qualitative solutions that represent a shift in relation to earlier ones are the erasure of the provision by which the privatisation process was linked exclusively to decisions of the Privatisation Agency, regardless of whether it was social capital or public capital. Let's split up companies with social capital and companies with public capital. So far, there has been one deep belief that we in the SPS parliamentary group are deviating and anachronic provisions, which is that such privatisation entities are being carried out by the Privatisation Agency, i.e. by the Privatisation Agency. It is precisely this law that prevents this, so now privatisation procedures for social capital privatisation entities are being initiated by the Resolute Ministry, which is your ministry, and in the case of public capital privatisation entities the government is launching and in certain cases local self-government as prescribed by the law. Indeed, in this respect, the SPS parliamentary group gives strong support to such a good legal solution. It should also be pointed out that in the case of bankruptcy, which I must return to, the Privatisation Agency appeared in certain situations with the requirements that have been approved, because they are so legally regulated, in a way that is absolutely inappropriate. Why? Because in the bankruptcy procedure, the Privatisation Agency exposed invoices to courts, i.e. consumers, with flat-rate amounts of 50,000 dinars, and that these costs have absolutely no coverage. When you look at the file of the bankruptcy case, there's absolutely no justification for such a cost. This is why it is really important now that when we talk about the provisions of the Privatisation Act and the Privatisation Agency, as well as the provisions of the Bank's Law, it is simple to finally specify and define the role of the Privatisation Agency as a bankruptcy manager. Of course, all the other provisions pointed out by my esteemed colleague from the SPS Group, Dejan Radenkovic, require attention and support and I will again point out that we are supporting these provisions to avoid something that has occurred very often so far, which has led customers and strategic partners away from our privatisation entities. When I talk about proposings, whether it's the Privatisation Agency, whether it's a government or a company, I have to call on one example, one typical case from my town where I come from, and that's Uzice. ‘24. September," which deals with the production of electricity facilities, is a 100 per cent enterprise owned by the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, when it entered the privatisation process, the trigger was the Privatisation Agency. It wasn't the Ministry, it wasn't the government. Unfortunately, because, according to earlier provisions of the Privatisation Act, there was a wrong way of assessing property and connecting with customers, the company was left without being able to find any strategic partner, either a buyer with an extremely uncertain destiny, and we know ourselves that this uncertain fate implies bankruptcy, is no longer a liquidation, that it implies that people go to the streets, that this implies the inability to fill the budget, that this implies a threat to the existential nature of a large number of family employees. And what did we come up with? We have come to the conclusion that this company is out of the interest of customers, out of the interest of strategic partners. It is well known to me as the MP that the company, the government's corresponding programme and the government's call, have considered the possibility of entering a strategic partnership, may have appeared somewhere, but given the fact that this company has failed in something that by nature things could be considered a quality solution and a natural solution, which is reintegration into the energy system, that is, the power supply system, where, by the nature of the activity that the company is dealing with, it is logical to be an integral part of the electricity system. Unfortunately, the legal frameworks did not allow it, and we again came to the same effect. All of this suggests that the problems behind us, all of this suggests that we've begun to solve problems with this bill on amendments to the Law on the Privatisation Agency. That is why, once again, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to point out that the Socialists and the SPS MPs in voting day will support and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10874	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10875	The new party will vote against this bill. We have already proposed 17 amendments, of 19 members, as many as this law has. Article 18 makes sense, and Article 19 is a formal necessity, so we have not submitted an amendment to either of those two members. It is absolutely pointless to put into the joint debate the draft law on the determination of public interest in expropriation. That law is probably fine, but it has nothing to do with these three laws that were proposed before that. The law amending and supplementing the law on the right to free action is in itself pointless, since both previous and previous Serbian citizens will not get anything free from this government, regardless of what the law says. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds Act is difficult to launch in Serbia, because it requires a normal economic environment, which has long been missing in Serbia. And it's not just this majority that's been in power for two and a half years or whatever, it comes from an earlier period. One cohesion factor for these previous authorities and for this government is exactly the SPS, but that's not the subject of what I want to say in these few minutes as long as there is left. The law on which we have given amendments, which practically delete this law and make it unnecessary, is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency. On 13 August, a new Law on Privatisation, announced as a world miracle, began to operate, which will solve all the privatisation problems in Serbia, and then nothing happened. No company is privatized. No privatisation procedures have been initiated. No privatisation procedure has gone beyond where it was before. No controversial privatisation or criminal privatisation, which is not 24 but 224, has been resolved. On the contrary, some new anomalies are constantly emerging that are not being solved. I think it is clear that the problem in Serbia is not this or that law, even if it was the Law on the Privatisation Agency, but one general corruption that is the biggest problem for investment, domestic and foreign. If you look at the reports, any association of foreign investors, US investors, association of small and medium-sized enterprises, all of them, except the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, of course, but all other associations of businessmen, investors, say corruption is the biggest problem. In addition, there is a complicated procedure and everything that does not create a good business environment and economy. Another thing is special arrangements. Special, huge, historic, economic contracts, agreements of course nothing is there, but around which you make big noises. We had one series of such special economic relations with the Russian Federation. Now special relations are in place with investors from the United Arab Emirates and the question is, where else are special connections being touched? As special as this is, I'll also tell you that these alleged investors from the United Emirates who have not invested a penny white or day-to-day in this country, or through "Etihad", "Er Serbia", or anywhere else. A month and a half ago, they gained Serbian citizenship. They also received Serbian passports, which is a very interesting thing. What happens to someone who has a passport from the United Arab Emirates for citizenship and passport of Serbia, unless it is the reciprocity that their partners from Serbia receive passports from the United Arab Emirates and their citizenship? But that's not the topic for this agenda point. What needs to change in Serbia, it is to create serious conditions for attraction. This bill doesn't make it. There are a couple of legal-technical corrections that are related to changes to the Law on Privatisation and some other laws, but all that is being praised here as some great novelty that will resolve the issue of privatisation in Serbia has already existed in previous laws, only it has not been implemented. Why wasn't it implemented? Now, that should be asked by those who haven't implemented it in the last ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10876	The word is Marijan Rističević. I'm sorry, the word has Zoran Babic, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10877	Thank you, Madam President. You know, it's one thing to say that there are no results, that there are no visible clues, but as I am in the morning part of the session, so even now, I'm going to invite the previous speaker to go together to Nikola Tesla Airport. I'm sure he's traveling outside Nis-Belgrade. We can't really see those ten planes A319 Erbas and A320. No one said those planes were new, but compared to JAT's age, which was over 25 years old where we functioned, and that question is what kind of function one or two had, that the rest were on some hangars and were on various repairs, and now we have one fleet that's bigger and bigger, contracts that were signed and about buying new planes. Indeed, every normal, decent citizen of this country should rejoice, as is meant to enjoy friendship, friendship that the Government of the Republic of Serbia makes and makes on all sides of the world. The friendship we have with both the UAR and the Bin Zayed family, because the product and co-operation, as well as the formed and co-operation with Etyhad, was formed by the ER Serbia, which is one of the ethlons, the way foreign investments are attracted, how one loser who annually cost all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as JAT and cost 55 million dollars. This year, for the first nine months, he made one million euros in profits.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10878	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10879	One is both cheerleading and partying and scarred, but the data and the truth is on the other side.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10880	Replica, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10881	Thank you very much. I didn't realize the basis for my predecessor's replica, but thank him for giving me the chance to say something in two more minutes. I haven't said a word about Banjski tourism and hospitality that should now be shown on that side. I was talking about the overall conditions for the development of the economy in this country. Of course I didn't even get an answer from the predecessors from where that exchange of citizenship came from? Is that some kind of preparation for a near future? But what's more important, it's a few questions raised by foreign investors, and I think the Minister of Business and the whole government is here to just create conditions for domestic and foreign investors to invest further in this country, and that's how the unemployment rate fell? We've been hearing for a few days that the unemployment rate is lower, and no one knows anyone in Serbia, anyone who's hired in the real sector. I'd like to get that answer. The question is the same, when will be budget rebalance and when will be next year's budget? Don't surprise us again that in some small hours, let's say on Sunday or Monday, it's ahead of us and that we're dealing with something that's budget rebalance, which should have already been over because of investment in our economy. Imagine an investor who is awaiting budget rebalancing for 2014, which is due to happen on 25 October 2014, so for what period of time this rebalancing applies, when we should already have indications and clear drafts of next year's budget. Finally, I think it's very important that we stop playing against capitalism. Whoever thinks he's bad, I recommend he go where capitalism doesn't exist, and I think we can create one fund, one special flight from ER Serbia, Belgrade -- Pyongyang.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10882	Just to answer for the rebalancing, the government is ambushed today and tomorrow, so it's perfectly clear that you're getting ready. Replica, Zoran Babic, has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10883	I hope I have two minutes to answer all this. As for the fight against capitalism, it must be a previous speaker who has asked his coalition partners who said that the development of a country must go through states, or public enterprises, and the concept of this government is strengthening the real sector, so I believe that this criticism is addressed to the DS. As for the question of how the unemployment rate fell to 20.3%, I think it's a much better and more realistic question, how did 26% of the unemployed happen in 2012? That it's much better to ask, how did 400,000 people lose their jobs during the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and DS? Let's ask how these people lost their jobs, not how they're in the real sector, because there's a ban on employment in public enterprises and in the state, how did it come to 20.3%, what is real and healthy data? Again, the question is how did it grow to 26%, the DS issue and the former regime. As for rebalances and budgets, only during the government in which the SNS has been participated, and the budgets were in the Constitution and the law guaranteed by the deadlines, until 2012, or until the 2013 budget, the budgets reached within a minute until midnight on December 31st, never in the guaranteed deadline. Then it happened for the 2009 budget that trade was done with some parliamentary groups, only to withdraw the amendments, so as not to go on temporary financing. Why don't you ask, by then, why hasn't one budget come into law and the Constitution guaranteed by the deadline? As far as citizenship is concerned, I don't know, but I do know one thing. Has the law been broken, if one by norms and by the law of certain norms, which it meets, been granted citizenship of the Republic of Serbia? Is the law broken that way? No, it's not a violation of the law. So I don't see the spectacularness of the issues, but it would be a much better question why have we reached the unemployment rate since 26% in 2012?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10884	Time, thank you. There's more ground for replica, it'd be interesting, but there's no more basis for replication. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10885	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, dear ministers, dear guests, I will first agree that there have been a lot of controversial privatisations with my previous colleague who spoke under the ordinary procedure, that the Arabs could have invested more than a passport. Our passport costs 3,700 dinars, which is about 30 euros equivalent. During the government's mandate, my previous speaker, three sugars were sold for three euros. Now I don't understand what a major sin is, to issue a passport for 30 or 35 euros or potential investors, or to sell three sugars to your party's financial director for three euros? Let our respected viewers decide for themselves what is more controversial and what is more expensive and what is cheaper. I also agree, and it seems that the French air that we breathe together is affecting the clear thought, I agree that special arrangements do not work, but I must remind myself of a special arrangement called "Sartid", which was implemented, I think, at the time of "Sablje", while my previous speaker was prime minister, when a special arrangement was made where all debts belonged to the state, and I think it was more than a billion marks, that Mr. Martinovic certainly knows, and "Gelezara Smederevo" was sold for 26 million per special arrangement, out of bankruptcy from the involvement of Kolesar and Janjusevic, special advisers in the government, which he also led my previous colleague, the farmer. As for the free shares that were received by 4.5 million citizens of Serbia, if I am not mistaken, I must note that those who do not remember it was an integral part of an election theft. This was done directly before one presidential election, in order for a party on whose list was my previous speaker, to win elections, or their presidential candidate, to launch an idea of free actions worth 1,000 euros for four and a half million citizens, but to check whether those rights were being exercised, they had to check directly before the elections whether they were on the voter's list. The best check to see if they were in the voter's list was to go to the polls, and when you go to the polls, whoever offers 1,000 euros can see in some ways, to control who you voted for, so whoever launched that idea, claimed from newspapers to newspapers, said in the news that the party's presidential candidate provided 100 to 700,000 votes depending on who he had made a statement. So much for actions that were free of charge, about the rights that the citizens inherited on free shares and cash compensation, which citizens make in the privatisation process. So not at all transparent, not at all fair from the former authorities that a privatisation in such a harsh way is misused for the purpose of a pre-election campaign, one electoral procedure, one candidate, and that just as those who profited politically, we have the most objections to some controversial privatisations. Let's talk about a controversial privatisation called the Ustasha Building. At the time of the privatisation, my colleague who spoke before me was the federal interior minister, and the Federal Defence warned the federal government in which he, whose composition he participated, had participated and warned about the illegalities involved in the land and disputed privatisation of the Usce building, which was sold at a competition where there was no commission, but was later appointed and sold to a company that in December, which absolutely did not participate in a competition that was held in June and July. So, one company was involved, and another company was contracted, and at the time my colleague was a member of the federal government who was alerted to this illegality. We can talk about Šecerana Kovacica, Šecerana Bac, Šecerani Pećinci, "Sartid" I already mentioned, we can talk about "Kongrap", we can talk about "B92", we can talk about the privatisation in which it was done, when it privatised, "Azotari" Pančevo, "Zorki", "Azotari" Shabac, "Luka Belgrade", "C Market", "C Savings", National Veterinary Institute, "Galenici", "Stavat", "Electrozat" Surdulica, "Technochemija", "Srbolek", "Yugormedia". The "Yugomedia" was sold to a person who was the founder at the time, that face was on Interpol's warrant. It seemed to me in 2002 in Zrenjanin, therefore, during the government's term of office whose prime minister was later also a colleague who spoke before me. "Serbolek", "Shinvoz", "Keramika Kanjiza", "Centrosrem", "Usus", etc., various affairs that rocked on privatisation. This privatisation established a wild predatory capitalism that has its winners in the transition of its losers. Some people were told fairy tales before that election, and they built their own castles, except for selling businesses, selling imaginations, illusions, fog. It wouldn't be wrong for me that they were selling fog. It's my fault that the people were constantly customers. So they lived like a fairy tale, the people lived like a bass, they flew in the Himalayas, they were chasing yachts. I didn't meet a worker who had a boat under Fruska Gore on the Danube, who had...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10886	Mr. Risticevic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10887	I'm talking about privatisation. I didn't meet the worker who took advantage of the privatisation, who flew to Fruska Gora, and had a boat on the Danube, but that's why I met many of the winners of the transition that had yachts, winters, flew on white-world resorts, climbed on amazing things. As people starved, they tightened the belt around all the empty stomachs. With regard to all these privatisations, I will continue, but I want to refer to the bill of public interest. I will certainly support it, especially with regard to energy, but I recommend the Minister of Energy and Mining, that we also have to take care of the production of electricity, about the restoration of capacity in Kolubara, that we also have to take care of electricity production, not just the transport from agriculture, because a lot of the so-called electricity can be produced through livestock. With this energy, we can process agricultural products made by peasants, and then we don't have to discuss who sold what after, but we're going to discuss most likely the future of who created what, those in front of us, other than sales, didn't participate in creation. I hope this government has more sense. Speaking of which, in the public interest, I would like it to be declared regionally for more municipalities and more regions, to declare public interest in raising industrial zones, to make it easier to reach investors because of land expropriation, because it is almost impossible to provide for a large investment industrial zone of 100 hectares, because it is a lot of small possessions that without public interest and expropriation cannot work. With that in mind, I'm going to name an industrial zone called Stublenica, which will soon be built, and I think we need to declare it a public interest, in order to carry out the expropriation and more necessary part of the land. This is about an industrial zone to be built by the Chinese at 120 hectares that will employ a significant number of people in the future, far more than there is a need for labour in Ub territory. So, he's gonna hire some environmental workers. With that in mind, the prime minister has also made some agreements, agreements in China. So, I would like that public interest to be declared on these industrial zones as well. As for all these privatisation laws, after this unprecedented grabbing, the question is what's left, we need to make sure we're doing something. When a farmer wants to eat some sweet fruit, he must first plant, not only a vineyard, but also a fruit, in order to eat delicious bread, we must sow the wheat and the problem of Serbia in the previous period was that they were all picking, shaking, which they all harvested, which they all ate, and no one was sowing and no one planted. I'll set an example for Croatia. Croatia arrested the former prime minister, Croatia arrested its capital mayor, arrested Prime Minister Sanader. I think our problem is that we didn't arrest the former prime minister, one, two, three.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10888	Mr. Risticevic, please come back...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10889	As far as privatisation is concerned, I'm done. We did not do this because those who were to be arrested were appointed by prosecutors during their term of office, reform and deformity of the judiciary, and in connection with this, Mayor Bandic was arrested, and with us these many "Bandics", "Bandici" and bandits were not arrested, and I am completely dissatisfied with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10890	Thank you. MP Zoran Zivkovic. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10891	Replica. I've been mentioned ten times as a previous speaker, and I have the right under Article 104 of Article 1 to correct...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10892	All right, Mr. Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10893	A few hundred deliberately spoken falsely and a few poorly interpreted facts are the reason for my replica, and let's just say what some of the lies are. First, the sugars were sold at a time when I was prime minister, no, they weren't. At the time, he was Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. That was a good privatisation. Anyone could apply for privatisation, each in Serbia had three euros. I'm surprised that, as some people present themselves, they didn't then draw not three euros, but three stamps, then they were brands yet, or three euros anyway, so they didn't buy those three sugars. That's where I think of those who are tied to the country, who know a lot. As for Sartida, it is true that the bankruptcy sale was at a time when I was president of the Serbian government. It was sold out of bankruptcy, meaning, without direct contact with the Government or the Privatisation Agency, but I am proud of that sale, because it was the only time from 1983 to today, so 30 years where Sartid worked, where Sartid was not a place to grow mushrooms or failed political personnel, but produced steel. Only from 2003 until two or three years ago when it was sold to the Serbian government for one dollar was the iron mill working, so it's a good example and I'm sorry that no one understood it. Generally, I have to admit that there was everything in the coalition that supported my government. There were 18 parties and there were various people, and rabbits and peasants, and someone who was a rabbit and a rabbit farmer, but that's not the topic for this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10894	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10895	I think my former colleague, with all due respect to a profession similar to mine, misunderstood me. I was talking about a period where he unequivocally confirmed that almost total social capital was sold by 2.7% billion euros. So that's the revenue that the Privatisation Agency made by 2012. The other revenues were from a direct contract he challenged. That income, I think, was another three billion, but it was direct contracts of the previous governments, so direct agreements, which he was condemning. At that time, 400 to 500 thousand workers were out of work. The tragedy is even bigger, because once you get them off the receiving side, you move them to the expense side. So they become a burden in a certain way. At the same time, the number of public sector workers increased to 781 thousand. So that's what's left. The country is in charge almost to the upper limit. The new authorities were only left to be in debt to pay interest and service obligations that occurred at a time when the country was enormously in debt, and nothing was being built, but, on the contrary, everything was being sold, jobs were lost and workers fell out of the business chain. So he unequivocally confirmed all my allegations that this was happening at the time I described it, from 2000 to 2012. So it's all ruined. We were free to sing "Sleep still, nano, everything fell apart". So these are the government's results, among other things, and the ones he ran. As far as I'm concerned, I don't know who was the basis for the replica. I never mentioned his last name. I mentioned some Bandics, Bandics, Bandics, and I'm not guilty of being recognized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10896	Thank you. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10897	It's very clear how the predecessor identified himself, so he answered the line, although there were two expressions. One was a bunny, the other was a peasant, but still. What is important, that is, to repeat what most of Serbia knows, a time in which I was honored to be a official in the Serbian government, the Prime Minister, which is unfortunately an accident from March 2003 to March 2004. At that time, by all parameters, Serbia was in a much better condition than it is now. Public debt was barely close to nine billion euros, and today it is over 22 billion. The euro was 62 dinars, and today it's 120 dinars. A hundred thousand people were more employed than today. Foreign investment was one billion and a half euros, and for this year it will hardly reach 150 million. At the time, Serbia was 71st in competition in the world, and today it is 101st. At the time, Serbia was returned to the Council of Europe and to many other international institutions, which, of course, will not happen anything similar this year or in recent years. I have nothing to do with, as Serbian citizens know, the governments that ruled this country until October 5th, which are the radical-SPS governments, who destroyed not only Serbia's economy, but also several tens of thousands of lives of Serbian citizens, nor am I responsible for anything that happened after March 2004, when various combinations of different camels ruled Serbia and it had nothing to do with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10898	First in line, MP Dr. Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10899	Dear fellow MPs, everyone has the right to see himself in politics as it suits him, but there are also citizens, there are witnesses. There is also that oath that we took when we became messengers, that we would speak the truth, and that we would fight for justice. I really don't think that some people on a political scene in Serbia would ever get a chance to be in a high position, in a high political position, that evil was not happening in Serbia, and evil happened the moment the Serbian prime minister was killed. So I'm asking you all to be very careful with what we're saying. None of us in his political programme or in his political action had the goal of falling into innocent life, any number that it was. If one who deals with politics in Serbia does not know what the circumstances have been since the introduction of a multi-party system in Serbia and what provocations have been directed towards Serbia, that they have indeed been exiled, exiled and refugees, that they are indeed members of our people, and he is Serbian, were really exposed to the persecutions that have resulted unfortunately and in the loss of life, but no one can attribute it to any political party's policy. I really ask my distinguished fellow MP that when he wishes so much to attach historical importance to Serbia's political scene, that he sits well, face the paper and ink or if he uses the computer to write those memoirs, but I do remain on the claim that he would never have come to the post of prime minister if evil had not happened in Serbia, and that was the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10900	Thank you. Right on line, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10901	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am proud of my peasant origin. By the way, I don't think that that rabbit recognized anything. I know what he means. Go to the D.A.'s office. I'm not gonna deal with your wife's business, but it doesn't matter, I know what you're thinking. You don't think I'm brave enough. It wasn't exactly brave to take 525 thousand euros and be a winemaker for three years. It was not fair to have a contract with the people about restitution, and then enter the plot and plant the vineyard, allegedly plant it, in a plot that was taken from the Jaksic family in 1946 and never returned to them. Now, given that you have resold the company, the state of Serbia must pay 500 000 euros, to mark the family's legal followers. It wasn't brave to be co-owner with the tycoon winery. It wasn't brave to be co-owner with the Virgin Islands firm. It was not brave to invoice the fruit material of Vinarija Zivkovic to a self-owned company called "Empresa". It wasn't brave to avoid military service. Much was not brave, but I will not say that you will recognize yourself in the sentence “the rabbit. ” As for the late Zoran Djindjic, your policy is not like his. And a lion can train a mouse, but a mouse will always be just a mouse.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10902	Thank you. Right on line, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10903	Replica is a respected colleague, Diana Vukomanovic. With a colleague who spoke afterwards, I really think I have a language barrier and a cultural barrier and every other one. Of course, none of that is true, but only one thing about it, and that's about not serving a military term. I'm asking you to ask the Secretary of Defense. It's in the Army archives. I wouldn't recommend to anyone if it wasn't for the military deadline, but it's a completely different topic, and it's a thing that happened 31 years ago, and every normal person knows why it happened and how it happened. I repeat, I don't want anyone to be released from military service that way. As for Mrs. Vukomanovic, I do not know which hill or mountain she spent in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10904	Please, Mr. Zivkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10905	As a climber or as a nature lover, how do I know how? But if someone lived in civilization, even if it was Serbia in the 1990s, it was clear to him that it was the programme goal of the party then led by Slobodan Milosevic. You don't have to take it as your legacy. You've been fenced more than once since that period. I respect your upbuilding and I think it's good for both you and the political scene of Serbia and Serbia's future, but don't defend a mass murderer, who, I hope, is one serious court case, also responsible for the murder of Dr. Zoran Djindjic, he or his clan.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10906	I think you've passed right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10907	So let you know how history will deal with my childhood, that's completely irrelevant. I think more important things are at stake.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10908	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10909	The Honorable Chairman, today who knows which way to a flagrant, the most cruel possible way to break the Rules of Procedure. I'm advertising an article. 104 and 106. You allow the speakers without warning, the words spoken by the previous speaker are, as far as I can tell, the minimum penalty, which takes place in the warning, not in the warning, but in the warning. You didn't even do it, given the words that were said here, I think it was the least you should have done. The Dignity of the Assembly has been injured here several times today. Who is a war criminal, who is not, who bowed to whom, and who is not, cannot be a dictionary of this House, nor should he be a dictionary of this Parliament. The Rules of Procedure are often used here, as the previous speaker did. Instead of the replicas, they took offense. Why is that tolerated? Members of the SPS never in this, nor in the previous session, have reached out to such a dictionary, and they will not be in the future, but that is why we are asking only categorically for the Rules of Procedure to be respected, now the President, and before that you, Mr Arsic, ask that, in accordance with Article 27 and all other provisions of the Rules of Procedure, lead this Assembly in order for the citizens of this Assembly to experience an authoritative legislative body. So what we represent in front of the citizens as we are, I don't want us to be who the previous speaker was, but as we are, so is our Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10910	Thank you. I do not believe that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, that he did not harm the Parliament's reputation as chairman, but MPs, but that is a great lack of this Rules of Procedure, because what remains as the chairman? Only that as soon as he hears a word he shuts down, erases or punishes. We're not going into controversy. You said we'd start leading authoritatively. Then that goes for everything, then don't lead the controversy with the chairman. I will only give the word Diana Vukomanovic and close the circle of replicas, because what has been said over the last half hour has not been and has no contact with the points of the agenda, not a single, not a past party, not a mere event in our country. Don't let me read the agenda. I can't hear a scream. Since I led this House, my hearing has been a little weakened. You have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10911	Respecting the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will really refrain from exhibiting where my childhood was when I was about a year old. I'm not important, I'm one of many. It is important where we were all together, where Serbia was, where the people of Serbia were, where the citizens and those who were open-handed welcomed those who were much worse than we were then. I will really refrain from this kind of policy that is based not on eloquence, but on personal insolence. I will only allow myself to say that none of us know what Prime Minister Djindjic meant in the last moments of his life and none of us can declare themselves an interpreter of the will, because the late Prime Minister Djindjic did not leave a political will. But I dare say that he was able to write his political will for life, my distinguished counterpart Zivkovic would certainly not have been the prime minister of Serbia and his successor.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10912	Out of respect for the murdered prime minister and his family, we're not gonna keep talking about this. I'm in no condition to listen to such discussions. Do not give Gordani Komic a word, so go ahead and do it by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10913	I signed up, and I can't give it to Mrs. Comic, I can't give it to the Rules of Procedure, because I'm the one who answered the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10914	Don't yell.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10915	You just threatened the president with a finger. This is how you spoke to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10916	You won't challenge me. At least I don't know how to put my finger on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10917	You were in the camera. So, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 27, 106 and 107, chairing before you, formally, I must stress that he formally injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10918	He can't, you have to go after his injury right away, and you let Dijana Vukomanovic go by, and then you answered. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10919	Constantly, until this moment, the Rules of Procedure has been violated, given that the chairman, again I must stress formally, violated the Rules of Procedure only because he tried to be tolerated, only because MPs from his MP group are shouting and threatening him unless he gives them his word and only because this session looks like this and just because the MPs of the ruling parties, above all SNS, are not allowing the story of reality, but are happy to return to the 1990s, the two-thousands, do not want to talk about 2014, about the fact that Serbia has been living the worst in the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10920	Is that a violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10921	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10922	Should we vote? You yourself said that nothing broke Veroljub Arsic, and there is no formal and informal, either he hurt the Rules of Procedure or he did not. Are we going to vote on a formal or informal breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Janko Veselinović, from the city: No. I thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10923	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108. Someone who starts speaking and raises his index finger and directs him to the speaker of parliament or to one of his colleagues, we know when he raises up and when he waves his finger that it is usually the accompanying appearance of threats, and then he calls for a breach of the Rules of Procedure by insisting on the truth, is at least a good reason for warning, that this Parliament is not polluting the stables and stables, as we just heard from Mr Stefanovic or that finger addressed to the National Assembly President, and thus also to the National Assembly, according to the highest legislative body in this country. I'll only agree to one thing with the previous speaker. I agree that he and the representatives of the former regime live worse, because there is no car, no boast, no privatisation, no privilege, no security, no all the things they're used to for years of irresponsible government. But I don't care about the former regime. It is important that Serbian citizens live more dignity and better. It's important that that unemployment rate with 26%, as far as we got in the amannet of the former regime, is 20.3% now, and that the former regime lives worse, and it should, they deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10924	Thank you. Article 108. - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly. I'm really doing my best. I didn't take it, at least not seriously waving the finger of MP Janko Veseninovic. You're not asking to vote? We're really far away, so I couldn't react to finger-waving? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I do not ask to be voted.) ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic, a regularly reported MP to discuss the points of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10925	For Minister Sertic, there will be two good news. The first is that I will vote in favour of the investment fund, because the law on the content is done thoroughly, missing it in our regulation, is in line with certain chapters negotiated with the EU and necessary. For all proud of their own ignorance, and that was here, to hear in the firmness of attitudes shared by proud because they read nothing, the investment fund has very little to do with investments, but in the creative interpretation of the Rules of Procedure to talk about investments, broadly everyone's field, dirt is always easy to recognize. The other good news is that I'm pleased that you're one of the ministers, who regardless of the usual practice of reading the arguments, at least you read the best of everyone else and I believe with understanding. As part of that good news, it's just my questions. The first remark I know will look like a word thrown into the wind, but it's my conscience to say it anyway. A campaign in the media, a campaign here in the Assembly, a campaign called ideological, about how privatization is an evil is a very big obstacle to your work, a very big obstacle. The routine we're used to spitin' on privatization is a very big obstacle to your work. You can hardly change something like a minister there. It produces political passion and ignorance that people are proud of, but if we don't understand how important privatisation is, we won't be able to measure realistically how difficult the process is. As Minister, you are awaiting a very difficult phase in privatisation. That's why I want to say in a brief introduction where we get the Privatisation Agency Act, because I'm going to ask you a question about it. I'm not talking about actions, because I think we know that this fund only makes sense when privatisation is over in the public sector, but it can be upside down like this, we can assume how much capital there will be, so let's do it. So when the privatisation of the public sector is completed, then we'll be able to really talk about free action. I understand the orientation of the legislator in one direction and another, closed, open. It's not particularly important for your job this year. What's important is that this Privatisation Agency Act is the same as the Privatisation Act, the Labour Act, that's more of the laws that the Working Group, funded by the World Bank, did in 2011. The aim of all these laws and the task of the working group, composed of domestic and foreign experts and advice-supported, USID money and the US Chamber of Commerce, was to address the problem that has been in the Serbian budget since December 2007 with 162 enterprises in restructuring and, firstly, 55, and then almost 90,000 employees, who are fictitiously employed, and their salaries for jobs that do not exist from Serbia's budget. What I thought about it in 2007 or in the years when the deadlines were extended, it doesn't matter now. It's important that we understand that this is a common problem. That's where I return to my remarks. If you do nothing to create a perception of bad privatisation, the problem will be even bigger for you to solve it within the time limit, as these laws say. What happened in the meantime with the texts of all the laws that the World Bank's working group did is that they are the will of the ruling majority, I'm not going to say by whose other will, the individual provisions of the once-coordinated change. It's not good and it's seen in this Privatisation Agency Act. I'll illustrate to you how unwell it is. Two words from one member of the Notary Act have been cast out. Today we see the consequences. That's why I'm telling you about the distinct pride of the ignorance that is very public, but you have to be minimal, both in the sector, and in what you do. Two words. The amendment and the will of the ruling majority have been expelled from one member of the Notary Act and therefore we have an increasingly difficult situation, I hope, however resolutely, with an end to the work of lawyers, with their demands, with the actions of the Minister of Justice. My question is, because of the lack of words in the Privatisation Agency Act, who does surveillance? Please share with me your comment or tell me that I will get the answer later, but I ask you to spare us all the reading of the arguments, because surveillance of the Privatisation Agency, given the powers, given the existence of a bankruptcy centre within the Privatisation Agency, given everything given as an authorisation, there is no such surveillance. My question to you is that for some year, for whatever reason, there was no statement that there were only oral orders on the Privatisation Agency to make something happen. I am absolutely certain that you and I care about the rule of law and the best possible results of this Privatisation Act, which I have not voted for, which is missing, and the Privatisation Agency should give to abolishing salaries for jobs that do not exist for at least 60,000 people from the company in restructuring. We will know that as early as November 1st, when the 2015 budget must enter the Assembly, and that programme budget. It's only nine days from now. If I see a position for the company in restructuring, it doesn't matter what you answer here. Although I don't see whether the Agency is an indirect budget user, as seen in the vault, which are revenues, I'm not against the Agency taking a commission from privatisation. It should be so, but as it is set up, you will get very untransparently and without defined body supervision, where the question is whether it works under this law or by the Law on Public Agencyes or by oral order. Such stages are inevitable in changing countries. I think it's our common interest to keep these phases as short as possible. My questions are which the Agency's laws and who, take one case as an example, really have control over the Agency's work? The second issue concerns Minister Antic and the proposal for a law on public interest. The minister said several things about the public interest being the shortened administrative procedure for parcels on which power lines will be built. What's a shortened procedure means no witnesses, no skills, no checks, no short-term procedures. The big question is whether there is a basis for introducing a shortened administrative procedure in this law. When we call on to consider whether it is fully in line with the Constitution, we are not doing this to stop the development of energy policy or the European Energy Community in the region, but because it is better to prevent damage than to see the damage growing. The second thing Minister Antic said was that this plan, which should be filled with public interest in 400 kilowatt power lines, should follow the South Stream. That's what the minister would have to explain, at least to people who know what South Stream is and what energy is, and such people have quite a number in this room for two reasons. So, what's the connection to the expropriation in South Stream, I think he meant the highway, but well, let's make it South Stream, and build a 400-pound power line? Why does it matter? Because I wish the minister were here to tell me how many power lines it is? Is it 150, is it 200, 350? How many power lines do we have to know how many parcels if you take the average from the plot? You can't control what you can't measure or change what you can't measure. We have also listened to the governments that we supported, and from the governments where we were the opposition - mothers we, the analysis and here endlessly repeated - mothers we, everything will be great. What gives the guarantee that it'll be great when we check the data. So, for Minister Antić, the question is very simple, since the elaborate is gone and since JP EMS really is a monopoly, there is a full monopoly, and an explanation that it is because of alternative types of energy, it also says that it is the result of the contract between us and Italy, and that the transfer of energy is something that we are interested in and as a profit. So I'm wondering how many power lines are there? Then how much is the resulting plot? Why is the different value of the plot on which the pillar is built and the plot above which the waters go, because it is important? Because I don't want to think there's no environmental impact analysis in the lab, I won't even think there's gonna be cases, like in Vinci when people have been fighting for months so there won't be a long-distance pillar in the school's yard. It doesn't matter who's right anymore, whether or not that power pole should be or shouldn't be, it's important that the people in Vinci don't have someone else who's going to have a dialogue on harmfulness or what they're convinced is harmful when it comes to power lines. The Investment Funds Act Yes, the Agency Act No, the Free Action Act, of course, v, and I think the public interest will also have my vote against if Minister Antic cannot give me adequate clear, accurate, verifiable and evidenceable answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10926	Thank you. I didn't understand, Vera Paunovic and Zoran Babic also reported. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. ) Mrs. Paunovic, just wait until I give you my word right now, Zoran Babic asked for a replica. I'll give you my word right now, just to listen to my colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10927	It is irresponsible and very dangerous to spread fear, to spread panic, where panic and space for panic and fear are gone. I'm going to be an esteemed colleague, Komic, who, I'm sure, like everyone else, has received a response from JP of the "Electro Network of Serbia" regarding the case of Vince, if she didn't get it, if she didn't have time to read it, I'd be happy to give the document away. In fact, it's completely incorrect that the power line, which is verifiable, is that the power line passes through the primary school and kindergarten. Since these facilities are located outside the planned corridor of the power lines, while through the part of illegally built facilities the power lines are being crossed, which is why the project takes appropriate measures, increased heights of pillars and conductors and ensures complete safety of the environment with adequate technical solutions. What do we do with that? What about the solution given to the consent of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning to the studio, evaluation and impact on the environment of the 400 power line project regarding this section of Vince? This solution was given on 31.12. 2010 It was given by the government as well as by the project and license, by the government supported by Mrs. Komic and the feasibility study, i.e. the consent to the environmental impact assessment and there are no schools and kindergartens and kindergartens under the power lines, and where illegal objects are increased pillars and all possible protection has been done.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10928	Thanks, it's been a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10929	Is it irregular and irresponsible to use a pay phone to spread panic and fear of ignorance?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10930	Thank you. You have the right to a replica. You have the right to an injury. (Gordana Comić, from town: Replica. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10931	Thank you. I didn't think I'd be allowed a replica, which is why I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If it's a situation that I can replicate, then it's like this. Madam President of the Assembly, when and if it happened that MP Zoran Babic was elected Prime Minister, or Minister for Environment and Agriculture Protection, or anything as a member of the government, I will welcome the election. Until then, I am very glad that he is a Messenger of the people, a messenger of the people. The replica serves here, as an obvious example, to show what rules are good in the rule of law. The apostle asks, and the government suits him. He's not fit by another MP with an answer that's nothing to do with a question. I'm glad my fellow MP's career is on the rise. I understand him completely. It's not easy. But I would pray that on this case we remember that we are all MPs first. That would mean a lot to determine the dialogue in Serbia. It would be a great help to every minister, whether we are the opposition or the ruling majority, and it would be a great help to really show what this congregation needs to be, and that is to listen to each other when we talk and talk about the subject. My theme was a question. The various governments I supported and I was the opposition were wrong. If he can stop the theory of continuous mistakes, repeated and others as his own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10932	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10933	I'm just going to give a brief reply to MP Comic. As for the cappella you were talking about, the privatization that's bad in public, I think it's primarily about privatizations that ended badly for the workers. Anyway, it's a fact that happens and it happens, not just with us, it happens in the environment and everywhere there are problems. Unfortunately, we have a large number of companies with a serious number of workers left and some strange things have happened that are probably more likely to be stories for the security authorities and other judicial processes than here. I agree with you that the privatisation process is extremely important for our country and that this is why the Government decided in the previous law to end it by next year, because it is the interest of all of us. A large number of companies that we have, of these 500, we've talked about, the question is whether they have a market and whether they can continue to live. We will do everything to try to make a program for every company, but it's a real picture that those companies that don't have that option won't survive, and we have to stop this process one moment and stop to deal with that economy, real and serious. To come and do this right, your surveillance issue is one of the most important and for me, as minister in this process, because I am also legally and politically responsible for the process that will be in the next period, and we have two laws to resolve. In the Law on Privatisation, article 84 says – supervision of the application of the provisions of this law and the regulations adopted under it, the Ministry of Business Affairs performs and the Government exercises control over the ministry's conduct in the application of the provisions of this law. There are a few more sentences to go on. Also, the Law on the Privatisation Agency in Article 18 states that the Agency's work is being supervised by the Ministry of Privatisation Affairs and also has an explanation in all this. I agree with some MPs who have made objections to the story whether it is legally possible to prevent any abuse and I do not think there is a legal act that can fully implement it. That's why there is a personal responsibility, because all of us working on this job have to give our maximum to make the processes transparent, clear and responsible, especially in the interests of our fellow citizens, because we all live here, and our children, and our parents, and our friends, and families live in the country and I am confident that everyone today who does really want the best for their country and that we will do everything to bring these processes to an end in a very clear and best way at a time, even though it is a situation, and I will say it again, I have said it several times, extremely difficult and complicated, and it would be good for us as a country that we managed to do this over a period of five or more years ago, but we are in 2014 and now we are just left to deal with it in the best possible way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10934	I thank the minister. National MP Zoran Babic replica Gordani Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10935	Thank you, Madam President. I'll thank Mrs. Comic for following my career. It's not my career that matters. The effects of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are important, which they experience in parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it is important how quickly we will go through European integration, reducing public debt, one decent, normal life for our citizens, and my career or every individual is really irrelevant. However, it is strange to think of democracy when one party can ask any question it wants, that it spreads quite a bit of panic and fear, and that it has nothing to do with the topic of the agenda, and that I, as a MP in the National Assembly, cannot use the response of the government that has arrived to all MPs. This is the government's response, Mrs. Komic, and in this response, the government says - that the power line, which you are so concerned about, which will cause chaos in Vinca, has been done according to the Project Documentation Act of 2010 of the Urban Conditions of the General Plan of the City of Belgrade, a decision on the determination of urban plans which, in general or in action, are not contrary to the Law on Planning and Construction, based on a report by the Republic of Revised Commission in 2008, a solution which has established the public interest of 2009, a resolution on the construction of the "Dalevoda" case issued by the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning in 2009. The only confirmation is the application of papers and the beginning of work from 2014. What is the responsibility of this government, then, because it has done according to all conditions and because "Electro Network of Serbia" as an investor of these works is trying and working...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10936	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10937	... by the standards that are such that they do not endanger the environment, that they do not endanger the citizens and you have received it, Mrs. Komic, but you do not want to see, and now you want to shut your mouth to all of us who are proving such things.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10938	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10939	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable members of the Government, we have before us several economic laws with amendments and additions, and I will discuss the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds Act. This law treats an area of economic life that has been in our midst for a long time, which is financial and stock trade, i.e. the securities market of value. Although we have had strong traditions in some distant past, our positive legislation is not being built in this area until the past 20 years. If this is added to the continued economic crisis and non-poverty, which lasts for a long time, and which certainly do not favour intensifying activities on the market of securities of value, then we should not be surprised that our legislation in this area is still undeveloped and that it needs certain periodic changes and additions of concrete legal solutions, which we are now doing with this bill. This time, the proposed solutions will not bring any major conceptual changes to the existing law, which is also said in reason – that it is set on solid grounds. The majority of the proposed changes and additions are of a termological nature and are a alignment with other legal solutions in this area. Yet in these changes and additions, we have a few significant changes. The first of them refers to Article 7 of the existing law, and refers to a reduction in the company's share capital from 200 to 125,000 euros. Since, in regulated countries, all companies that claim to deal with these activities must meet the strict conditions laid down by law, especially those which are faithful to initial and compulsory capital, in order to ensure their clients at first sight, this provision could not be justified. However, we must bear in mind and extend the social and economic context, and it is unfortunately such that real indicators talk about the decline of all types of business and financial activities, including the fact that the number of authorised participants and the volume of trade is reduced year by year, which is evidenced by the fact that the number of companies involved in these activities has fallen from 15 to all four and that it is necessary that even these four societies are preserved. Therefore, the change in the censorship is an attempt to keep this market at a certain level and thus ensure wider financial stability. On the other hand, the protection of clients is secured by amended and more rigorous investment restrictions rules that can be made by the investment fund, so that loans to third parties or money can not be made to be invested in the purchase of precious metals, as well as the provision that the work permit is withdrawn if it is not used for more than a year. The solution so far has been two years. I think it is a good solution, which for the period of submission of the report is extended from three months to six months, given that these reports must be very detailed and concise, which will also facilitate and speed up the work of the funds because they will have fewer administrative jobs, but on the other hand, it is prescribed by Article 22 that these reports must have more elements than previously. So interested persons will have more indicators of fund operations, and according to this they will be able to have a more objective picture of a specific economic entity, a fund. Dear fellow MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group believes that amendments and additions to the Investment Funds Act have been proposed to make their work easier, raises the level of trade in securities from value, thereby reviving the country's financial sector and economic stability, and will give its support to this law in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10940	The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10941	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Minister Sertic, the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, today we are taking part in a joint review of four draft laws that defend the two ministers, one of whom is not here that we can conduct a dialogue with him on the content of the bill that he should defend here, and you, Mr Sertic, should defend other drafts of the law, very poorly participate in the dialogue here. I remember very well when Mr. Dacic defended you as a minister's candidate in the Assembly. He defended you by his admission of silence because he didn't know much about matter. I'm just saying that wasn't a sign to you that when you show up as a minister who's been elected here to defend some bill of law that you should keep your mouth shut, that is, defend these proposals with silence. Mr. Sertic, I don't know what's going on with the SNS MPs, the Honorable President, they're very restless. May I continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10942	Yeah, right. The silence is approval.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10943	So, just to tell Mr Sertic that part of the democratic custom, I think, is part of the democratic practice that we are conducting dialogue in the Serbian Parliament. This means that when a MP asks a question or has a dilemma, it is expected that a minister who defends the bill is there, and e.g. Mr. Antic is not here either, said his court on the dilemma or offered an answer to the question. Then we can talk, I mean, in a good and examples way. We will vote against these draft laws and since it is a joint principled search, I will focus on only one bill because we do not have much time to discuss. We have submitted, Zoran Zivkovic has already said, 17 amendments to 19 members, as many amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privatisation Agency. I'd like to offer two arguments that make it my opinion that this belief that we should vote for, for example. against this bill is correct. So I have arguments based on which I came up with that attitude. First argument, I'd like to explain to you here, the MPs of the Progressive Party are due to something impatient, respected presidents, they keep getting me here. You can't hear it now, and you can't hear what anyone's saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10944	Ambassador, let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10945	I agree. So, Mr Sertic, in the part concerning the reason for the adoption of the law on the amendment law and the additions to the Law on the Privatisation Agency, it is stated that this is the basic reason for the submission of this bill and, of course, by your court, it is your feeling that this law is being passed. You have stated here that the basic reason for harmonising the content of the existing Privatisation Agency Act is with the provisions of the new Privatisation Act. Dear Mr Sertić, we discussed in this assembly here, in this session on July 30th the content of the proposal for a new Law on Privatisation. You weren't a minister back then. The minister was Mr. Vujovic, but there was a replacement, you may not have noticed, but I must remind you that one of the reasons why we cannot vote for this proposal for a law on the Privatisation Agency is the adoption of an unnecessary new Privatisation Act. We were against that bill at the time. We have submitted as many amendments, Mr. Sertic, as the bill had members. Here and we have been asleep and now you, after some time, knowingly, Minister Vujovic even admitted at some point that we are right, in one part, despite this, you are now asking us to adapt to one unnecessary and bad privatisation law that we discussed on July 30th, which was adopted several days later, so early August. That's one argument that makes me the next logic, since I want to be consistent in my views, in performances here in the National Assembly, I have to tell you here, and as for not adopting or our position that this bill should not be passed. I've only got a dozen seconds left now...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10946	Sign up, I don't know what happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10947	The Honorable President, the National Assembly, is the only one blocking the system when we discuss it. Can you explain to me how this is possible, dear Mrs. Gojkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10948	I will, after the session, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10949	No, please now. This is part of our session.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10950	Thank you. It's been 15 seconds and the system's decommissioning. It's been five minutes and 22 seconds. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: SNS MPs were the first to distract me, and now the system is not working... Come to me after the cabinet session and we'll talk. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic. The minister wants to answer. I apologize to Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10951	Dear Members, I would very much like to answer most of the questions if there were more questions here about the law itself. Unfortunately, we were more involved and listened to other topics than specific things. Evidence of this is also the number of amendments submitted today during the day. 23 amendments have been submitted to the Law amending the Law on the Privatisation Agency. Of which 17 of yours and of yours is only one correct because you are in all the reasons, in fact “copy-paiste”, the Law on Privatization and not the Law on the Agency for Privatisation. So I don't know what should be the subject of my answer. Professional services will certainly give their answer. We'll make appropriate decisions tomorrow at the government. I would just like to inform all MPs that we have accepted in the professional services, so tomorrow the government will give its final answer, every proposal that has been meaningful and which has gone towards improving the quality of these amendments, but on the greatest part of the amendment that your MP group has submitted we have not been able to speak of, because they are legally incorrect.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10952	Tomorrow we'll talk about the amendments, i.e. The day after tomorrow. The word has Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic wants me to assume that he explains about the "kopi-paiste", probably.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10953	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored President Gojkovic, Honored Minister Sertic, Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, I would like to say two things here for this answer. One thing, we've submitted the correct amendments. If you have carefully listened to this first argument which is why we cannot vote for this bill, and how much in the meantime you have read our arguments for all 17 amendments, then it is clear that we are actually responding to what you have written in an explanation for the adoption of this bill, and you have written that you want to align the content of the Privatisation Agency Act with the new Privatisation Act. We in all 17 amendments are exactly that, Mr. Sertic, and we have announced that we cannot accept it as an argument, that we will vote against it. I think if you read those amendments carefully now, that's exactly what it says. Another thing, I think I can tell you here right now about this one dialogue that is now in order to lead on the bill now, is another argument that we can't vote for this bill. For example, Mr Sertic, I believe that privatisation, contained in the Privatisation Act, contained in the Privatisation Agency Act, must have provided something as a basic assumption. And what needs to be provided is legal certainty. So, in our country, with the operation of all the institutions in our political system, we need to have legal certainty, and the Serbian government, and here you are today performing on behalf of the Serbian Government, and I can now give you examples of my actions, destroying this very legal security as a fundamental assumption of good privatisation and the work of the Privatisation Agency. That would be another argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10954	We'll talk about the amendments the day after tomorrow when we get the government's answers to the amendments. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10955	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I think it's time to take a little session and take serious things seriously. The only thing you guys are tearing down here, Mr. Sertice, is self-government. And that's good. It's the only real thing that crashes here because this law simply makes it impossible for someone from some of his hangings, I don't know, not to sell shares, to stop actually selling businesses that have already failed. It's simple, then it allows the agency to give its vote. It's just that this sort of thing is being erased forever, and that's something I really support. Otherwise, preparing for this session, I read very seriously, as you can see, the many strategies that someone had previously made, among other things, a certain Action Plan for a better life for citizens in the period from 2008 to 2011. Well, I also read a good part of the strategy proposed by the DS by 2020, which was presented to citizens in March 2010. Since we're stuck here all the time, we're doing something marketing. You know, in these strategies, among other things, the following is said, when we talk about privatisation, that the privatisation process will end and that we will have an efficient bankruptcy process, that is one print. Then he says, work for everyone, priority was employment, partnership between the state, the education system, the private sector, etc. All that was presented to us at the time was a dead letter left on paper, and in practice we had a situation so that people were left out of work, that 200 thousand people and something was out of work, that certain people who were close to that particular party were getting rich, and I'm going to ask you something now, Mr Sertic. Since you are given quite a lot of authority here as a minister, i.e. the Ministry of Economy, which I think is good, never again allow the situation that some consulting house can give its people to work at the Privatisation Agency, while it advises that same agency to privatise an enterprise. That crime, that robbery, that insolence they've been conducting here, the consulting houses are for prison. Someone would really have to go to jail for that. Unfortunately, this was legalized here, and so we had allegedly successful consulting houses, from the "Economic Institute", the "Dilloyta", the KPMG, especially Ces Mekona, etc., whose people essentially worked in the same agency and thus advised us how to sell some companies. I'm asking you never to let that happen again, to strictly sanction it, and to end it once and for all. With this in mind, it's a good thing that according to the law, regarding amendments and additions to the Law on the Privatisation Agency, the Agency no longer has the discretionary right to launch privatisation. I totally support something like that. Now they can only propose to you, as far as I understand it, a model and they can propose to go somewhere in privatization, and it's up to you, or the Ministry to decide whether to accept it or not. It's a good control system. Because we used to have a situation where the Agency just came in and discreetly sold. They used to sell very successful companies, and they left this to us, and they put it into restructuring these 500 and something that we're struggling with today, and we don't know what we're going to do with them. You can pretend to be extremely successful when you sell successful companies. That anyone can do, it's just a question – why didn't you try to encourage the economy then? Now, as we can see, everyone's pushing for some subsidisation. Why, then, are you not those companies, which may have certainly been successful, helped, and not that what was worth, sold? Like, we had a cement situation. Someone sold all three of our cements, which were very successful, at the cost of how much the Government of Mirko Marjanovic has arranged for one. Then they said, "Ow, that's a success." I'm sorry, anyone can do that. So this is really something to support. Otherwise, I feel bad for not being introduced, but it is already about the Privatisation Act, to ban companies that open their representations on these exotic islands and these "of short" zones so that they can privatise our businesses. I'd really support it with all my heart, since we've had a really amazing situation so far, that you can't catch where some company actually started, and it's bought our company here. It is very commendable, about the changes and additions of the Investment Funds Act, which is now being created by competition, especially by creating competition with business banks that obviously had a monopoly in everything here and were masters and privatisations and loans and everything. I think it's going to be one of these laws, where now, in fact, these companies running investment funds are going to be a good competitor to banks. There's something that's really positive. As far as privatisation itself is concerned, so that anyone from the SNS is accusing the former regime of any kind of privatisation robbery, so we don't have to say anything, Verica Baraq said through her Anti-Corruption Council, and she said the European Commission, which even ordered us to investigate those 24 privatisations. It's some research that's been done, and we can see that some procedures are being conducted. Therefore, no one here has to say anything, just enough to call on the European Commission's report and see what actually happened back then. I must point out that it's good here that even an ordinary man who has shares can now sell them, which can trade them and which is not limited to a variety of bureaucratic conditions and which can even outside the market of securities of value to offer his actions. I think it's something that's good and that can speed up, after all, privatisation, especially those companies that are completely down. The fact that you're now caught up in this business of being a Minister of Industry, that's a little brave and crazy. Because to privatise companies that are completely ruined and who don't want anyone to buy now, and which have been thoroughly robbed, is something that is really, really hard. I believe you will succeed, though, I must admit, I'm not sure you can do all these 500 and something. Some will have to shut down, and I'm totally convinced of that. You need to be realistic and tell it to the citizens. They're gone, they're no longer profitable, and they should be told to the citizens. It's just that it's something that's been given to you like hot chestnuts and you have to do it now, and it's just impossible to do something like that. This is where the Agency gets the opportunity to launch the liquidation and propose bankruptcy. That's good, because you just have to speed something up. We can't stand there anymore. If the company really isn't profitable, if it really chokes the economy itself, if it can't, it's pointless to throw more into the bottomless well, it's better to liquidate the company and try something new. That's something I'd really support. Also, I would support that now the Agency can sell the entire company's assets. So far, all she could do is move. Now he'll be able to sell moving assets, which is really something to be commended for. I'm glad that in some way, right through that item we mentioned at the beginning, which is that you actually control privatisation, that the state somehow returns control of that process. It may be too late, we may have thought of something like this too late to bring, but better ever than never, than to keep some robbery in this society going on. All in all, this is a law that we'd all have to support if we truly loved this country. I admit that some things I suppose and have been extorted by the reality that is currently on the ground, but, you know, if someone's been struggling for a year and a few days and trying, say, to solve the problem and the Ironworks and the FAP and all these companies that are somehow led to the brink of destruction, I think this is something that can only speed up or sell them or simply solve that problem. With that in mind, anyone who truly loves this country will vote for something like this. I believe and I am convinced that all SNS MPs will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10956	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10957	The President-in-Office, president of parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, today we have a debate on four laws and I am beginning to express dissatisfaction over the re-procedure and the laws that are under emergency procedure in parliament. So there was not enough time to intervene effectively, and with regard to the making of amendments and good solutions. I suppose the opposition would have something to say about these laws. In the short run, we managed to do something with good intentions. I think it is important at the beginning to mention, before I move to concrete laws, what did my colleague, Mrs Gordana Komic, say, in what atmosphere are we talking about these laws? First of all, I'm thinking of a draft law on the Privatisation Agency, because privatisation is a subject. It seems to me that today we talked more about privatisation and the history of privatisation than about the proposal for a law on the Privatisation Agency, including the other three laws. I think it's important to say exactly something in favour of the general atmosphere in this room, which is that we know ourselves, arguing for European values, and reading the European Commission's reports, that the biggest objections in this privatisation process were for the period 2004-2007 and the privatisations that the government then conducted in the DSS coalition, G17 plus, with the minority support of the SAA. The Democratic Party participated in the governments from 2000 to 2003. Later, different coalitions carried out the privatisation process to a lesser extent, but the largest privatisations were carried out there sometime by 2008. I know that many individuals from this first government of the DSS and the G17 plus participated in this process and are now sitting in the benches of the ruling majority. I would not speak of names, but the president himself of the Committee on Economy, colleagues from the SPS who were in the coalition with the DS in 2008, would now be in the coalition with you, colleagues from the Privatisation Agency, professional people who have been sitting there since 2007, and all those people have participated in the process. But what's general is that no one accepts any responsibility on this side at any time and people sitting in congregation benches. Whether you directly participate in any privatisation process, whether you participate personally in the process or not, but I think it's important that we talk first of all about the law. Since there isn't much time, I'd like to make an argument on one occasion, which is why we're going to be against this proposal for a law on the Privatisation Agency. The key change is in a member who says that all procedures are carried out by the Agency which is as such and as most competent for these procedures. I agree with that, and I think that's where the most professional people are sitting who should do it that way. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, does the sale of public enterprises' capital also involve a prior process of debate on the integrity of the capital of high value? We expect privatisation and "Serbigas", we expect privatisation and "Electro Networks of Serbia", large infrastructure projects. In the prime minister's exposure, we just heard an announcement about the privatisation of the biggest public enterprises, and knowing what economic situation we are at at the moment when the gross social product fell to about 33 billion euros, which is due to the decline itself, which is because of the change in course, that the public debt is around 22 billion euros, that the principal for this debt is coming in 2018, it is precisely this important question of the integrity of privatisation and the way and serious issues will grow in Serbia's economy? Will we go only with this solution – privatising everything Serbia has, or will we strengthen the public sector, because I think an unnecessarily hostile relationship is being created in relation to the public sector and the real sector? I think that raising and strengthening the public sector can only cause growth and the real sector. I think it's important to think about how to generate income in that sense, just by wanting to strengthen that public sector. This procedure cannot be implemented in an efficient manner unless the property relations are completed. We have been witnessing in this assembly that we have postponed the deadline for the application of the Public Property Act, and without full implementation of this public property law is not possible, nor should we implement the privatisation of any public system. My knowledge is that privatisation and Resavice were started, correct me if I was wrong, that the privatisation of the JP Book Office was started, with a question and knowledge and a assumption that the registration of property had not just been completed. I think it's extremely bad, if it's really true. The proposal is not to initiate any privatisation process without established ownership relations. So much for the Privatisation Agency Act. We will in the day when amendments are discussed where we have tabled some technical amendments that will improve, and I am convinced of this law. I also want to say something about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Right to Free Action and the Money Compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process. It is essentially a matter of harmonising with the current situation with regard to broken contracts, and that is clear. I would like to comment on Article 17, which says – the founder of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivreda Srbija" is obliged to ensure that this company changes its legal form and demonstrates its basic capital in actions of a certain nominal value based on the adjusted book value of capital by 31 December 2016. So, the concept of corrected book value, with the question of what is a realistic assessment? The adjusted book value is essentially reduced for liabilities when an estimate of capital is made, primarily for such a large and significant system as "Electro-price of Serbia". The question opens and assumptions that this value may be estimated at four billion euros, or possibly 10 billion euros, as we have heard here and comments from some MPs in the government, that the value of this public system of Serbia will grow with new investments and with the realisation of such important projects? I would not say much about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Investment Funds Act, but I would point out very importantly that the full controversy carries this proposal for a law on the determination of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation and procurement of documentation for the realisation of the construction of the electricity transmission system of 400 kilovolts of voltage level, "Transbalkan corridor - the first phase". Article 2 of this Act states that the public interest is established on the basis of the drafts...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10958	Thank you. You've wasted your time with the MPs' group.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10959	It would probably be the minister to hear this question about the expropriation...
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10960	Thank you. You've wasted your time with the MPs' group. Thank you. The word is Susana Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10961	The President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, it is obvious that there is a need to comply with European regulations and practices has shown that new, or updated or amended legal solutions need to be reached in certain areas, which is why today we are also discussing this set of economic laws. I will remain in my discussion at the draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act. In Serbia, it was sometimes possible for only foreign investment funds that could operate, trade on the market and participate in privatisations, unlike domestic funds that were banned. The Investment Funds Act, which was adopted in 2006, amended and the law stipulates that there are three types of investment funds – closed, open and private, and that investment funds are managed by investment funds management companies. Otherwise, investment funds in the world are one of the most popular ways to invest money with a number of advantages, especially in the sense that investment funds represent professional investment management, then diversity as an opportunity to invest money and liquidity as a major advantage of investment in funds, because money is never captured in this way. The proposed amendments and additions to the existing investment fund law relate to one part to the harmonisation of the existing law with the European Parliament's directive and the 2009 Council, as well as to the terminology of the Business Society Act, the Capital Market Act, the new Privatisation Act and other laws, and also to one part to the increase in investment opportunities for investment funds and greater investor protection. I think that one area that is related, or a kind of investment fund that is important for Serbia's economy, could be more detailedly regulated by the bill and which no one mentioned today, and so on. ‘real estate funds’. You certainly know that in July of this year, an initiative aimed at creating adequate regulatory conditions for the establishment and operation of real estate funds in Serbia was organised by the association of Serbian financial analysts. The Investment Funds Act, i.e. sublegal regulations, recognises real estate investment funds in the form of closed investment funds investing in immovable property. Otherwise, the law stipulates that closed investment funds can invest in real estate in buildings in special parts of buildings in business rooms in apartments etc. 20% of the total assets the fund has. Unfortunately, in Serbia, there is no investment fund dedicated to real estate and regulated under our laws. The existence of such funds in Serbia would mean a great deal to develop and revive the real estate sector on liquidity and transparency of the real estate market. Our market is ready for this kind of fund which is otherwise a special type of investment funds that invest most of their assets in real estate and real estate projects. In order to revive this type of investment funds in Serbia, adequate legal frameworks should be created for their establishment and business. The current tax policy does not contribute to the business of investment real-estate funds, as these funds are formed as legal entities and have an obligation to pay income tax on the basis of their business. The other parties, shareholders, the participants of these funds, are obliged to pay double taxes. They are obliged to pay dividend-level taxes, which are not burdened by natural persons, immovable property owners, so they are in a more unfavourable position than shareholders of these funds. The experiences of countries in Europe and the world, which previously started to use this kind of fund, are very positive and most of these funds invest in commercial properties, hotels, business spaces, but there are also those funds that invest in, for example, agricultural land. Also, these funds are also the possibility of investment for institutional investors, insurance companies and pension funds, but they are, on the other hand, the possibility of attracting domestic and foreign investors. This I ask you only to consider as a well-intentioned suggestion which, I repeat, will have a positive impact on the market and the real estate sector, but also, for example, for better tax on real estate taxes, etc. As a good change of law, it is also envisaged that the amount of money provided for to start an open fund is reduced to 125,000 euros, or to 200,000 euros, as foreseen so far. Given the financial crisis and the reduction in the value of the assets managed, this change will contribute to facilitating, establishing and operating funds. You know for a fact that there are public opinion that the procedure for setting up funds is massive and that there are too many restrictions. We have heard from the minister today that the aim of these amendments is to supplement the law to facilitate and make the business of funds cheaper. Perhaps, of course, if possible, this procedure should have been simplified, as it may have been possible for foreign investment funds to manage funds from abroad because they would find it difficult to adapt their business to our domestic legislation. We know that an efficient financial market can be achieved by appropriate laws that affect the creation of a more favourable business environment, since our strategic goal is to join the EU. The regulation applicable in EU countries should also be a guideline for our legislation when it comes to this area. In Serbia, investment funds started to develop since 2007, when the stock market was at its peak, when it had the highest value. At that time, a large number of newly established funds bought shares, but unfortunately, after that, a very fast economic crisis occurred that significantly reduced the value of the shares, which led to a fall, i.e. a loss of much of the assets of the funds, and it was bad marketing for all those who were potentially interested in buying investment units. Many investors withdrew their stakes, sold investment units, which further reduced the assets of investment funds. After everything that happened on the stock market, cash funds dominate Serbia. The collected funds are mostly placed in bonds, bank deposits, and unfortunately not in actions. At present, we have a small number of domestic funds, and even those who exist, have very little property and therefore are negligible in world flows. In general, the economic situation is difficult and requires reform of the economic system, but there are things that can trigger the development of investment funds with us as well. First of all, we need to restore the trust that has been lifted by investors, make it through legal frameworks and regulation that through income funds show that there is a good way to invest money through the diversity of placements, through the development of markets, bonds, etc., and all in order to establish a larger number of investment funds, because this would lead to the development of the capital market, to strengthen competition among investors and to strengthen the overall economic development. Also, the development of investment funds and the work of citizens' information on the benefits and benefits of investment in funds would contribute to the fact that our workers, for example, who have received actions in companies where they have worked, do not cash in on-the-spot actions for some small money that they have just spent on some of the current needs, but to be informed, that investing these actions in investment funds would affect the value of these actions, while increasing their assets. We're estimated to have over 250,000 shareholders. If they are allowed to invest their actions in investment funds, the importance and functioning of the funds will increase significantly. The conclusion could be that it is necessary to increase investment funds' participation in the development of the economy, but above all, conditions should be created through favourable legal solutions for investors, through harmonisation of laws with EU laws, by encouraging the development of the financial market and by a number of other measures that will bring stability into the economic environment. This proposal to amend and supplement the Investment Funds Act is only one step in a series of necessary but certainly good steps. The SPS parliamentary group, as authorised representative Dejan Radenkovic said, will support the bill in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10962	Thank you. The word has a national MP Ivana Stojljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10963	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers and Guests, ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly refer to the very provisions of the first two laws, the Law on the Privatisation Agency and the Law on the Right to Free Action and Money Compensation, which citizens are making in the privatisation process, particularly because it is necessary to harmonise the provisions of these laws with the provisions of the Privatisation Act, which has recently entered into force. The proposed Act on the Agency extends its powers. The main task of the Agency is to promote and carry out the control of the privatisation process, and from now on it also performs the operations of the launch and control of the liquidation. Privatisation operations are no longer in the Agency's jurisdiction, but only to submit a proposal to launch bankruptcy proceedings to end privatisation. Another major change that concerns these two laws that I have mentioned is that the Fund's actions will not be included in the securities market of value, which was the original idea. Trade in stock stocks during the previous period was prevented by legal obstacles and the high cost of brokerage and stock exchange services. As for the free shares themselves, as before, the money collected by the sale of the Fund's assets will be paid to citizens on current accounts contained in the privatisation agency's register. The procedure for obtaining free shares and cash compensation is completely free of charge, which is important for citizens and everyone gets the same number of shares of each company and equal cash compensation. All these legislative solutions should allow for greater interest of potential investors and customers and a greater number of privatisations. I'd like to refer to the remarks we've heard. The minister said that after a large number of letters of interest arrived, there is a small number of those who are a serious offer. I don't see any harm in it personally. I believe that this government has raised criteria for potential investors and that is precisely the reason, because the aim is for investors to adhere to the Privatisation Act, to prevent illegalities and abuses. I'm sure there's been this before so we don't have a lot of bad privatisations in almost every city today. Just to remind you, in September of this year, the Privatisation Agency issued calls for the privatisation of 502 companies. The bids came in by about 80% of these companies, and the bidders were most interested in agriculture, processing and information enterprises, namely the media, and the most local media. What is important is that companies that do not receive letters of interest, and if privatisation is shown not to be realistic, after payment of the social programme go under bankruptcy or liquidation. It is also important to say that the largest number of offers came from our businessmen, then there are interested among the Germans, Americans, Bulgarians, Russians, British. The metal sector companies have a great chance of privatization, despite the fact that they are outdated technologies and being over-indebted, also have a high value of assets and have a high quality workforce. During the privatisation of the company, i.e. the media, the future owner undertakes to continue the same activity over the next five years. I just mentioned some of the characteristics of the privatisation. The conclusion is that for the agricultural, processing and metal industry there are the best chances for good privatisation and what is very important is that after 20 years finally a solution has been found for both the FAP and the criticisms we heard about the delaying deadlines, it is precisely because there were obstructions and the desire for the investor not to invest in the coastal FAP. By the end of the year, good solutions are expected for chemical complex factories, including "Azotara" and "Petrochemia" and "Zelezara Smederevo". I only mentioned these companies for reasons because they are significant holders of our domestic production. Successful privatisation and strengthening the economy and, above all, the preservation of these jobs are the strategic objectives of this government and is being worked intensively. As for point 4 of these laws, the Law establishing public interest to realize the construction of the trans-Balkan first-stage corridor, I want to say, or we heard from the minister, I will repeat because of the public that the capacity of the energy system is limited, which is why additional amounts of electricity are needed. Regional co-operation is very important in this regard, and therefore the trans-Balkan corridor will give new interconnections within the country and with our neighbouring countries, which will ensure regular supply of electricity to Serbian citizens. I'd also like to look back on the controversy surrounding the construction of a power line in Vinci. I just want to say that there is no accurate information that the government is not interested in this problem, because this problem, that is to say, the construction of a power line above residential facilities, even the Assembly committees, in particular the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, which asked the competent institutions to deliver all relevant data, to come out to the scene, to see what is the actual situation. Although there were gaps, we heard that in 2010, when a study on environmental impact assessment was given, and the fact is that this government did not give it, but now some problems have to be solved during that period, so no complaints and demands from citizens have been deafened either by EMS or by the "Electro Network of Serbia", or by the competent ministry. It's really about getting rid of the problem. Where there is a possibility that the facilities are close, the highest possible level rises, so we are sure that this problem will also be solved in the interest of the health of the citizens of Vinci, especially those of the youngest in schools and kindergartens. I still want to say that the SNS will support all these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10964	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10965	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today I will talk about the law on amendments and additions to the Investment Funds Act, but in order for my presentation to be more understandable, first of all I will refer to the very concept of the Investment Fund. Investment funds are collective investment institutions where funds are raised from natural and legal persons, with the collection of money from the investment fund investing in different types of assets, all in order to achieve profits and reduce the risk of investment. Investments in the investment fund enables citizens, i.e. natural and legal persons to participate actively in the capital market and, more importantly, the risks of investment are low, as the funds are managed by experienced and authorised experts. The advantage of investing in an investment fund is that at any moment you can withdraw your funds and contributions that you can make by investing in such a fund is usually higher than the contribution you would make by investing in some conventional form of savings. Why was it necessary to amend the Investment Funds Act? First of all, one of the reasons is that the capital market has changed significantly from law-making to amendments to the law, mainly due to the financial crisis, where the situation and conditions for the operation of the investment fund management company have deteriorated and the reduction of their income, so that these changes are aimed at encouraging the development of the capital market and greater investment in investment funds. Also, since the adoption of the first law, there have been significant changes in other laws that regulate the area, i.e. the matter of the capital market and even 25 laws, so we have in fact brought these amendments into line with these laws. How important this law speaks of the fact that as many as 26 institutions were involved in the creation of these changes, of which 10 private sector institutions and three foreign consultants as the FIC, as the Council of Foreign Investors of USAID. This tells us that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has really taken care of the real needs of participants in the capital market and the creation of changes to the law that will help improve market conditions and increase investment funds' income. What are the most significant amendments to the law on changes and additions to the Investment Funds Act? First of all, one of the most significant changes is the reduction of the amount of capital needed to set up an investment fund management company from 200,000 to 125,000 euros, all in order to facilitate business and stimulate the establishment of such companies. The company's liabilities to manage investment funds have been reduced in the sense that the company is now obliged to deliver only half-yearly reports to the Securities Commission, and not quarterly reports, as it has so far seemed, resulting in additional costs. The amendments to the laws provide for changes that increase financial security in the capital market and provide that the Securities Commission draws up a list of auditors that can carry out the audit of management companies, which practically puts this segment under the control of state authorities and prevents abuses. As regards financial security for users, i.e. investors in investment funds, changes in laws introduce a management company's obligation to establish a risk management system, which implies an accurate and independent assessment of the value of derivatives, as well as a provision for investment in derivatives, such as for example. the fund contract, in which we have pre-arranged purchases of certain items, protects investors by making investments in this case only if the fund has sufficient assets at the moment of the investment, which can cover any obligations arising from such transactions. The amendments to the law are more precisely defined and elements of the prospectus of the investment fund, all for reasons of protecting and raising investment security levels for investors. Also, the existing amendments to the law are in line with the EU directive, fulfilling our country's obligation to comply with EU legislation. What have Serbian citizens received from new amendments and additions to the Investment Funds Act? They have received a new and modern law, which is in line with existing laws and sublaws that regulate the capital market area, a law that is in line with EU directives and, perhaps most importantly, a law that is made up in agreement with, as I said, 26 institutions, of which even 10 from the private sector and which, as such, will certainly contribute to the improvement of the market, i.e. the situation in the capital market in Serbia, and thus run Serbia's economy. For these very reasons, I will vote for this law, and I suggest you do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10966	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10967	Dear Vice President, Mr. Arsic, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought I was talking about all three laws, but I'll give up. However, I would like to say a few sentences about this law that speaks of the trans-Balkan corridor, the first stage, for the reason that the strategic future of each country will determine energy, food and water. Since I do not want to talk about this law, it would be better to talk about how much food affects the future strategy my friend Marijan Risticevic has spoken, because he is more professional than me and his colleague by profession, Kalemar, a farmer, who is famous for plowing the vine on grass and taking 503,000 euros from Serbia's budget. Therefore, I will give up on this, but let me quote our Serbian, but the world's Nikola Tesla, who once said, quote - the development and wealth of one city, the success of one nation, the progress of the entire human race are strictly defined by energy available for use. So I don't want to talk about this law any further. There's something I'd like to say about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Privatisation Agency. As you know, the privatisation process began in Serbia in 1989, exactly 25 years ago, Mr. Minister, by passing the SFRJ social capital law. The basic privatisation models under the then applicable law were capitalisation and sales, and later payment of earnings in shares. The Republic of Serbia began in 1990 to apply the Republic Law on conditions and the process of transforming society into other forms of property. The basic models of this law remain the same. So, capitalisation and sales are being introduced, but business sales are being introduced as a whole and companies are being leased. In the period from 1991 to 1993, there is a social slowdown in privatisation, in particular 134 enterprises, and there is parallel to turning social property into state property under the Law on Public Enterprises in the form of large infrastructure. In the first place, I mean EPS, JAT, ZTP, PTT and others. In 1994, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Terms and Procedures of Conversion into other forms of property is adopted. As you know, the result of that law was to stop privatisation and restore the structure of capital in an economy with dominant social property. Between 1994 and 1997 privatisation was essentially not carried out. It is only 1997 that Serbia passed the Law on its own transformation, and in the period from 2001 to 2012 the former regime carried out privatisation without an economic strategy for the development of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it wasn't an accident. The former regime has not placed Serbian interest in the centre of its operation for 10 to 12 years, ladies and gentlemen. Let me say a few sentences about that. Privatisation of the banking sector and the handover of the banking sector to foreigners were essentially the handover of various economic leverages to foreigners. The concept of privatisation applied in 2001 led to the sale of all companies that had their profitability in the Republic of Serbia market or had previously been placed on a foreign market. That's what I mean by tobacco companies, cement companies, Telekom, banks, pharmaceuticals, trade and beer industry. The former regime sold everything they could manage themselves and that would leave a surplus of battery. That way the former regime destroyed our economic past, destroyed our present, destroyed our children's future, and if they had stayed in power for another year, they would have destroyed our roots. The former regime has conducted a criminal, robbery privatisation with catastrophic consequences for the economy of the Republic of Serbia and our entire society. Most of the privatisation was about the destruction of social property and the seizing of building land by those behind which suspicious capital stood. The new owners took large loans from banks, instead of investing in the development of businesses and the growth of basic activity, they pulled it through the offshore company and led the companies and workers of the Republic of Serbia to collapse. The absence of state control in the previous period of the former regime has created an environment for the emergence of criminal actions, including illegal capital extraction and money laundering. The exchange of corruption and abuses was such that Serbia had to cancel 622 of the 2,081 privatisations made. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, in his extensive exhibition of 20 April this year, said on page 19 that the Government of the Republic of Serbia would pass a new law on privatisation that would be presented with privatisation, made it more transparent and ended the corruption practice of privatisation. As you know, the law was passed in record time and privatisation was presented by the end of this year. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that's what Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party do, according to the system -- saidly. A public call on privatisation came in 1,732 bids for 403 companies. The largest number of bids for fallen enterprises in the former regime were made by businessmen from Serbia, but 72 offers from Germany, 32 from the United States, 34 from Bulgaria and 26 from Russia and 21 from the UK. The number of bids arrived is very surprising to us in a pleasant way, as it says the Republic of Serbia is attractive to investors. There are companies that have applied for the purchase of parts of the property, companies that are interested in the strategic partnership, but there are also those who are interested in working and investing. Since the deadline, September 15, 2014, has passed, the Privatisation Agency will propose within 45 days to the resolution ministry that companies will go bankrupt. This government, headed by Alexander Vukic, has passed a new Privatisation Act, because it was impossible, ladies and gentlemen, to effectively end the privatisation process for 584 entities within the legal deadline and according to the former regime's models. It is the new law that will enable more interest of potential investors and strategic partners who would be willing to participate in the privatisation of remaining social and public capital in the property of privatisation entities. Furthermore, this law allows the privatisation process to be made more efficient, more transparent, more suitable unique models and privatisation methods. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, respected Serbian citizens, the government of the Republic of Serbia, assisted by Serbian state president Tomislav Nikolic, has gained political strength and has made a reform programme for Serbia's modernisation, which means the root reform of the system where the economy will be a master and a servant's policy. In order to achieve this, the mob's base of such relations will be destroyed. That's guaranteed by this government. Despite the daily personal and family provocations of Mr Alexander Vukic, we SNS MPs and most Serbian citizens are giving him full support to the modernisation of Serbia, and we know that he will, because we know how much he loves his country, because it is in the interest of both our children and all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10968	The word has a folk MP, Mirjana Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10969	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, at today's session are very important four draft laws on amendments and additions, but I will base my exposure only on changes and additions concerning the Privatisation Agency. It is clear to all of us that this Agency has existed for 14 years, has been working and transforming its activities, and all of this is in line with the new laws and is suffering certain changes. The new legislative solutions prescribed by the Privatisation Act should allow for the greater interest of potential investors and strategic partners in order to be willing to participate in the privatisation of remaining social and public capital. The data we own from the Privatisation Agency is that 2284 companies have been sold since 2001 and 644 privatisation contracts have been cancelled. So it is clear to all of us, and I have noticed that many MPs here, not only MPs of the majority, but also MPs of the opposition know and do not have any impressions that the Privatisation Agency has worked successfully. What I can say for my city, 44 companies were sold in Cačka in 2001, of which 26 collectives are working successfully today, and 19 companies are in bankruptcy. We have two companies that are in the restructuring process, it is a famous cutting tool factory and "Freedom" appliances. I would also like to use this opportunity, not to repeat what fellow Members have said so far, but to urge the Minister and his associates to do their best to help restructure these two collectives for a simple reason, because they are of great importance to our city, to get these two collective strategic partners and to successfully privatise for the simple reason that no serious investment has come in the city of Cacca for a long time. What I'd like you to say is that the town of Cachak has both material resources and human resources. The fact that there are 10634 collectives on unemployment records to this day makes it clear that from all these privatised companies, these new owners have taken all possible benefits, both material and human. The people who were out of their jobs were looking again for cover under the state's patronage, turning to the labour market. Of course, we have made huge efforts and have managed through financial compensation in some way to help these people overcome their situation, but it would mean a lot if we were to succeed at least these two collectives are successfully restructured and that in some way all of these collectives that are in bankruptcy are found by favourable customers. In voting day, I will certainly support this bill of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10970	The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10971	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, on today's agenda we have four draft laws that create new conditions in the package, a new environment for the development of the economy, for privatisation that will somehow try to save something that seemed impossible at first sight, and that is above all 584 businesses that have remained in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency that has been working for 14 years and which, unfortunately, manages to sell and destroy everything that could have been sold and ruined. They managed to bring the company, which produced the additional value of the device, to literally bring the Republic of Serbia's economy to the lowest branches in ten, twenty years. The privatisation process is unfortunately a problem that lasted and lasted for years and at this point this is the last chance to do something. These 584 companies, which remain owned by the Privatisation Agency, are in a very difficult state and are in fact the company's remains. It's a very difficult task to try to get the most out of this and literally bring companies back to life. It's not just business, it's new jobs. When it comes to privatisation, the truth is only one and the truth needs to be looked into the eyes. It is true that citizens are neither guilty nor obliged to lose their jobs and without businesses and without wages, without certified health books and literally without a future. It is impossible to find an explanation for such privatisations, because other than these 584 companies have a very large number of companies that have been sold, which have been destroyed, closed and introduced into the bankruptcy process. I can talk about my town of Sapac, where I come from, there are literally giants disappearing, and above all I mean the Chemical Industry Zorka, Jela, Nama, Shabac, "7. July", “Sava” and many others. It's impossible to determine who is everything and how responsible it is. Someone mentioned the question of responsibility during the day, I think the answer was best given by the citizens. They know very well who and how they privatised Serbia, or privatised businesses, and who in ten years managed to literally collapse Serbia's economy. It will be very difficult, not impossible to make changes. What's important to say is that the Privatisation Agency in this way, this Law on the Privatisation Agency creates conditions to try to in the simplest and most transparent and in the best possible way to do what can be done, which is to save from these 584 companies what is feasible and simple to preserve jobs and to revive this very difficult economy through these jobs. If through these other laws, where we have, among other things, a bill on amendments and additions to the Investment Funds Act, we do not find new ways of funding, that investors understand that in the Republic of Serbia, in the Government, there are responsible and serious associates in this Assembly, who, among other things, are of public interest and when it comes to privatisations, have no idea how someone cheats, but only remember how to do something for the benefit of citizens. I will point out how many members of the opposition in the O.R. are interested in debates on this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10972	Please go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10973	I'm going back to the dark. The word tycoons exist and the average Serb did not know what the word tycoons meant until privatisation began. That's right, if someone doesn't like it, I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. I will refer to the investment fund laws. Of course we should support them. Conditions are being created for the adoption of all those sublegal acts which will allow for the creation of an investment investment environment. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process creates the conditions for the state and citizens to make this link in the simplest way that citizens who have the right to money, in the simplest possible way to obtain those same funds. On behalf of both the SNS and its MPs, all these laws will be supported on our behalf. The Minister of Economy at this point may be the most ungrateful place in this government, we wish him every happiness, and we want him to endure on this path. For everything they need in these privatisation actions, they can rely on the MPs themselves, believe the MPs are the people who are in Serbia, who are on the ground and who can help the Ministry of Industry and the government themselves in carrying out the tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10974	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Just sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10975	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Despite the almost empty benches of some parliamentary groups of senior regimes, apparently they have better things to do, obviously they're not interested in this topic, but I think we should get back to the debate and keep it because it's important today's agenda points. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that I will support today's draft laws - a bill on amendments to the Law on the Privatisation Agency, a draft law amending and supplementing the law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process and a draft law amending and supplementing the Investment Funds Act. I would like to stress that I will support these proposals because they represent a continuation of the process of harmonising this legislation with recently adopted reform laws, and I am primarily referring to the Law on Privatisation. Positive effects of the new Privatisation Act recently adopted, which has recently entered into force, are expected at the most recent time where the need arises and the need to comply with the provisions of this law, the Privatisation Agency Act with the Privatisation Act in order to regulate this area, an area relating to the work, activity and competence of this body. As it has already been pointed out on several occasions, among other things, during the debate on the Privatisation Act proposal and during the debate that the essential reason is that it is precisely impossible to effectively end the privatisation process for the 584 remaining privatisation entities, it is important that we adopt these proposed solutions, which will effectively and effectively affect the better, better quality and more transparent privatisation process. What is the goal of these proposals? The aim is to end the privatisation process within the legally foreseen deadline by the end of next year, by the end of 2015 and end in the best possible way, in a way that would satisfy all participants in the privatisation process, i.e. to try in the best and most responsible way to correct everything that can be fixed right now in this area, in which we have found complete chaos, lawlessness and irresponsibility of catastrophic proportions. As the proposer pointed out in his own explanation, and with which I am personally, fully agreed, this proposed solution will allow increased interest of potential investors and strategic partners to participate in the privatisation process, remaining social and public capital and property of the privatisation entity, and that the adoption of these regulations will make the privatisation process more efficient and transparent by applying the envisaged models and methods. I don't want to use this opportunity to talk about the past, I don't want to talk about the responsibility of some representatives, some parties of the former regime for whose mandate and the concepts used in the people, such as "the robbery" of privatisation, such as "buzzaral" privatisation, sale or perhaps better said kidnapping of state property. They will already find themselves on the subject and are found today and during the debate, as well as Serbian citizens know who and how, and whose interests, and whose account he has managed and conducted such privatisation. What I think is most important at the end of this moment is that the effects of these solutions will affect the creation of better conditions for the development of the economy, the improvement of the investment climate, i.e. improving the environment for attracting foreign investors, leading in itself to new jobs, better economies, etc. Finally, a full stabilisation of Serbia's macroeconomic environment. Mr. Sertic, I want this opportunity to give you full support and announce that I will vote in favour of these proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10976	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10977	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, I will refer only to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privatisation Agency and I will talk about it a little bit. Discussing the debates of opposition MPs gives the impression that these are some cosmetic changes on amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act but they are not, because they are essential. They are for those who won't accept anything that will contribute to the development of the country and that their best, most comprehensive and thus behave, and the results of their work in 12 years we'll be blinking and citizens, and all of us for a long and long time. But this government headed by Alexander Vukic intends to change the minds of all those people and factors who decide Serbia's fate in a positive sense by making amendments to the law and law. On this road, no one will stop him or this divided opposition because it has the support of all SNS members and 51% of Serbia's citizens. As regards the legal and constitutional basis on amendments and additions to the Law on the Privatisation Agency, see Article 97, paragraph 6. Serbia's constitution, so there's no dilemma. There may still be some MPs in the opposition. When we look at the statistics, we'll see that they're catastrophic in the previous period, as the Privatisation Agency shows them. Out of 1,400 privatised enterprises, 346 companies broke up by the end of 2011, and 537 companies were not privatised. On the day of the preparation of the Privatisation Act 153 companies are in restructuring, and 419 are in various forms of the privatisation process. However, according to statistics, unprivatised companies are making huge losses and their total value has been reduced by more than 20%, while the privatised, probably not all businesses, have a growth in assets. That means they're stagnating or they're deep down. In order to change this, changes to the Law on the Privatisation Agency are necessary and not only that. We need to change our consciousness first and seek the responsibility of all those who do not do business positively regardless of whether they are public or public utility companies. It should insist on the exchangeability of people who are not doing well, who are holding back our government and president in order to make Serbia's citizens live better, and this will happen and reflect in a short time from two to three years until all these laws and prime ministers put forward in the exposé of our intentions. I call on the statistics that I believe, in the period from 1995 to now before the Economic Court, 5,028 bankruptcy proceedings were launched, and by the end of 2013, there are 2,168 active bankruptcys, and these proceedings take years. Let what lasts, but the end of the trial lose value. It's just that these companies are gone and all thanks to the bankruptcy managers with the license. I guess they learned well when they put up for the license to run long-term bankruptcy, destroy the company, and they get rich. More specifically, all laws are good, but people who enforce laws, honor exceptions, are not good. It happens that one manager runs 10 bankruptcy companies. I wonder how these companies can be run by one manager and that according to the bankruptcy law, it's good? These amendments to the Law on the Privatisation Agency create conditions to regulate the amended powers of the Privatisation Agency would no longer play a role as bankruptcy managers but would be representatives of creditors in the bankruptcy and privatisation process. In the bankruptcy process of economic supervision of the business of the bankruptcy manager, the agency would be understood by the public, so that trustees get the opportunity to be informed. In the bankruptcy procedure, the Privatisation Agency took part in the bankruptcy process and the privatisation process so that 153 restructure companies would be completed and 419 enterprises would be privatised during 2014. The Agency should ensure that more subsidies are granted to these undertakings in 2015. It is estimated that the state is spending $750m, which means we would save so much budget funding, so the conditions for a successful privatisation and restructuring process are to be implemented, all these laws that would aim at that goal should be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10978	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10979	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, members of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, is ahead of us a set of laws, and I will talk briefly about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agency for Privatisation. There's been a lot of talk today about this law, but it's not the worst thing to do again. So, first of all, the amendments and additions to this law are necessary for a number of reasons. The new Privatisation Act, which recently came into force, requires adequate follow-up regulations to enable it to be implemented, and thus these amendments and additions are designed to improve existing solutions, to remove the concerns observed during practical application to remove legal provisions that have proved to be unmatched under the circumstances, but to offer some new solutions that follow trends in this area. In this way, these amendments and additions to the Law allow for the privatisation of hundreds of companies in the right and legal way with as little loss as possible for both the state and the citizens. I feel free to say that the agony called privatisation in Serbia has been taking too long, for the last 15 years, many times and in several ways. We are aware of the results achieved by such work, and today we face these problems, primarily through a great burden on the budget, but with many employees in these companies whose destiny is difficult and uncertain. The Privatisation Agency has been given great authority and is really expected to do so much. The agency has been tasked with launching business liquidation procedures, although I think and believe that such cases will be very small, and that it is mainly enterprises that are not insolvency-free, but also the task of course has the Agency to launch bankruptcy for companies that are found to have no future, i.e.. I can't stand on my feet. Also, new legal solutions are foreseen that the Agency no longer has the exclusive right to determine the privatisation model. More colleagues talked about it, so far it has been a practice, but only to make a proposal, and the practical ministry in charge of the economy decides which privatisation model will be implemented. I think this solution is much better than the practice so far, because things are going to be much clearer, faster and simpler. Of course, we all expect new investors, potential buyers of our fallen gigans, or strategic partners who are interested in investing in our country and our economy. In this respect, the amendments and additions of this law aim to make the seas of these regulations more simple and accessible to future foreign partners, but also to make any privatisation process public and transparent without the possibility of any abuse. I would propose to all parliamentary groups, to vote for these amendments and amendments to the law, and, of course, the SNS parliamentary group, in the voting day, will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10980	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10981	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, will talk about the proposal for a law on the Privatisation Agency. I could do with the other bill proposals, but because of this interesting proposal, I want to talk about him. The proposal was made by the Government, and I think this is the only real solution because in the previous period we may be a month and a half ago, more specifically on 13 August, the Privatisation Act began to apply, so that we could complete privatisation for all those 584 privatisation entities, we must now also vote on this proposal for a law on the Privatisation Agency. We can go back a little bit, maybe a dozen, or 14 years back when privatisations were made and when the Privatisation Agency had to do its job much more seriously, and the results were visible. A large number of bad privatisations, and I also come from a beautiful municipality of Srlig who had a large number of economic operators who employed more than 5,000 people. We were a developed municipality, but in the period from 2000 to almost 2012, the municipality of Srljig has a small number of companies, a small number of workers. We are one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia and that is all because bad privatisation has been done, and the Agency has not done its job. I can begin to count, a number of these privatisations, the first privatisation was made in 2001 that was unsuccessful. Normally, some of these large and strong private faces that they bought and took at the time, called "Foot". After that was another privatisation, the same failed, the electronic industry, the EI Svrlig, which produced speakers and was highly appreciated throughout Serbia, and later other privatisations because Svrljig was also recognizable by the textile industry. When those privatisations came, there was plenty of bankruptcy. In one of those bankruptcys, a company appeared, I'm not going to name it now, where this company took credit, and the guarantee for these loans was the Vojvodine Development Bank, which has been discussed for some time, about some things where the investigative authorities are already working. During these privatisations from 2000 to 2010, in one period of 2003 he was the director of privatisation, and later he was successful, under the name of the successful prime minister of the government, and we all know where the government led us. That is why the government headed by our Prime Minister Vlada Vukic, together with ministers, where he is now on the team and Minister Sertic, who is here with us, I am sure that by voting this law and other laws we will have the opportunity to solve the accumulated problems of all those people who have lost their jobs. I would now like to invite Minister Sertic to visit Svrlig in some future period. We have a small company there, it used to be "Krka", and later "Herbogal" that can't get out of trouble until today. Nobody works there, and we have the opportunity to hire more than a hundred people there. Personally, as a folk MP from the SNS list, I represent the United Peasant Party in the Serbian Assembly. We know that privatisation has also been done in various veterinary cells, where most of these privatisations have been unsuccessful, and where bad things happen, as far as health care is concerned, some infectious diseases that we have to solve in the best way, and all in the interest of our agricultural producers and citizens of our Serbia. Once again, privatisation was bad, the Agency was doing a bad job, but now, after voting these laws, we're going to have to finish the other entities, where there's no privatisation done. I am sure that once again, with our Prime Minister, with you and Minister Sertić, with you, I am sure that we will have the opportunity to solve problems and that our business entities, and it is very important and small poor municipalities such as the Srljig municipality to get jobs, and we can do this together, all of us and our SNS club where I belong and all of us who support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, our Prime Minister, and there are also citizens who have supported the previous elections. I will vote, normally for all these legislative proposals, and I am sure it will be much better for all the citizens of our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10982	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10983	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under this item of the agenda today a debate on four laws has been brought together. The first three laws were discussed by the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, and I will refer to the proposal for a law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and procurement of documentation for the realisation and construction of the electricity transmission system 400 kv voltage level "Transbalkan Corridor" – the first phase. This law as well as the Law establishing public interest in specific procedures of expropriation and obtaining documentation for the realisation and construction of a natural gas transport system "South Stream" which this Assembly adopted in February 2013 constitute a lex specialis in relation to the Expropriation Act. In addition to establishing public interest, it determines specific expropriation and procurement procedures for the implementation of the strategic project for the construction of a 400 kv power transmission system for the “Transbalkan Corridor” voltage level – the first phase. We all know the importance of infrastructure for the everyday life of every citizen of this country and everywhere, as well as for the work of business facilities, but also for attracting foreign investment, for investing, especially in the economy of our country. A stable, constant, reliable supply of electricity is one of the basic conditions, when it comes to infrastructure. There is no doubt the need to improve the infrastructure, in this case to improve the supply of electricity and build the "Transbalkan Corridor" across Serbia's territory, has been conditioned by the geographical position of our country and by the fact that Serbia's electricity system is connected to eight neighbouring countries, so the realisation of this project has three objectives – an increase in the security of electricity supply, the integration of renewable energy sources and the establishment of an internal electricity market on European soil. Our country's obligation to create conditions, to build a system, to transfer electricity to the "Transbalkan Corridor" of the first phase, stems from already signed international agreements and other documents. They are explained in detail and described, and I will only count them, this Assembly passed the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Italy, in co-operation, in the field of energy. Then an agreement was signed between the Federal Republic of Germany and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro in 2004, which regulates this matter. Then, in 2013 a document was signed in Temisvar, which is the basis for the continuation of the joint activities of both transmission system operators to prepare for the construction of a double 400 kilowatt interconnective power transmission system between the solution in Romania and Panchev, which is in Serbia, whose realisation is the beginning of the entire electricity transmission system and is part of the "Transbalkan Corridor" of the first phase, as well as of the contract for the formation of the energy community of Southeast European countries, which was signed in 2005 by both Serbia-Montenegro, BiH, Macedonia, Bulgaria, Romania, Albania and the provisional mission of the UN in Kosovo, which defines the market for electricity and natural gas. The bill sets out the public interest in expropriation, incomplete expropriation, administrative transfer and temporary takeover of immovable property, so that those who are not legal professions are made more clear, in order to obtain property rights, expropriation is carried out. For the purpose of obtaining the right of service to immovableity, incomplete expropriation shall be carried out. The temporary takeover of immovableity, in connection with the construction of the system, is limited to a maximum of five years. However, despite the reasons why this law was passed, I must say that there is doubt about the constitutionality of this text of the law. Namely, Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – guaranteeing the peaceful enjoyment of property and other property rights acquired under the law. The right of ownership may be withdrawn or restricted only in the public interest established under the law, with a fee which cannot be lower than the market. The law can limit the use of property. The confiscation or restriction of property, in order to make taxes and other charges or penalties, is permitted only in accordance with the law. The application of the provisions of this Act is affecting the rights guaranteed by that Article of the Constitution. For example, in Article 6. The draft law, among other things, states - the competent authority shall adopt a solution, without prior hearing of the parties, and in paragraph 4, says - against the solution made under the Expropriation Proposal, under the provisions of this law, an appeal which does not delay the execution of the solution may be made. It is then prescribed in Article 9 that the JPMS acquires the right to take possession of the immovable property expropriated in accordance with this law, at the end of seven days from the date of adoption of the solution, according to the proposal for expropriation, in accordance with the provisions of this law, which means that the user of the expropriation enters into the possession of the immovable property, before the eligibility of the expropriation and pre-determination solution, and particularly prior to payment of the fee for the exploited immovableity. As regards the compensation itself, there is nothing in this law to say about it except in Article 10(3) where, among other things, the JPMS is obliged to provide cash to pay compensation or another instrument to pay compensation, in accordance with the rules governing payment. This is a weak guarantee that the user of the expropriation has indeed provided funds and is willing to pay compensation for the exploited immovableity that must be at least at market value, as it says in the Constitution. There are no time limits to determine the fee, let alone the payment of the fee. In addition to the shortened deadlines for the handling of the competent authorities, the deadlines for parties in the procedure whose immovableities are exploited are also shortened, thus reducing their ability to protect their rights. Although the bill provides that the expropriation will be carried out on the basis of a spatial plan, a specific purpose area, based on a detailed regulation plan or an expropriation elaboration embossed by the users of the expropriation, there is a huge lack and an objection in that sense that no elaborate has been made, that we do not have an analysis that the parcels will be covered, the number of parcels that will be covered by the expropriation, the value of the immovable property that will be expunged, the provision of funds for the payment of the compensation to the owners of exploited immovable property and of which the owners will be exploited immovableity. It's a huge shortage, and it's the very one that creates legal uncertainty for the immobilisers. Many families live on parcels, especially in rural areas. When it's taken away, they're threatened with existence. Of course, the public interest is always ahead of the individual, but these individual cases with the application of this law have a great deal to do and the state must have it in mind and must not ignore the property owners that will be exploited and who may be threatened by the existence. For these reasons, we believe that this text is not finished enough and is not good in some parts, but we will talk about it when the debate is in particular. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10984	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10985	First of all, I would like to thank the distinguished predecessor, the MP of the people, who obviously read the bill with great care and reason. We have tried to explain, and it seems to me that we agree that after a detailed reading of the arguments to get a picture of how important this project is and as an energy project, as a regional project that connects all countries in Eastern and Southeast Europe from the date of signing of the Treaty on the Creation of the Energy Community. The Energy Community was joined by both Ukraine and Moldova, now at the last meeting and Georgia, so it is a project that is truly of a broader regional importance, which, as I said, in its opening work should ensure that we have greater energy security and security and that we have a more seriously decorated system that needs to ensure that the current from Eastern Europe, i.e. from the north-east of Europe where it is far cheaper, across our country goes towards Western Europe and through this Serbia achieves more benefits. One of them is, of course, that transit tax, but the other is the fact that due to the crossover of all these corridors through Serbia, Serbia is really becoming a player in that energy sense, our companies are becoming, to say, a market place in one game, which will be extremely important and extremely important in years ahead. The 20th century is definitely a century in which energy will be top priority and no doubt access to energy and the ability to manage energy will be one of the most significant comparative advantages any state can have. Thus, the importance of this project and the place and role of Serbia in some future, which will belong to our children and in which our children will have a far better situation and position than we are today is our great obligation. I must, regarding these formal objections that you have made, to point out that I cannot agree with you that this bill is against the constitution, first of all, for the reason that this law is in accordance with the Constitution, it foresees two things. One thing is the declaration of public interest, which we do by adopting this law and another is a fee that is fair, which is marketable, which is in line with all those elements that provide for the Expropriation Act and all the positive regulations that treat that matter. I would call on you to the transitional and final provisions, that is, Article 16 which says, in everything that has not been done by this law, there will be a law on expropriation, so it is clear that this law is fully in line with the positive and legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with the Constitution, to define certain places in the whole process to be speeded up, of course not delegating the fact that it is necessary to take care of the private interests of citizens and to pay fairly what will be subject to expropriation. I will take this opportunity, regardless of my great desire to come to this assembly hall, as Minister of the Government of Serbia, do not politicise a single topic, but I must highlight a dose of surprises that I have related to certain tones in the discussion I have heard during the day. Starting with the fact that this legal project is essentially in all key elements almost identical to the legal solution that we have established public interest in the South Stream project. Today I was so surprised, I reiterated the discussion from individual MPs' groups that this same Assembly voted when it came to South Stream and I came to a fascinating fact that for the same law, it means identical law, the 176 MPs voted from almost all MPs' clubs, including 27 DS MPs. The only ones who didn't support, I repeat, an identical South Stream legal project, were LDP gentlemen. I absolutely respect and accept it and did not support it, did not participate in the vote of the LSDV. Then I have to ask myself a question – how is one legal project that we define to be involved in next to the Republic of Serbia, and one foreign company is good and it is possible to vote and not go out with objections about the constitutionality and quality of the solution and for the other project that the Republic of Serbia is doing, which is the sole owner of the project in question, we have these observations? Questions - why EMS? So the EMS has an exclusive right and only has a license to carry electricity at a high voltage of 400 kilowatts and it's perfectly logical and it's perfectly normal that only he can be the bearer of this project and in all the members who define who will be doing this project in phases writes EMS. Of course the EMS has no one else. It's his legal obligation and his legal place. My colleague Stefanovic, the only explanation I can give myself today is why today this law is controversial and in February 2013 it was a good fact that the previous Minister of Energy was more likable to you than I was, so today you have objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10986	Please, without speaking to the MPs personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10987	I apologize for your personal address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10988	I suppose Biljana Hasanovic Korac, a national MP, is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10989	Right on the line, and it could be the time of the parliamentary group, anyway. Make it a straight line, 'cause I want to answer some things. I don't think I get it. No doubt we agreed on a great deal of importance. The problem is, there's no labs, what I've listed, which I don't know which parcels, how many surfaces, of which owners. It creates legal uncertainty in people. As for "South Stream", that's why I mentioned the law. I took part in his adoption because I was an MP and because I've been here for the fourth term. We were colleagues, and I think we understand each other. I don't make a difference who the minister is, and I respect you as an ex-collar and current minister. We've had some objections back then, and I've been discussing it, and I can tell you that we've made a few amendments. Three amendments were then adopted. This law, however, is more detailed as regards the protection of the rights of the immobilisers to be distributed than this. I understand that it will apply to everything that is not regulated by the Expropriation Act, but remains that the user of the expropriation will enter into possession within seven days of the adoption of the solution and on the compensation – on this-on this. That's what we're talking about. It is, however, an incursion in the rights guaranteed by Article 58. The Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10990	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, on what grounds? Mr. Secretary didn't mention you in a negative context, he just said that maybe his predecessor was more likable to you. [[Borislav Stefanovic, from place: Double replica.]] (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: It was also for the Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10991	Indeed, without intending to enter the polemics, you are equally nice to all of us, you in the regime, so cheerful, so skillful, while the state perishes. But the truth is, "South Stream", which we all voted for, is an international project whose conditions of expropriation are far more favourable and in accordance with the law that this Assembly has passed. You are well explained here, Minister, that the EMS, as a monopolies, is in possession without a copy of the plan and without having to pay. He'll just come in and take the plot and build a power line. What is more important, and you have not responded – not a single word about protecting human health and the environment. Unlike the pipes that welded there, when the president said, "Get started, you've waited a long time," this power line, scientists say, can cause cancer. Well, that doesn't say it in the lab, because we haven't even seen it. And it doesn't say in the proposal, find me where it says one word. When you are already making a comparison with the "South Stream", then make it all the way, and in terms of the advantage of expropriation, the protection of the owner of the plot and the third thing, human health and environmental protection, which is absolutely something that people and how interested they are, and not only money, but also whether their children will receive certain diseases that we have talked about in this Assembly. No one answered that. Neither EMS nor anyone answered that question. And don't compare the South Stream strategic project that doesn't radiate, Minister, and the radiating power line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10992	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10993	First of all, I have to remind myself that this project is a result of several international contracts that the Republic of Serbia has and de facto is our obligation, a project that is part of a regional policy of the energy community whose member and signator, so as such, regardless of what I see as a huge benefit for Serbia and for generations to come, this project is in some way and part of our obligations. On the other hand, I repeat, the segment of the law is expropriation, i.e. expropriation will certainly be carried out in accordance with the Expropriation Act, at fair price. I must say that, absolutely respecting the right of property, absolutely respecting the payoff of fair value which, without any dilemma, will be part of this project, on the other hand, I believe that there are all of those elements that protect citizens from any self-will, under the precepts of the state, state and our public enterprises. So it's going to be an estimate of fair value. Citizens have the right to accept it or complain and try to exercise the right to a higher price in administrative proceedings. The only thing they don't have and I'll always say they don't have is to stop their country from building significant infrastructure projects that represent public interest. At the very end, all the elements necessary for obtaining a building permit, including an elaborate, will be subject to review by the competent state authorities, so that no one intends to play with the life and health of Serbian citizens, so that I want first of all to assure the citizens of Serbia that all the competent state authorities will absolutely take care of all these elements that are key to the implementation of the project itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10994	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10995	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be in charge of the discussion after the minister's reply, so let's get this bill elaborated first. Would you please just tell me how much time I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10996	You have three minutes and 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10997	Thank you. At all, Minister, we do not dispute the need to build a power line. No one in this room is against it. We are talking about a way and we are talking about possible adverse consequences, especially according to the budget of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period, taking into account Articles 4 to 8. You said the route was arranged. It's okay. But this route, what the distinguished colleague of the predecessor insisted, was also to be supported by environmental protection data, environmental impact. It is not the same whether a power line will go through inaccessible areas and spend more money on the construction of power lines or go the shortest way, through you the most profitable parts, where the Expropriation Act will exempt the land that later, when the owners are sued, we will enter the disputes and pay the market value on what grounds you will assess the market value, and we will also pay the costs. The whole story today is about the incompleteness of the documents you presented to the Assembly, without accompanying documents on which colleagues insisted and interesting, so to say, since I am not a lawyer, members of the 4-7 who talk about the expropriation being carried out, that the law of the complaint does not delay the execution and seven days after the decision "Electro Network of Serbia" comes into possession and sets up columns. About whether the owner of the immovableity on whose land this pillar or that power line is set up to enter a slow unsatisfactory amount of compensation, the negative impact of electromagnetic radiation, this profession knows much better than I do, whether there will be some agricultural land on those cultures, and that should be done in an elaborate manner. That's what we've been talking about. So, possible damage, possible damage, since this is the country of Serbia, according to the budget when we enter court disputes for all these parcels where that path will pass. That was the basic question. What I still wanted to say for this minute is to amend the law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens make in the privatisation process, and right below is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Investment Funds Act. What was illogical to me was the contradiction of these two proposals, where, in one proposal, in the Investment Funds Bill, you potential, which is good, the formation of investment funds, because we know that in the country of Serbia in the funds, they are mixed types, about 50m euros. For example, the Republic of Croatia has over four billion euros in investment funds that have been invested. On the other hand, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the law on the right to free and cash benefits that citizens make in the privatisation process, argues that the original purpose of the legislator is to turn the fund into an open stock society, i.e. that the stock fund should continue to operate as a stock company, whose actions are not traded in an organised market of securities of value, i.e. to give up the original idea of trading on the stock market.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10998	Thank you. You're out of time. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u10999	I wanted to be on behalf of the parliamentary group, but, well, I'm going to use my right to an authorised representative of the SNS. Dear Ministers, today practically this set of laws shows that the Serbian government is on the path of economic reforms, shows that we are on the path of European integration and shows that we are leading one responsible energy policy, both for the region and for the EU, and first because of the benefits that Serbian citizens and each of us will have. Thank you for accepting to come here today, to explain to us all these difficult solutions that await us in the implementation itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u11000	Thank you. Mr Dejan Radenkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u11001	How much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u11002	Ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u11003	Nothing then, thank you. I thought I had more.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-10-21-0.u11004	According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
