ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-28-0.u797	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am opening the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. As you know, this special session I have called on the National Assembly to address its Excellency, Mrs Catherine Ashton, High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Policy and Security and Vice President of the European Commission. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the MPs, her Excellency Catherine Ashton, and I welcome, in addition to her, the other members of the delegation, his Excellency Michael Davenport, the head of the European Union delegation to Belgrade and Fernando Gentini, director of the Directorate for Western Europe, the Western Balkans and Turkey's European External Affairs Service. I welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. I also welcome the ambassadors of the member states of the European Union in Belgrade, as well as representatives of the European Union delegation to Belgrade, who are escorting this session from the Grand Hall gallery of the House of the National Assembly. Now I ask her Excellency, Mrs. Catherine Ashton, to take her word.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-28-0.u798	Mr. Prime Minister, Madam President of the Assembly, honourable MPs, thank you very much for a truly wonderful welcome today. It is my great honor to address you as MEPs in the new assembly of the Serbian Parliament, and that, behold, minors immediately after you received your mandates. I know you have an extremely important role to play during the duration of this call, during the duration of your mandate, to bring an end to the fundamental reform in your country. The scope of the new legislation that you will consider and which you will discuss I believe are unprecedented. Also, you will have a growing role to play in monitoring the adequate application of the laws you adopt. I wish you a lot of success in this work you'll be doing. When Prime Minister Vukic came to Brussels in January to start negotiations on joining the European Union for Serbia, he spoke very emotionally when he saw Serbia's flag beside other European Union member states and how he felt along with him and that this was the most important moment in Serbia's history after the end of World War II. Mr. Prime Minister, I think you were absolutely right to feel that way and to be so proud. Serbia is always part of Europe and now you will join us in the European Union, which is the beginning of a new chapter in our relations, chapters, honourable MPs, which we will write together. I know that there will be a lot of obstacles on the road that we need to overcome in order to achieve the goal, which is full membership in the European Union and it is therefore important that all the breaks that are represented in this House, so all parliamentary parties, share this common goal of joining the European Union. I also believe that you can be an example of others in the region and show them what can be achieved if it is worth doing, if you have the right leadership, but also by making some difficult decisions, and we can show that hard work, leadership and determination to make these difficult choices, difficult choices if they are recognised and recognised in the European Union, and also in the wider international community. There is no better proof of the successful relationship we have built together in recent years than the results you have achieved in normalising relations with Pristina. Believe me, I know as soon as I see what difficulties you have ahead of you to make the success that you have already achieved here, so I have to honor this, as well as the previous government for courage, political maturity and state-owned approach in dialogue with Pristina. Today, Serbia is praised everywhere for the political leadership you have shown in this dialogue, because you have become an inspiration to others in the region and beyond. Serbia is now a candidate country for EU accession, but you are also an important political partner. First of all, as I have already mentioned, you are very important in this region. Your contribution to better co-operation and improving relations with neighbours, I would say, is crucial to the stability of the entire Western Balkans. Now you're our partner in the accession process. I want to say that I am looking forward to your ever-increasing role as you will have in fostering inclusive and effective ties in the region, because I believe you can help deliver a significant contribution to Bosnia and Herzegovina coming out of the current political deadlock. I know it's high on the list of priorities and Mr. Prime Minister and his visits at the beginning of the term of office. Secondly, you have a very important role as a partner in promoting the common values of our good neighbourly policy and no doubt, our foreign policy in the neighborhood has been on many trials in the past four years, as never before, first in the south, dramatic changes in "Arab Spring" from Tunisia, through Egypt, Libya and Syria, and, of course, recently due to events in the east, in Ukraine. I am committed to bringing down tensions, to engage in a fundamental and comprehensive dialogue, to find a lasting solution and to make sure that a stable, prosperous and democratic future is brought forward for all citizens in Ukraine. Third, you are our partner with growing importance in the international arena of relations. I really congratulate you on your contribution, your EU-NAVFOR-ATALANTA military mission in the fight against pirates along the coast of Africa and your contribution to EU missions in Somalia, and we hope, soon, in Mali. Dear MPs, sometimes it seems to you like too faraway places, but security challenges are something that affects all of us, wherever they are, and we should work together to overcome them. In 2015, the Council adopted Serbia will take over the OSCE presidency, a clear signal of the international community's confidence in you and the role you will play there. Madam President of the Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable MPs, let me just say a few words about the EU accession process, which is actually the basis of our relations. You already know it's a very rigorous process and strict but fair conditions apply. That's the rule of the game. This means that we address some essential issues, above all, the values and principles on which the EU rests, which are strengthening true democratic society, respect for fundamental rights and freedom of expression. At the core of this whole accession process is the rule of law. Progress in this determines the speed of the accession process, EU accession in general, and provides respect for basic values and is good support to fundamentally democratic society. Hand in hand with the rule of law, there are current economic challenges that we all face in Europe. This means that the key emphasis should also be placed on economic governance, as well as on the development of competitiveness, on economic growth, in order to have sustainable development. Serbia wants a return from the crisis, as does the whole of Europe. These economic reforms will also help Serbia meet the economic criteria for EU accession, together with economy throughout the EU, to create new jobs and create better social conditions for all parts of society. As I have already said, dialogue with Pristina has already been a major success and comprehensive normalisation of relations is now a key element of Serbia's accession process, so we will continue with this dialogue. We will rely on an agreement reached on 19 April last year. We'll continue to apply and the normalisation process will move on. Of course, following the December 2013 resolution of this assembly, you have as Parliament an extremely important role in the process of accession as soon as possible. There is a valuable contribution from the congregation committees, so we look forward to being able to support you in this work. I had the opportunity to discuss these issues with the President of the Republic of Nikolic, the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister. It's the focus of our conversations all day. Let me tell you, honourable Members, that I am truly impressed by the high level of ambition that prevailed today among your officials and faith in the success of achieving these goals, the determination to achieve these goals as soon as possible and that these goals enjoy the support of the people of this country. Let me point out once again that we will support you with expert advice, that we will be with you at every step you take on that path. Dear MPs, when the process of European integration began more than half a century ago, many people suspected it could ever succeed, but I believe that the EU has just strengthened peace, security and prosperity and has become the world's largest integrated economic space and trade bloc. Six founding countries were at the beginning, and now there are 28. Why? Because they were drawn to the promise of mutual benefits that democracy and rule of law would have there, together with respect for the freedom of choice of sovereign nations. As Serbia now begins its own EU accession process, I congratulate you, alone and look forward to welcoming you as our partner in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2014-04-28-0.u799	I thank her Excellency. I am concluding the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014.
